ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members. There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 50, para. 5 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I make the following procedural proposal: the items on the agenda.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Please, voting mode. Vote 157 MPs: 137, against 3, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. Before we go any further, I'm going to read you a message: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that he has authorised by his own orders: 1. The implementation of a joint Bulgarian-Romanian-Canadian teaching on September 15th, back-up days 16, 17 and 18 September 2020. It will take place on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania with the participation of forces and means of the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria, Romania and Canada, aircraft with their crews and, if necessary, military, engineering technical staff with transport, equipment, equipment and no weapons to provide technical assistance and removal of aircraft in the territories, respectively of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania. The joint exercise is not related to the conduct of military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to the carrying out of activities to prevent military activities conducted by other (other State or organisation) armed forces. 2. The deployment of military personnel from the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria with weapons, equipment and equipment for participation in the multinational exercise between 14 and 27 September 2020 in the territory of Romania. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on Conduct and Participation in Teachings, the competent state authorities have been informed. The notifications were received on 8 and 9 September 2020, with entry number 003-09-67 and 003-09-68, and were made available to the Defence Committee. We'll continue with the reports from yesterday. Procedure? Mr. Mikhailov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! I ask you, when the voting procedure is carried out, to observe this House carefully. The architecture of this room is completely different. There was a whole group of representatives who could not vote, and I strongly state that, apart from the many misdeeds of the new House, this voting system is in an outrageous state and there must be measures to put an end to this. Please! This has been happening for many days in a row... [[Noise, lines from MP Mustafa Karadaye.]] Yeah, yeah. Not just with him, not just with him. Yeah, it's not him. I don't think he's the problem. The problem is this voting system, which is the old system, and it does not function adequately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u3	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Yeah, that's the old system we carried from the other room. It was tested at the beginning of the plenary session. We had the same problems at work in the other room. [[Noise and lines.]] There is a public procurement that is currently being appealed in court. We expect to continue the implementation of this order and in a few months to have a new voting system, microphones to talk to from place to place. I understand, but we're gonna take these inconveniences. In a few months, life and health, the system will be new. The Health Committee report will introduce us to Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law on Supplement to the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020, No 002-01-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 September 2020. At its extraordinary meeting on 9 September 2020, the Committee on Health examined and discussed the Draft Law on Supplement to the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020, No 002-01-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 September 2020. The meeting was attended by the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) Professor Petko Salchev and representatives of the word organizations in the field of health. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by Professor Salchev, who informed the MPs that this legislative initiative creates a legal possibility for unpaid hospital care activities outside the established monthly values for the past to be paid in the event of the failure of the NHIF budget for 2020 for these activities. According to the national data summarised in the NHIF information system, the value of the unpaid activity above the established values for 2015 amounted to 50 million. 253 thousand. BGN, with the value of the outstanding funds for principals in cases brought against the NHIF of 22 million. 443 thousand. BGN, for 2016 The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with 627 thousand. BGN 15 million, respectively 476 thousand. BGN, and for 2017 The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the 182 thousand. BGN 48 million, respectively 922,000. lv. As of 31 March 2018, the value of the unpaid activity above the established values amounted to 6 million. 392 thousand. BGN, with no data on NHIF funds paid for principal cases for this value. Prof. Salchev pointed out that the proposed additions will not have an impact on the NHIF budget, as the decision of the Supervisory Board on payment will be carried out within the framework of the means of health insurance payments for hospital care for 2020. It is envisaged that the outstanding funds under § 1 of the Transitional and Final Provisions for reported and carried out activities, in the event that the checks have not been completed, will be transferred to an account for foreign funds of the NHIF to serve as a source of funding in 2020 or 2021. In the course of the discussion, the MPs raised specific questions regarding the texts of some of the proposed provisions, uniting around the principle opinion that the regulatory changes in question are timely and should be adopted within a short period of time. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the Draft for Supplement to the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020, No 002-01-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 September 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mrs. Jaffer, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Parliamentary Group will support the proposed supplement to the National Health Insurance Fund Budget Act. We will support the proposed changes for nothing else, but for the people working in this system. They deserve to receive their money for an activity that has been carried out which has been reported and which is recognised by the Health Fund. However, my colleagues and I have come to think about what is the reason why you have been moved to take this step? We have hesitated on three such reasons: is this a recognition of the mistakes you have made over the past five years in terms of what is called a subliminal activity? That is hardly the reason, because experience shows that you have difficulty admitting mistakes. Is it because of the many court cases that the medical institutions have brought and some of them have already won? It is very likely that this has moved you to take this step. Is this your desire to please the people who protest to fight for the love of speech? It's very likely that's the real reason. Regardless of what caused you to make this change to pay up to 75 million unpaid costs in the health care system, it is clear that until two weeks ago you defended very stubbornly that this was the right decision that through administration you would be able to limit the costs in health care. Absolutely wrong statement! Today's decision is dictated by many wrong management decisions, dressed in the appropriate wrong legislative form. A little flashback. In 2005, the Supreme Administrative Court annulled part of the Anex signed under the National Framework Treaty. You took panic actions by trying to legalize this decision again through other documents. Absolutely wrong! Two thousand and fifteen years was the first year when you introduced these restrictions. This lasted 2016, 2017 and 2018. Meanwhile, many hospitals won these cases. The big question is: how many other than the principals are the accrued interest and the legal expenses to be covered? We can definitely say that today's decision is actually an out-of-court attempt to reach an agreement in order to avoid payment precisely of interest and costs. The money for the health insurance of Bulgarian citizens who are being spent by the Health Fund is to pay medical activities, but not expenses in court cases and interest rates. I hope you're aware of that! That is why we believe that we should return the debate on whether there should be limits in healthcare. What is this far - reaching work? To us, it also sounds unserious, and the argument that limits will continue to exist because there is no information system in healthcare. Why didn't you? The opposition within the framework of this Parliament has repeatedly provoked decisions and they have been adopted by the National Assembly. A decision to oblige health ministers to work intensively on the introduction of the legendary already single eHealth Health System. That is why we will support it with all the comments we have on this proposal, but we will continue to insist on dropping the limits. On the other hand, someone has to pay attention and someone has to say who will cover the costs that the National Health Insurance Fund will additionally bear. At present, over 155 million are funds that are not paid, which are due, which are accounted for. It turns out, however, that in cases with more than 50% on the principal, the costs of interest and legal fees are increased. This is damage that shows that with the harsh administration introduced by the government in which the Reformation bloc was involved, but the actions supported in this format of governance are absolutely wrong. We've applied for it repeatedly and this can be checked by the stenographic protocols. I conclude with a call to the heads of medical institutions: let these funds, which we will vote today within 75 million, go to raise the salaries of medical professionals, because they deserve with this exhaustion and in the fight against COVID-19! They expect this promotion and deserve it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u7	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jaffer. - What's the line? I can't see. First, Mr. Mihailov, and then you, Mr. Popovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! I'll start by saying that I'm solidarity with 70% with Dr. Jaffer's statement. It made some very serious findings, but I want to grieve it at the beginning of my speech that we believe that this 75 million cannot go to the Bulgarian doctors, to the Bulgarian nurses, to the Bulgarian nurses, to all who work in the health care system, because just a minute ago Dr. Ademov asked me how many are the duties of the hospitals at the moment. And you know very well that under current legislation, executive directors and hospital boards are obliged to address their creditors first upon receiving funds. Hospital duties are enormous. I don't want to quote them here. We have quoted them for almost four years in the Chamber of the National Assembly. That's the first one. The second thing I would like to say to my colleague and respected doctor Dr. Ivanov is that these measures, which he reported as timely, are not timely at all. They come at the end of the term, in a period where we know how much tension there is in society. I absolutely agree in this respect that this is done only to suppress some of the tensions, but this is absolutely unsuccessful. It's quite formal. Moreover, the funds that are being made available at the moment with this decision will not be far enough to cover the necessary needs of hospitals, not only in terms of changing the salaries of the medical staff, but at all in terms of their sad state of being. This morning I was very sad to see a municipal hospital having a word with a sister. But I would like, Madam President, here for the next time to share with you something that makes me very uncomfortable, bitter impression that when management decisions are made at Parliament level, they must be very carefully tailored to the specifics of the situation in the country. I will tell you a fact that you are not obliged to understand in the aspect of your professional training, but you should understand it as a statesman. We're in an emergency situation. The funds that are going now and will start from here until the end of the year, as it is expected, naturally, to increase the number of respiratory infections in the autumn, I do not want all these facts to be put in one after the other. A month ago, two months ago, the organization of general practitioners and many specialists in the country asked what was going on in this emergency environment with the research of patients who are questionable about the popular already, as the word here said. She's gonna be legendary in the end with everything that's happened to her, and this bubble that's blowing up a species of infection? And so far, we have no clarity. There was an analysis of the current situation on the website of the organization of general practitioners. There was a figure of 60 million. BGN, that a minimum is necessary for the studies of patients. And all of this now with a single solution, which in quotes is timely, we are trying to cover this whole situation, however unprepared the system is right now, as many holes as there are in it. I just don't want to comment on them here in front of you, as the honourable Chamber is not obliged to go into such details and be acquainted with them. These are currently many operational situations that can, however, be resolved with state-owned decisions. Such decisions are missing, Madam President, and today's vote, although we will formally support, as it is about the release of funds in healthcare, it is not a timely and real state-of-the-art solution. It's a piece-by-piece solution. This is a solution in a system that is rigid, in which huge funds are poured for Bulgaria.. 5 billion from the pockets of citizens and 5 billion from the state that does not function normally for the interest of the Bulgarian nation. Therefore, I call on you, however many hours we may have left here, however many days we may have left the debate to be really fruitful, to be constructive, and not to be flooded with thorny, timely solutions in quotes, which practically do nothing to help, in this case and in Bulgarian healthcare. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u9	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. - What's the line? I can't see.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u10	For a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u11	For a personal explanation, please, Mr. Ivanov. Then Mr. Popovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u12	Mrs. Chairman! Dear colleague Mikhailov, yes, mistakes have been made. Certainly everyone here who is involved in health care knows very well that they are, how to say, consistent mistakes from which we are trying to escape and learn. One of the things that I would like to address to you and say is that from the outstanding funds, which are 150 million, you see that at this point almost one second of them are paying off When you say that you are acting on a piece, I also cannot agree, as you well know that the clinical pathways, which are currently actually thanks to the savings funds, will be increased, including the CIVID path, so the piece I would not agree with. Yes, one of the main gaps that we can account for is the lack of an electronic system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Popovski, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u14	Madam President, honourable Members! Today, with this law, really half the amount the National Health Insurance Fund owes to the hospitals will be paid off, which is a breath of air for the health care of Bulgaria, mainly the large state hospitals that have accumulated these limits. Another question is why they piled them up. Because large public hospitals cannot in any way return a patient as opposed to smaller municipal hospitals, unlike private hospitals, who can afford the luxury of 25th when they reach the limit, four or five days to work with reduced capacity. All of this is from some laws adopted by the Ministry and the National Health Insurance Fund adopted in the last 20 years, and can not be blamed for not taking measures, because we know that the number of 360 hospitals in seven million Bulgaria is a liberal system that allows all newly opened hospitals to enter into a contract with the National Health Insurance Fund, leads to this circulus vitiosus, where the money of the Health Insurance Fund does not reach to cover all the health needs of the clinical pathways of the hospitals concerned. Did this global pandemic with the COVID-19 really have to come, to save some money from the National Fund's budget to solve a problem since 2015? 2016? The hospital where I work for 30 years in Pleven, after today's vote on this law, will receive 1 million in those years, but for 2017, 2018, 2019 the University Hospital in Pleven is waiting for another million and a half, which have not been paid out in the last three years. So I appeal to the new minister and the new governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, within these two months, while we vote on the new budget for 2020, to come up with such rules that we can get out of this Circulus visiosus and the big state hospitals, which, among other things, also take the main care of the Bulgarian population on COVID-19, have no limits or work in such a way that they do not accumulate them. So the group of the United Patriarchs, as the people say, will vote today with two hands, but we expect within these two months to the new budget and the new rules of the two departments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Popovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u16	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u17	Mrs. Jaffer, come in for a line. For the second line, Mr. Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u18	Dear Dr. Popovski, I do not know what vicious, vital, deadly circle you are talking about, but do you realize that you too, with your voice as part of this ruling majority in 2018, in the notorious transitional and final provisions you voted not in the Act on the Budget of the Health Insurance Fund, not in the LDC, because the court had already attacked these texts, but in the Health Insurance Act, to adopt a text for which you have persistently insisted and which has made it so that after this period no activity can be paid at all? So I think that you are part of these decisions that have been made, and I repeat again the wrong management decisions that you have been putting into the proper legislative form. It's nice that you're pouring ash on your head, but the problem is very clear, it's very crystalline. Hospitals should receive this money for their activities because they have treated patients during this period. They have started this work and it is recognised by the National Health Insurance Fund. How are you going to do that? I don't know how this is gonna happen, but I think you're part of the problem and now reporting on... At least you admit it's the wrong decision, and others, as we can see, are saying that there's no problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u19	There's a second line, Mr. Popovski. Here you are, Mr. Mikhailov, for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Member Popovski! With an apology, not with two hands to vote for this amendment in the Casa budget, this Circulus vitiosus, which you have repeated repeatedly, will not change, as we have long shared with you for three and a half years that the very way of financing healthcare through the model of trading companies and clinical pathways has been vicious. As much as it spins, it will produce more and more hospital duties. I don't need to go into detail and tell you how certain hospitals are secured only by expensive paths, others sink with low-paid paths. This is all the vicious circle, Dr. Popovski. And however you struggle with the majority now to save him with 75 million, he will not be saved! Nothing will change in the whole tragic health situation! Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u21	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. Third line? Mr. Atanasov, third line or statement? Third line, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u22	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Dr. Popovski, I'm just going to ask you to listen to me. I listened carefully to your statement. I agree with almost everything, although on the first point of updating the budget, this is practically a debate by professionals, doctors in parliament. I speak as a lawyer. Dr. Popovski, you have to tell me where they buried the problem, the big problem? I think you can confirm what I'm about to say with your backside. There are 23 private hospitals in my constituency. Why are state and municipal hospitals piling up, Dr. Popovski I have had many conversations with my friends doctors from Plovdiv, why do state and municipal hospitals accumulate these debts? You know what I mean. First, private hospitals take expensive paths. Secondly, public hospitals usually take on all cases of health-insured ones. Is that right? That's right! After all, state and municipal hospitals become a donor, and they can't help but sink into debt in this vicious practice. Therefore, I ask you to answer this question and confirm that this is the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. Mr. Popovski, come on in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u24	Madam President, honourable Members! I do not want to go into many details really, because this issue in this Chamber is understood by no more than 10 people..... where are the problems?! The problems, I'm talking about the doctors from the clinical studies who know where the problems have been accumulated for 20 years. Just between 2000 and 2010, you know which governments were then, and private hospitals, which made even invasive cardiology in public hospitals, were also involved. Who was the minister then, who signed and who was responsible for these things?! Including the University Hospital of Pleven there has been a private invasive cardiology for 12 years and there is no state. You can imagine what kind of collisions we've accumulated in the last 20 years, which we're still struggling with in the last government to confront them with the National Health Card, which is already giving some limit to discovering new hospitals, to conclude contracts with the National Health Insurance Fund?! I'm going back to this incarnation number: a 7 million-dollar state with 360 hospitals, a 10 million-dollar Holland with 100 hospitals. So there's a hospital in 100,000 people, we in 20,000 people have a hospital! Imagine our small hospitals, especially municipal hospitals, remote ones, how they are organized, what is the preparation of the footage, half of which are already above the retirement age, and so on! There are so many problems, we won't solve them in this room today. We really need a comprehensive financial and clinical view of things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Popovski. To speak, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u26	Thank you, Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! This discussion about the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020 is interesting with the fact that both in the Committee on Health and now it is clear from the positions requested that this project will be supported unanimously. Since 2000, when it comes to updating the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, there have always been scandals. The most common update of the budget was accompanied by the resignation of the governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. Now, however, things are different because the measure proposed is in the interest of Bulgarian doctors. Let's hope it's in the interest of those who are on the first line, those who are currently serving the diseased with a crown infection. However, I am not optimistic that this will happen because the creditors of the medical institutions, the numerous creditors who now hear that it is about 75 million additionally, will act out immensely and make claims, because the debts of the medical institutions, as has just been said, are hundreds of millions. The second point I want to address is the budget problem, the financial problem. Ladies and gentlemen, it is said in the Public Finance Act that, within a calendar year, the money from the budget, in the case of 2020, should be spent only on expenditure incurred in 2020. Read the Public Finance Act! The only exception where previous years can be paid is if they are entered in a transitional balance and transferred as an obligation for subsequent years. Yeah, but no! Why not? Because this transitional remainder up until two weeks ago was not recognised at all as a recognised overlying activity. And that's the big problem. It turns out that we rely on the crown crisis, the crown infection to somehow solve the structural and functional problems of the healthcare system. There's no way that's gonna happen because they're in a completely different light. These 75 million are a drop in the sea and will in no way solve any, I repeat, any of the problems except for the circumvention of the judicial procedure. We will support the proposed project only because we have the hope that this money will go to medical staff and not only to creditors. And last but not least, we have the hope that finally the limits in hospital care, and why not outpatient care, will be dropped. Such proposals have been made through all the budget procedures. We hope that the next budgetary procedure will finally be ready and the information system will drop limits so that we do not come to this type of discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kolev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u28	Mr. Ademov, ladies and gentlemen! Health problems can only be characterized at one point. It is if we do not focus the cancer, if we do not focus our attention on early diagnosis, early treatment of the diseases, cheap for the patient, cheap for the state, timely detection of the diseases, their timely treatment, lack of disease, we will have such debates repeatedly. The money won't be enough. No country in the world has enough money for health care. But when we see a deviation in biochemistry and we do not allow for a disease process, we do not allow for severe disease conditions, then money will not only reach, but there will be extremely serious salaries of doctors, but for prevention, for early treatment! Until we learn to manage the disease, there is no real management of the disease anywhere, the money will not be enough. Therefore, to focus our attention in the next budget the funds to be for early diagnosis, early detection of diseases in order to be cheap for the state, cheap for the patient and the patient to live for 10 more years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Kolev. Second line? I can't see. Mr. Ademov, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Kolev, the line that you made, as far as I could understand it, is in the direction that in the budgets of the National Health Insurance Fund should transfer the money for prevention, for early diagnosis and for everything else related to prevention and rehabilitation. You love that word rehabilitation. However, I would like to say something else and remind my fellow Members from.......................... that in all budgets of the National Health Insurance Fund....... not only within this mandate............................................................................................................................................................................................................... And now, at the end of the term, you say from this tribune that you want to give more money for prevention, for prevention, for early diagnosis. Well, if you think that your position is correct, support the proposals of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. We will do them within the framework of the budgetary procedure at the end of this year on the budget for next year. So when we are talking about prevention and prevention with the relevant proposals from this tribune, my request is that you support them so that we do not come to such lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. Mr. Tonchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! I will also speak from the position of a practitioner in a municipal hospital. I sincerely believe that this bill is timely and expected. This act will allow payment of the activity carried out over the projected budgets of municipal, state and private hospital aid contractors. This additional resource I am convinced will contribute to the activities of the medics in these hospitals. Last but not least, it will contribute to raising wages in the sector. Administrations to this act of the Ministry of Health and of the Cabinet as part of all measures in support of native health, including the additional funds voted on, amounting to 136 million. lv. for health insurance payments for hospital and dental care. Again, as a practitioner in hospital care, familiar with the problems in the sector, I appeal and I am sure that we will support this act in support of Bulgarian healthcare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Tonchev. - What's the line? [[The National Representative Georgi Kolev wants the floor.]] Mr. Kolev, wait a minute. There's a record before you. There are no lines. Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u34	Madam President, honourable Members! I speak briefly in my capacity as Vice-President of the Budget Committee. Madam President, I appeal to you with the following request. I listened carefully to colleague Ivanov's statement with the data on what money is due and how will be paid. Honourable Members, the data gap between 15 and 20 million. lv. in relation to what the President has told us, I think also the deputy of the NHIF in the Budget Committee, 15 lv. a difference, which is why, Madam President, I insist that between first and second readings, we be given full tables by year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, month, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, year, and hospital, since the missing information is frightening? Secondly, obviously said fellow doctors, I am not a doctor, but the system clearly does not work and this is clear to everyone, how are payments and obligations being dragged from 2015 to 2020, for what reason? Why are legal expenses being incurred so that the judiciary of Bulgaria should prove these costs? In addition, if the justice system has a gap in the data here, we were told that it is expected to be about 40 million. BGN, why the requested amount is 75 million. lv.? This is also not clear and it must be provided. Besides, the system is messed up because obviously this funding can't go on. Colleagues, we vote every year, as you say, with two hands on the increase in the health budget. You say and the data is that 10 billion. lv. is spent annually by families and by the state and the result is a three-minus, as the university says. Nobody's happy with health care. I would like to remind you that when Prime Minister Ananiev was elected, he promised that in two or three weeks he would present us with the health reform. Today we are chasing the winter of 2020. There is neither reform nor a new system. Finally, I understand doctors, there is a moral problem here, I do not comment at all that when it should be medical assistance, it should turn out to be. Dear doctors, there is no financier or government that will agree to duty-free funding. You know what kind of feverish factual activity is going to take place in hospitals? There's no such country. Switzerland cannot afford duty-free funding. In conclusion, once again, we want the exact data with the right hospitals, with the right solutions and the way the money is distributed. And by the way, don't forget, honourable Members, of course the money must go, as you say, especially to doctors, nurses and medical staff, but, let's be objective, we can't define here as bad creditors of hospitals. These hospitals were taking funds to buy medical equipment, to buy medicine, to pay off, so let's not draw in black creditors, thanks to which hospitals existed. In conclusion, the system is not working and we need a serious discussion on a proposed new healthcare system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. - What's the line? Mr. Ivanov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u36	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Gechev! I appeal to you as a prominent financier to determine exactly where the gap is. I'd go to my colleagues and tell them where this gap came from. You have read the opinion of private medical institutions, where they mention the amount of 3 million more than we are currently paying from the Health Insurance Fund, that is, we are talking about 78 million, and here we are paying 75 million. And I would like you to point out in your reply these millions, these 20 million where and how you read them precisely because I have the opinions of the various organisations that have given their opinion on this issue. As a financier, it would be good of you to say exactly and specifically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u37	Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Colleague Ivanov, to your question. You have no way of knowing where the number I quote is from, as it is from the Budget Committee where we discussed it. This number was indicated by Deputy Minister Nacheva. We did a gathering, and I asked her because there is no such information, but we are curious and asked for several numbers. The number we've reached is in the budget committee's protocol, about plus a few hundred thousand, 40 million. BGN, and the numbers that you carried are different. So that's my answer, that's not the bills we've been making, that's the deputy minister's information. So these numbers need to be specified because the differences are still significant and we are sent here to watch for every lev of Bulgarian taxpayers, nothing more.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. Mr. Karadaye has a procedure. And then we continue with Mr. Chakarov's statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u40	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Karayancheva, my procedure is with you. Yesterday you provided me with some documents and I promised you that I would get acquainted with the documents in order to build judgment and opinion, but in order to build clear judgment and opinion, we need to look at the documents in full and in a package. In the annotation which is not dated in these documents, a statement to a complaint dated 11 June states that it has been collected, analysed and verified documents which have not been applied here. I'm going to ask you to give them to me so we can make a clearer and complete assessment.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u41	Of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u42	Besides these documents, there's one more thing I'm missing. In a transcript by the Anti-Corruption Commission, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics, a letter sent to the KKCONPI by the President of the Commission is written and the letter itself is not attached here in the documents. I'm going to ask you to give them to me so that we can fully get acquainted with the documents so we don't get the wrong idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u43	Of course, Mr. Karadaye, these documents will be provided immediately, which are missing. Colleagues, we are continuing with Mr. Chakarov's statement. Here you go, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u44	Please extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u45	Please extend the group time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It has already been expressed on behalf of our parliamentary group, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, that we will support the proposal. We will support it and I will repeat it again very briefly in view of being correct towards the relevant medical institutions. These activities have been carried out and implemented, and to be correct towards those working in the healthcare system, suppliers and so on. I would like to look at the case from another aspect. From the very beginning, when these subliminal values, activities began to be realized, as we call them, our position was clear and it is what it is nowadays. At the same time, however, we also need to point out the position of the government that it was then presented as a useful activity, positive activity, positive results, even our memory should be short, and savings in quotes that we see today were not savings, and they must be paid out of the budget that we are all concerned about, each lev being spent in the most effective, in the most correct way. Although time has passed, we need to be correct to medical institutions, all the more so in the context of the situation we are in with the COVID pandemic, and we see colleagues and I as a doctor say that in the health care system we are making great efforts and I would say that we should give our thanks that in the COVID-19 conditions good results are achieved against the background of the results that are worldwide and European, that in our country, there should be no such situation, but there is and I would say that the colleagues are doing well. It is apparent that in medicine, in medical activity there may be estimates of limit values in limits. What you tried to do in that time period is not achieved in this way. What has not been done, I do not know what limitations to the sick, and the reality and the right approach would be to have a serious control, an objective, correct accountability, to have an effective medical activity. And in this regard Dr. Ademov expressed our position, but, Mr. Kolev, the right thing is that there should be more funds for hospital care, which, with each budget, the parliamentary group of the Parliament is making proposals for rights and freedoms, and these proposals are not accepted. This includes, naturally, prevention, and rehabilitation, prevention and so on. The spending of funds would be much more effective. The spending of funds has been increasing since 2001 each year. If we do a survey somewhere of 800 million. BGN, now there are more than 4 billion. And a half leva. What side is it getting better from? On the part of contentment and better treatment by patients or medical staff and those who work in the healthcare system are more satisfied? No, you won't. Moreover, according to World Bank data, at least another 100% and up there are payments below the table. So our country, in terms of expenditure in the healthcare system, ranks proportionately in one of the top countries of the European Union. All of this needs to be corrected. To this end, we need a very serious reform of the health system, which is not being carried out anyway. You've had the chance for this to happen in the last 10 years. We have had many of our proposals, unfortunately, they have not been heard, were not supported, including by you. But today we see that in terms of many of the proposals that we have made, you express them and even share them from the high platform of the National Assembly. The question of limits, as Dr. Jeffer pointed out, is on the agenda to be discussed and to have a proper approach so that there is effective medical activity and good functioning of the healthcare system. Another very important issue, for which there is also a solution, is an act of the National Assembly, for the information system, which was envisaged within two years to be introduced. We don't have feedback. Madam President, colleagues, it is good to have information on how far the development has come, the introduction of the information system into health care. This is very important in view of the effective spending of funds in the healthcare system, for the control that can be carried out and to have full awareness of all the activities in the healthcare system. A number of European countries have achieved this, a Estonia is light-years away, which is believed to be one of the new member states within the European Union, and we still cannot introduce for the last 30 years an information system that is increasingly subject to attention. I would just like to remind you that this decision has been adopted for the introduction of the information system as a proposal by the Parliamentary Group of..The Movement for Rights and Freedoms........................... and we will monitor how it will be implemented. I will conclude with the fact that we are in favour of this proposal to be correct with colleagues, because from medical institutions to receive what is being realized as an activity, but it must be correct, accountable and fully informed to the public, and we will monitor the implementation of the information system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. - What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Chakarov, don't you think that we doctors should be grateful that there is a kind of infection to put order in the system to make some savings, which now 75 million we will give to hospitals? Don't you think that after the hospitals so created for invasive cardiology, we're going to hospitals for a species of infection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u49	Thank you, dear Mr. Timchev. Second line? Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Associate Professor Chakarov, as one of the serious specialists in Plovdiv in healthcare, I will ask you a question. You're an expert in the system, and I want you to answer that question. Today we are really making a good decision and our parliamentary group will support it. I don't think there's gonna be a single vote against the money being made available. But, Dr. Chakarov, I want you to answer me when you get the doppelganger. Do you think this money will reach the hospitals? Because in my opinion, one more moment after we vote here in Parliament, the hospital creditors will immediately submit executive sheets to hospitals. I'm 100% convinced of that, and there's nothing to be angry with them, these are the rules of modern economy. Pacta clara boni amici, say the Romans: clean bills good friends. So I want you to answer me as a specialist, quite serious, in our city, and in the country: will this money really reach hospitals, or will creditors through executive sheets take it away? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. Third line, Mr. Popovski, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u52	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear colleague Chakarov, I would like to bring a quick little clarity to this report of the World Health Organization that in Bulgaria the Casa has a five billion budget and another five billion is paying the population, as you said, under the table. In my opinion, it's not under the table, it's just above the table, and everything is already regulated, bleached for the fact that private hospitals have an official package, this amount also goes into that five billion. The other part of this amount is the medicines the Bulgarian public pays in the pharmacies. That's how this amount of 10 billion is formed. And just reminding that with the 8% health contribution, having a five billion budget on the Casa, we're now going to exceed it probably this year, that's how much we can pay with the 8% contribution. Germany has a nearly 15% health contribution, cumulative 211 billion. euros in all of Germany's cases and can therefore afford to pay the medicines, i.e. to be free for the citizens, to pay them there hydrant crates throughout Germany. We can't afford it because we have to raise the health contribution. That's the reason, not that that money goes somewhere under the table. There's nothing under the table anymore because public hospitals have the choice of a doctor, the choice of a team, and private hospitals have the official extra charge. Another point is that there is no upper limit and no upper limit, and the path may be 1000 BGN and the additional payment is 3,000 BGN, because such paradoxes exist today in Bulgarian healthcare. In other words, the overly liberal system, which I said earlier in my speech, led us to this situation today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u53	Thank you, Mr. Popovski. A hole, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Popovski, I accept the note you're making. Let it be above the table or rather it is an additional payment we are talking about, but it is a fact anyway and is reported by the World Health Organization and by the World Bank's analysis. Unfortunately, in this way, we are in charge, as I have just said, among the countries within the European Union, where the most money is being spent in the healthcare system for the relevant activities. But the question is whether efficiency is as it is in the leading countries within the European Union. With regard to the payment of the medicines, I fully agree with you. Unfortunately, Bulgaria pays the highest price for medicines compared to the total cost and amount of funds that are spent in the healthcare system. And all of this must be serious signals to us both to the legislative authority and to the executive authority, all of this must be corrected and balanced. Colleague Atanasov, I hope, since there is no way in the legal peace and the settlement of the financial and economic relations governed by the relevant legal aspects, yes, the creditors will receive, but I sincerely hope that these funds will reach the medical institutions and have a proper pay for the work of all who work in the healthcare system. There is nothing more to say in this regard. And with regard to COVID, a colleague, unfortunately, COVID-19 is a fact, but it should hardly be a reason and a reason to turn on the relevant red lights to remember that there are any problems in the healthcare system. We've put them on the agenda, most of our colleagues here have presented, and you've put certain problems on the agenda, and they know they have to have willpower. What I would like to say, from which it will be decided what will be the next actions, so that the relevant sensible solutions and vision and strategy and reforms are found, is said the political will. As if, not as if, but lacking political will in the last mandates to do so. We have proposed that even a non-partisan political consensus will have health reforms so that the work can be improved, that there will be greater efficiency of spending funds. Unfortunately, there was no such will, but sooner or later there must be, so as to resolve these issues. I hope Covid and I are done, and we'll be successful. Let's wish our colleagues on the scientific front to find a vaccine, to have a solution, to get rid of this serious danger to the health of a large part of the world's population. In our country there are many dead and among the medical community that are on the front front. Here must also be attributed to the authorities of the police, who have helped a lot in decisive situations, so we must all make an effort to overcome this pandemic. In this respect, we must really be honest with our fellow Members, thank them for the work they are doing and continue to be on the front. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Statements? Mr. Kolev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u56	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! From the debates that are being held here, I am motivated to talk and to say the opinion on the overall aspect of health care. I have said it many times, and I will repeat it many times, what a beautiful word we have, and our Ministry is so called health care. If we do not focus the attention of the entire society on the protection of health, we follow the illness to wait for the disease processes to deteriorate, then the money will not reach. We have left the RHIF, the NHIF, the Ministry to deal with the health protection process on their own, and this is a universal process. Health protection has started since early childhood. Where is the participation of the education system in the health care process? Where is the role of health care in working groups where we have a real system for occupational medicine? Here I hear colleagues talking about the current money that's being released. Colleagues, the money now due to hospitals, as colleague Atanasov says, will go away to creditors and will not be felt by hospitals at all. We must help the National Health Insurance Fund and the Ministry in full. This is a matter of national security. I'll give you a few examples. You know, as kids, what kind of gymnastics they were doing, what kind of exercises they were doing, how kids were learning, so we wouldn't have to go to disease processes, have a healthy immune system. Where's that now? In that order of thought, a lifetime of a person's health worsens, and finally, in the last two or three years, he spends all the money he saves on health. Is this the right process, is this the right way? Health has no color, no parties. Here we need to stop fighting and talk against each other, and we need to unite ourselves into public, common solutions, commonally liked topics. Where is the feeling of proper health care in the population, both in the people and in the doctors? He's gone! The feeling that there is a lack of healing comes out of Pyrogov. "Pirogov" has done his job perfectly. They operated on him wonderfully, but he is not able to go home. We don't have the healing process, we don't have the long-term treatment process, we don't have the mandatory process for the healing process. Go home, get sick, not treated, weighs on the public, all of us. In Germany, if you don't perform a prescribed treatment process, they raise your health contribution. Where is the patient's responsibility in the healing process? She's gone! These are a set of factors that crush health care. We're waiting for the head of one office or the other to deal with the trial. Well, that's not gonna happen! And we wait for society to be satisfied. Well, that's not gonna happen! If we all don't unite to make a real health policy, things won't happen. Health management is a very easy question, an extremely easy question.. We are tracing the path of the already sick patient from the medical institution............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... You'll see, there are whole cavities that we've let society handle only the healing process. It's unfamiliar, it's uninformed. There is no awareness of the correct and gradual recovery of the patient and its inclusion in the working process. Keep in mind that there is injustice in health contributions as well. Is it fair for some people to pay, the employers get tired?! Workers who pay their health contributions conscientiously carry hundreds of thousands of nonpayers on their backs. Why?! Or civil servants paying half of the minimum fee instead of paying 200 BGN. Health contribution, pay BGN 22 Is that fair?! We are talking largely about injustice, we are talking about discontent, we are talking about a sense of maltreatment. This is what we need to look at and all political parties to sit together if you want a round table, if you want a square table, it doesn't matter at all. People expect from us all the problems we are talking about here on the stand to sign them into a road map and then include all ministries to participate in this process.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u57	Mr. Kolev, should we increase the time? [[Heckling]] It's already been increased. I'm sorry. Finish the speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u58	The wrong focus is on expecting hospitals that are unable to cope with the process without helping them with sufficient resources for the clinical pathways. There's no way we can help if we don't focus and include the municipal hospitals in this. I don't agree with my colleague, we're friends, but I disagree with him. We've had a lot of hospitals.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u59	Mr. Kolev, it's already one minute...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u60	Just a second, I'm finishing up. We have wonderful municipal hospitals, and each one of them needs to be preserved. Coming out of Pirogov, coming out of the heavy, sharp hospitals, there is the healing place, for prevention, there is the place for people to be close to their loved ones and to complete their healing process, or to do an analysis of the pre-chronic conditions, so that they do not reach the severe diseases that weigh on all of us. I conclude and appeal once again: let us all sit together, let us put aside all political ambitions, let us start thinking as the patient thinks, put ourselves in his place, go all the way from disease to healing, and then it will be easy for us to implement funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u61	Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u62	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Kolev, in order for you to have three more minutes, because it was interesting your speech, I am making this line for you, taking this opportunity to note that we are currently playing the role of an ATM that will take a group of money to an ATM called a Health Insurance Fund, which will then distribute them against invoices or, conditionally speaking, against so-called bank cards. And it's not politics, as you say, it's patching up the situation and it doesn't solve it, it deepens it. There's one thing I don't agree with. You said there were holes on the way from the hospital to the workplace. There are holes before that from the workplace to the hospital. All the doctors who are here know very well that one lev spent in prevention saves at least 5 leva. then in the healing process. When we talk about policies, it is good that healthcare is no longer a sales service with tourist inclinations, given the paths, but to become really health care, above all care, which means prevention, and only then to get to its treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u63	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Is there a second line? Hole, Mr. Kolev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov, for raising the ball. Thank you. Look at a few more tricks of what I wanted to say. Did you know that the average age of doctors in a large hospital is 59 years? Isn't that a matter of national security now? How far are we going to get to the 59-year-old average of doctors? There aren't any sisters. Guess where the most sick are? Home, home. That's where people heal. Is that where they belong? Where is our health culture, where should we have specifics? Where's our health education? Where are our health duties? Where is the possibility that the funds not to waste them in the last two or three years, but to remain funds with which to have a longer life, to extend our lives? In all the order of thought, I come back to this: I call on all of you very well, very purposefully, I challenge you, let us sit down at the same table, help the Ministry of Health, help the National Health Insurance Fund, help patients mostly, help doctors, medical professionals, make a real road map of the health care process, fund it properly, provide it. Is there anything more important than ensuring the patient's overall healing process?! The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy will participate in this roadmap. Keep in mind, Mr. Ermenkov, just to tell you, when holidays come, those who are not sick take sick days. Is this our health care process? Why don't we call on the people who took the hospital yesterday I talked to a head of health, I won't say who, let's get them into the hospital. Right during the very festive day on which he took a sick day, let's put him in the hospital. Hospitals will disappear, and the money saved by the NSI by these fictitious hospitals will be directed to complete the health process. We can talk a lot about health care. It would be good to open up a topic in which all of you can participate with only one goal to imagine the whole way through the eyes of the patient and his family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u65	Thank you. Mr. Mihailov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I know that I have no right to propose that the debate be terminated at first reading, but I ask you, after three and a half years of nothing doing in health care, now that we are here to practice rhetoric, what are the fundamental problems, how are we going to solve them at a round or square table... We have come to the bottom in this way of solving the problems of such an important sector as healthcare. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Four years have passed, here we practice to say things that are not done.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u67	The procedure, Mr. Mikhailov. [[Reply from the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u68	There's no electronic system, old-fashioned funding for health care. All of this goes the same way, we're practicing from the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u69	Please don't abuse the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u70	Please, Mr. Chairman. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u71	I'm asking you, too. You've requested a procedure. Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova. [[Relation of lines between the MPs Lachezar Ivanov and Georgi Mihaylov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u72	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Yes, Mr. Ivanov, I intend to take an attitude. After so much emotion in this room, a little more pragmatism and going back to the proposal, which makes the importer. The budget of the National Health Insurance Fund is well known, for 2020 it has been developed in gross domestic product of 126 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, but we are all listening to leading specialists in this area, which show that to date it has decreased by over 8% and this trend is likely to remain in the next three months, by the end of this year. What will it be, at this point no one can say. Probably 2021 in October we will have more data. However, this calls into question the implementation of revenue in the Cassate's budget for 2020, respectively, and the amount of any unused funds. If the Cashier now pays up to 75 million. lv. for the reported and unpaid activities in hospital medical care for 2015 and 2016 under the order of 1.3.7 of § 2 of the current budget, several questions arise. First, is it possible for us to be left with funds to pay hospital medical care for 2020, and then to resort to the accounts for foreign funds of the National Health Insurance Fund something that no one has put in place until now? However, I am convinced that no MP present in this House knows what money is in this account, and we will shortly vote that we are also giving the opportunity, if necessary, to withdraw funds. Secondly, why only 2015 and 2016? Mr. Gechev asked a question. There is no information available for the next 2017 until 2020. I'll put the other side. If there have been and untangled activities by hospitals for more recent years, before 2015, they must also be paid after verification by the control bodies in the order of the created para. 4 both during and in the order of occurrence. Thirdly, it has remained unclear at what prices will we pay these old debts in current or comparable terms? We are obviously waiting for the answers between first and second readings.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u73	Thank you. - What's the line? I can't see. Procedure Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u74	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I propose a procedure to extend plenary time until the debate and vote on the two points provided for in our programme for today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u75	You mean the legislative part. That is exactly what I am going to put to the vote to extend the legislative part of today's sitting. Vote 89 MPs: 80 against 1, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Are there any speeches, colleagues? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I request that the Members of the National Assembly, who are not in plenary, enter. I ask the Quaestors to invite those who are not watching us on the monitors to enter the Chamber. Let's move on to the vote. They voted 132 MPs: 132, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR THE BUDGET OF THE STATE PUBLIC SECURITY FOR 2020 Ms. Angelova, you have the floor to present the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u76	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending the State Social Security Budget Act for 2020, No 002-01-42, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 September 2020. At a meeting held on 9 September 2020, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. It was presented by Mrs. Zornitsa Rusinova, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy. The Bill proposes changes relating to the amount and duration of the receipt of the unemployment benefits, which will enter into force from 1 October 2020. They are part of the government's socio-economic package on the situation arising due to the spread of COVID-19, which aims to provide support to unemployed people under pandemic conditions. It is proposed that the minimum daily amount of monetary unemployment allowance will be increased from BGN 9.00. 12,00 BGN. From 1 October 2020, this increase is intended to affect between 30 000 and 33 000 persons on average per month for the period from 1 October to 31 December 2020. The necessary expenditure for the three-month period is estimated at around 12 million. BGN, i.e. about 4 million lv. a month. The bill proposes the period for receiving monetary unemployment benefit under art. 54b, para. 4 of the Social Security Code (where the person has acquired the right of compensation before the end of 3 years of the previous exercise of that right) to increase from four to seven months. This change is intended to affect between 13 000 and 15 000 persons on average per month for the period from 1 October to 31 December 2020. The necessary expenditure for the three-month period is estimated at around 2 million. BGN, including about 500 thousand. lv. For November and 1 million Five hundred thousand. lv. for December. The total additional cost of the two measures amounts to 14 million. lv. for 2020. There is no need to make an adjustment to the costs of the Fund, the general budget of state social security, respectively. With the amendment of the State Social Security Budget Act of April 2020, the total cost of the Fund was increased by 1 billion. BGN, with estimates of the expected implementation of the general budget of the state social security on the basis of the reporting data on 31 July, show that at the end of the year there will be sufficient funds to secure the increased costs of the Fund. Following the discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Budget and Finance Committee proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending the State Social Security Budget Act for 2020, No 002-01-42, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 September 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u77	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. You have the floor, Mr. Ademov, to present the report of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a Draft Law amending the State Social Security Budget Act for 2020, No 002-01-42, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 September 2020. The Commission on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 9 September 2020 examined and discussed a Draft Law amending the State Social Security Budget Act for 2020. The meeting was attended by: Lazar Lazarov, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy; Kalina Petkova, Director of the Department of Labour Law, Social Security and Labour at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy; Petya Malakova, Head of Department at the same Directorate; Rositsa Spasova, Head of Department at the Department of State Expenditure at the Ministry of Finance; Tanya Stoyanova, Senior Expert at the same Directorate of the Ministry of Finance; Daniela Asenova, Director of Directorate at the National Insurance Institute, etc. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Lazar Lazarov. He stressed that the Bill is consensual and is part of the package of measures taken in relation to the situation arising due to the spread of COVID. The bill proposes changes relating to the amount and period of receipt of the unemployment benefits, which will enter into force from 1 October 2020. In general, the Bill sets out two measures to provide support to unemployed people in a pandemic. The first measure suggests that the minimum daily amount of the monetary unemployment benefit will increase from BGN 9.00. 12,00 BGN. The second measure provides for the period for receiving monetary unemployment benefit under art. 54b, para. 4 of the Social Security Code (where the person has acquired the right to compensation in a period less than 3 years of the previous use) shall be increased from four to seven months. The first measure will affect between 30 000 and 33 000 persons on average per month for the period from 1 October to 31 December 2020. The necessary expenditure for the three-month period is estimated at around 12 million. BGN, i.e. about 4 million lv. a month. The second change will affect between 13 000 and 15 000 persons on average per month for the period from 1 October to 31 December 2020. The necessary expenditure for the three-month period is estimated at around 2 million. BGN, including about 500 thousand. lv. For November and 1 million Five hundred thousand. lv. for December. The total additional cost of the two measures amounts to 14 million. lv. for 2020. There is no need to make an adjustment to the costs of the Fund, the general budget of state social security, respectively. With the amendment of the State Social Security Budget Act in force from 9 April 2020, the total cost of the Fund was increased by 1 billion. BGN, with estimates of the expected implementation of the general budget of the state social security on the basis of the reporting data on 31 July, show that at the end of the year there will be sufficient funds to secure the increased costs of the Fund. The discussion was attended by the MPs Violeta Jeleva, Svetlana Angelova, Hasan Ademov and Nadia Klisurska. Mrs. Violeta Jeleva raised a question related to the principles on which the new amount of unemployment compensation is determined from 9 to 12 BGN. She expressed her opinion that the measure was appropriate but was late in time. Ms. Svetlana Angelova also supported both measures and said that they were not applied earlier in time, because before the pandemic there was a shortage of labour and other dimensions of unemployment. Dr. Hasan Ademov supported the two measures, noting that there is a good attempt to cover the cases of unemployed people. However, in this way, there will be persons who will receive three amounts of compensation by 1 October, the second by the end of the year and the third in the new calendar year if, by the State Social Security Act for 2021, this amount is changed again. Ms. Nadia Klisurska asked the representatives of the National Insurance Institute and the Ministry of Finance about the number of persons entitled to unemployment benefit and the number of persons with a minimum amount of compensation received. She also expressed concern that there will be a large number of people who have taken more than 30 days of unpaid leave, who will be deprived of unemployment benefits. In addition, it finds it financially more sustained to bring the minimum unemployment benefit closer to the financial statement of the poverty line. The representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the National Insurance Institute answered the questions asked in full. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance made a commitment to send further written answers to the questions asked to them. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 12 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to support the First Voting Draft amending the State Social Security Budget Act for 2020, No 002-01-42, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 September 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u79	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. I'm opening the debate. Honourable Members, you have the floor for speeches. Here you go, Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u80	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The Draft Amendment to the Law on State Social Security offers us an increase in the daily amount of unemployment benefit, which is minimal per day. It is proposed to increase from 9 to 12 BGN. Or a whole 3 leva. a day. You must expect a loud applause for still offering an increase at the end of the year, but alas and I will say why. The other thing you might be able to replicate me is that the BSP is still dissatisfied even if there is an increase. No, this is not a small discontent, honourable Members, this is consistency, and I will therefore go back to the years to say exactly what our proposals were, because there were minor manipulations during the Commission. From 2011 to 2017 the amount of daily unemployment allowance is BGN 7.20. a day. Seven years it's frozen! Only 2018 increased to 9 BGN. per day, then is our proposal for an increase, respectively for 2019. 12 BGN, and in the Health Act, when the package was discussed, support measures for people in social difficulties during the pandemic were 17 BGN. daily minimum daily unemployment allowance. Let's be exact and not say we just want something. It's just our policy that's consistent over the years. I say this because it was the subject of a debate in this House in the Chamber, which discusses the budget of state social security, every year we have proposed that it be raised fairly. Why now? The question I asked in both the Commission and Deputy Minister Lazarov is: what is the principle? For each increase, for each amount proposed, which we must consider in the budget, there must be reasons. The motives say that this is providing support to unemployed people in the conditions of a pandemic. This pandemic is not from now on, not from today, not from October as proposed in your proposal. In our comments in the Commission, we were told that this cannot be linked to the minimum wage, because our proposal, our mechanism and our motives are that it can be linked to the minimum wage. Okay, you're saying: this is not a good mechanism. Well, these aren't social payments to be tied to the poverty line. But what is the principle, though, I ask? I also asked a lot of other questions that I could say immodestly that we were answered somewhat arrogantly, somehow, as if we were not on the agenda of society, because the protests outside have no social focus, but at the heart of it. We really need to provide social protection for those people who are out of work, especially during this period, where more and more are queues in front of the employment desks. That's why I'm asking this question. Because, when there were thousands of tails, when we alarmed that this would really be an anti-crisis measure that would reach people, this did not happen because it was probably proposed by BSP by our parliamentary group. Unemployment benefits must be balanced between the objective of keeping the incomes of job seekers and, at the same time, offering adequate incentives to return to work. This is a quote from Minister Sacheva's answer to my question. Once again, this topic has been posed several times, and several times my colleagues and I have asked questions. Therefore, today, there is no calm and peaceful way to simply press the button for.................... so I am speaking today, because this topic must continue to be debated. Workers and employees are provided for this risk for years, but what is offered when they really need it? They are offered a social support, especially now, born of the pandemic, on principle: it is still something! That is why, colleagues, now I will not vote quietly and calmly for the EU, but we will make our proposals to increase the minimum unemployment benefit to be fair and at least to be BGN 17.00. a day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u81	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jeleva. Are there any lines? Mr. Ademov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Our attention today is given to the Bill amending the budget of state social security for 2020. During the discussion in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, importers said this was an anti-crisis measure in relation to overcoming the consequences of coronacrisis. However, the natural question arises immediately: why is this measure now being proposed, given that the proposal to increase the minimum amount of unemployment benefit has been made in the last few years, and that it is always in the direction of increasing remuneration when the insured persons are entitled to minimum unemployment benefit? The answer given in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy by Deputy Minister Lazarov was in the direction that before this year unemployment in Bulgaria was below 5% and now unemployment, literally since yesterday the registered unemployed are 7,6% and 243 thousand as a total number. That's literally yesterday. The information is from the Employment Agency. That is, depending on the number of unemployed in practice, the government proposes an increase or a halt in the amount of minimum unemployment benefit. What are the conditions for receiving unemployment benefits at all? This is an important issue because it may be necessary, in a very short time, for a large part of our fellow Members in plenary to benefit from this compensation. I'm not talking about the minimum size, I'm talking about the general case under art. 54, para. 1. In order for you to be entitled to unemployment benefit, you must have paid insurance contributions 12 months from the last 18 months. That's the condition. The second condition is that you don't have a job, you don't get a pension. These are the general conditions for receiving unemployment benefits. Of course, I also include mandatory registration within 7 days in the territorial divisions of the Employment Agency. However, what is the amount of compensation received and how is it calculated? The amount shall be calculated as 60% of the average daily remuneration or of the average daily social security income. Here comes the question: why is this increase, which is now offered at the minimum size... from 9,00 to 12,00 BGN, why are 12.00 BGN and not 11,00 BGN, not 10,00 BGN, not BGN 15,00 BGN.? What's with the 12.00 leva?? The answer to this question is found in the long proposals, including the colleagues from Coalition for Bulgaria, the trade union organizations also offered this amount and it was 12.00 BGN, when 60% of the minimum wage was 12.00 BGN. from the average day's compensation. Now, given that the minimum wage is BGN 610. This amount, if we observe the general principle, should be BGN 17,40 and next year, if we assume that the minimum wage will be BGN 650, this minimum amount will be BGN 18,60 to meet the condition in art. 54 to be 60% of the average daily remuneration. Here are the arguments, i.e. these 12,00 BGN. were part of the past amounts of the minimum wage, not the current ones. If we want to be the current amount of 60% in order to comply with the Law, it must be BGN 17,40 and next year, possibly with the increase of the minimum wage, the minimum amount of unemployment compensation must be BGN 18,60. Dear colleagues, what is proposed in this bill? There are two measures. The first measure is an increase in the amount of minimum compensation for unemployment, as I mentioned a moment ago from 9,00 to 12,00 BGN. It's 30 grand, according to importers, on average. However, here we must bear in mind another fact. In the period between January and July 2020, the number of those who had the right to unemployment benefit at all is 88 thousand, i.e. there will also be an overlap, so that this number between 30 and 33 thousand people will most likely be exceeded, but there is no problem, because in the Unemployment Fund there is enough BGN, which we all know about, so with the financing of this measure there should be no problem. The second measure refers to those for which the period for receiving monetary unemployment benefit is under art. 45b, para. 4 of the Social Security Code, i.e. those entitled to compensation in a period of less than three years from the previous use. In other words, another way of putting it: what is this proposal about? Those who have received unemployment benefits and again benefit from the right to monetary unemployment benefit in the next three years. Their period of four months, as it is now, is extended to seven months. Of course, there is a correct proposal here that covers the so-called transitional cases, the so-called unemployed with the right to compensation, who have received the right to unemployment benefit before the sacral date of 1 October, as stated in the proposal of the Council of Ministers. However, there is a very interesting fact. Honourable Members, we say that in order for you to have the right to unemployment benefit, you must meet the universal condition, and that is that in the last 18 months before termination of the employment relationship you must have at least a period of 12 months of insurance. Yeah, but in the next three years, after you've received your last unemployment benefit, you may again be in a hypothesis where you meet that condition. Then why would they restrict your rights to a minimum, even though it increases as compensation? This is an interesting question, and I will try to make a proposal between first and second readings. Those who understand what this is about are nodding their heads right now in plenary. My fellow Members, I would like to tell you what it means to receive a minimum amount of unemployment benefits in four months. Who are the categories of persons entitled to such unemployment benefit at a minimum of four months? In general, these are cases where the employee wishes to terminate the employment relationship. A second case when it comes to mutual agreement. Thirdly, the cases in which the court has unlawfully terminated the employment relationship and the employee has refused to take this place. Then it's the minimum amount of compensation. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u83	Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u84	Dear Mr. Chairman, it seems that no one is interested in the minimum amount of unemployment benefit.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u85	Yes, I paid attention to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u86	But unemployment benefits get a little over 88,000 people a month. So beware, these are the voters of all who are present in this Chamber. What are the categories that receive minimum unemployment benefit? I said them a little while ago in the most general case, but in several laws the Labour Code, in the Law on Defence and Armed Forces, in the Law on State Staff, in the Act on the Ministry of Interior and several other laws, there are 30 conditions under which, upon termination of employment, you are entitled to unemployment benefit. About thirty. Only in the Labour Code in art. 30 there is no wrong number, 11 hypotheses for obtaining a minimum unemployment benefit. Notice, there's a disciplinary discharge between them. Now what do we suggest? In disciplinary dismissal, if we take this case as an example, for four months they will be entitled to minimum compensation for seven months. So far, four months will be entitled to seven months, but this is only one of the eleven cases of termination of employment. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, despite the fact that we are talking about a short-term measure by the end of the year - October, November and December - there will be an increase in this minimum unemployment benefit. And in the second hypothesis, in the second measure, there will be an increase in the deadline for receiving unemployment benefits. I propose that we support these measures because they are in the interests of the people because they are in the interests of the unemployed. Last but not least, I would like to correct this obvious injustice, where within three years after the termination of the employment service, if you meet the universal condition, you have 12 months of insurance in the last 18 months, such as a hypothesis that clearly exists, there is no point in limiting you to the right to compensation for seven months, but it must be in the general order, depending on what kind of service you have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u87	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. Are there any lines, coworkers? Mrs. Angelova, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u88	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to start by saying that the Draft Amendment to the State Social Security Budget Act was unanimously supported by all MPs from all parliamentary groups in the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee I also call for this to be done by the MPs of the BSP parliamentary group, because these proposals are extremely important and are in support of the unemployed. As has been said so far, the first important amendment to the Law amending the Law on the Budget of State Social Security is an increase of the minimum daily monetary compensation for unemployment from 9 to 12 BGN. This will affect between 30,000 people per month. The increase in the minimum daily amount of unemployment benefit shall be from 1 October to the end of the year. Why until the end of the year? Because according to a provision of the Social Security Code, the minimum and maximum amount of unemployment benefit is determined by the State Social Security Budget Act. The necessary funds for this measure are around 12 million. lv. by the end of the year. In the Chamber it was said which cases and which persons receive the minimum unemployment benefit, most often those are those who, by their own consent or with the agreement of the employer, have themselves ceased the employment relationship and those who are disciplined. These are the most common hypotheses. As has been said, there are other hypotheses. Next, the next measure, which deserves attention and which is concerned by the Bill, is an extension of the period of payment of the monetary unemployment benefit from four to seven months to those persons who have acquired unemployment benefit in a period of less than three years of the previous receipt of unemployment benefit. This measure is also important and concerns between 13 000 and 15 000 people, will also support this group of unemployed people. A provision also settles the cases, namely those unemployed persons who receive unemployment benefits and continue before 1 October, and this unemployment benefit continues to be received after 30 September, will also fall into this hypothesis and will receive an increased period of unemployment benefit. Why are these measures important, and why should they be supported by everyone? Because they are part of the government's socio-economic package in relation to the situation arising because of the COVID-19 crisis, which aims to support unemployed people. As has been said in the Report of the two committees, there is no need to update the budget of the Fund - Unemployment and Public Security - as we have updated in April - we have increased the Fund's expenditure by 1 billion. lv. and the funds, the actuarial estimates of the experts from the National Insurance Institute showed that these funds will be enough and there is no need to have an update of the Fund's budget. In view of these important measures in support of the unemployed, given the socio-economic crisis, I call on all MPs to support the bill amending the State Social Security Budget Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u89	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Are there any lines? I won't. Next statement? Mrs. Klisurska, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u90	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It is at our attention that we are dealing with the issue of updating the budget of state social security, namely increasing the minimum amount of compensation for unemployment from 9 to 12 BGN. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the reasons you set for the increase you make from 9 to 12 BGN, the main motive is the crisis CIVID-19. In this regard, allow me to say one word: you have been late, honourable Members, because the mass boom of unemployment was in the period April-May. Each of you in this room can account for the four months in which people receive such a minimum daily unemployment benefit. And right now, at the end of the year, the managers are making this social economic measure, I say a socio-economic measure in quotes, because the amount you are proposing is extremely inadequate. Here in this Chamber, we have heard a justification for how in the years these amounts of minimum daily unemployment benefit have been moving. Ladies and gentlemen, since GERB manages the minimum daily unemployment allowance is about 35 to 40%. Today's offer is about 41% of the minimum wage. Exactly 10 years ago, let's say, at the end, when he was running the Triple Coalition, do you know how much the minimum daily unemployment allowance was? Sixty-three percent of the minimum wage! Do you think what you're doing is adequate? Because the people who will receive the minimum unemployment allowance will receive the sum of 252 BGN. a month. This amount is extremely far from the poverty line. We all know the economic situation we're in. We all know that now, in this period, an even more serious deepening of this economic crisis is expected. It is expected that those people who are employed seasonally or temporarily during the summer months in the tourism industry will flow again at the labor desks. To all of them you answer with this socio-economic measure by increasing the minimum daily compensation by three levs. The adequate proposal that we should all have taken responsibly, because you are now admitting that social economic measures are insufficient and you will add more, we should have done so when we made this proposal. In the Health Act we made a proposal to increase the minimum daily unemployment allowance to 17 BGN, namely 60% of the minimum wage, which will approach at least the poverty threshold. With what you're doing now, the sum of 252 lv. Or £8.40. A day, sorry, what socio-economic measure is it? And when we talk about the hypotheses in which people get the right to this minimum unemployment benefit, let me mention a few more, which are most likely avoided by the negotiators. One of the hypotheses in which people receive minimum daily compensation is when the person is appointed under art. 70, as defined in the Labour Code, this is the test period. Then you know that very often employment contracts are concluded for the benefit of the employer and he can at any time decide to terminate the employment relationship. Another hypothesis, which was not mentioned, relates to the fixed-term contracts. In this economic instability, in this economic situation where neither employers nor workers are certain, I ask the question: what are we doing right now and is this the adequate amount of minimum compensation? Because people are unstable in their jobs and we offer them a sum far below the poverty line. We have to think about it, our parliamentary group made this proposal to be 17 BGN. We will again make this proposal and I hope that you will support us at second reading. Because, as you point out in your motives, there is money in the state social security budget, and the amount that will be needed for this economic measure, as you call it, will be 35 million. lv. I think that's 35 million. lv. they will respond much more adequately to those people who will go and register at the labor desks. Because very often there are cases of various types of economic activities of people who are not satisfied with the work offered to them. They go, they start their work, but as soon as they start running it, there are some discrepancies that they have agreed on. This is why the hypotheses of termination of employment by mutual agreement are also hypotheses. In this economic situation many people, 30 000 people were mentioned just now, this is mentioned and in the motives they receive this minimum unemployment benefit. I will also address the other issue relating to § 2, namely the unemployment benefits received by the people who, within three years, have benefited from the right to monetary compensation. I believe, and this has been expressed here by the Chamber that it is extremely unfair and it is extremely imperative that we not increase the period in which these people will receive minimum unemployment benefits, it is high time for this hypothesis to drop out and all those people who have worked 12 calendar consecutive months in 18 months and are entitled to monetary unemployment benefit, to receive in general order 60% of their remuneration for what they have been provided for. And I remind you again in this House, ladies and gentlemen, this is not aid, this is compensation, this is an opportunity for the person who is provided for this period, if such an insurance event occurs, to replace this income from work. Ladies and gentlemen, in this regard, our parliamentary group objected and abstained during the Committee on Labour and Social Policy on this proposal, because we believe that its size is not inadequate and that its size should be at least increased to BGN 17 and the next proposal should be completely removed. I hope you will reconsider your position and at second reading to make sure that people receive a more adequate minimum unemployment benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u91	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. - What's the line? I can't see. Here's your speech, Mr. Popovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u92	Madam President, honourable Members! The Group of the United patriots will support the Bill, which we believe is reasonable, timely and comes to show that the government is thinking on this issue, despite the conditions of a global pandemic, and to redirect some funds into the budget of state social security to support these two so sensitive sectors such as unemployment and compensation. This is done without increasing the budget of state social security with an internal reserve, which shows really one caution for the last three months, because we do not know how this global pandemic will develop, including in Bulgaria, although we are currently one of the countries with the best indicators. I only recall that from the large budget of state social security, which is over 12 billion. BGN, about thirty-something percent, that is, about one third of four billion and something is added from the big budget, that is, we continue to be a social state in this area. Two thirds of the state social security budget is collected from social contributions, one third is added from the large budget of the state. And here, with an internal reserve, even though the opposition wants us to increase that money from 12 to 37 million, we cannot afford it right now, perhaps this move and the experts of the Council of Ministers have anticipated it. So we will support it, perhaps for a second reading, continue the discussion with our experts so that we can have some reasonable proposals for a second reading by the Group of the United Patriarchs.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u93	Thank you, dear Mr. Popovski. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. Please take your seats. I put to the first vote the bill amending the State Social Security Budget Act for 2020, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 3 September 2020. Vote 108 MPs: 104 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u94	Thank you. Dear President, I ask for a procedure...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u95	Thank you. Please, voting mode. Vote 105 MPs: 95 against 5, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. New questions concerning the period from 4 September 2020 to 9 September 2020: - from the MP Lyubomir Bonev, Nikolay Dinkov, Radoslav Stoychev and Nikolay Ivanov to Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, on the policy of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works concerning reconstruction, rehabilitation and maintenance of the Republican road network; should be answered in the plenary session on 18 September 2020. Written responses were received from: - Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov on a question from the MPs Plamen Hristov and Boryana Georgieva; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Elena Pesheva; - Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Environment and Lead Emil Dimitrov on a question from the MPs Valentina Naydenova and Milko Nedyalkov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov; - Minister of Environment and Lead Emil Dimitrov on a question from the National Representative Yavor Bojankov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Yavor Bojankov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Yavor Bojankov; - Minister of Economy Lachezar Borisov on a question from the National Representative Dora Yankova; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works of a Question from the National Representative Gergana Stefanova; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Danka Zidarova-Lurtova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Danka Zidarova-Lurtova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u96	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u97	What procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u98	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u99	I'm always ready to hear the advice of my colleagues. Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u100	Madam President, honourable Members! My procedure in the manner of conduct relates to a decision of the National Assembly of 23 July 2020, which instructs the Prosecutor General to prepare and submit a report on his activities. In my opinion, in the current situation, this is absolutely necessary. Here, before me, is the answer that the Attorney General has sent to the President of the National Assembly, in which he says that such activity reports the Prosecutor's Office rules, see, at 3 months, 6 months and 9 months. I think the situation in Bulgaria and on the streets is such that the Prosecutor's Office can bother to do so once and eight months. It will not be extremely difficult and it should be spoken of on your part, that is, my procedure is addressed to you! The other thing he says is he's ready to do a six-month report right away, and some other time he'll do a nine-month report if he has to. I insist, and I do not know what is the opinion of the National Assembly's leadership, since for two weeks this issue has not been raised... he could have, for a long time now, during these two weeks, come and do for a 6-month period after not asking for a 9-month period. And in three months, he'll make another one. And not to mention that the best is still to take it for the 8 months to August month, as decided by the National Assembly with full unanimity, including the votes of GERB. My request is for you to enter into your powers on this occasion to bring in the Attorney General as quickly as possible, because this is one of the things that people stand for on the street and the answers that he must give are precisely important not only for us as MPs, not just for his work, but for all citizens who are currently waiting for these answers. There are many answers that I expect the Attorney General to give. So, with this procedure, I ask you to do everything possible next week, the Chief Prosecutor, whether for an 8-month period, whether for a 6-month period you judge it, although I think he could do the 8-month report, as the National Assembly has decided, but come to the National Assembly next week and deliver the report for which we have all voted. I believe that this is your responsibility and I demand that you enter into this function.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u101	Mr. Kutev, as I recall, we had requested from the Attorney General by the end of August, and he replied correctly that by the end of August, when he collected the information, he could give it by the end of September or early October. I'm quoting from memory right now. If you want to be earlier...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u102	That's the answer he has to give.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u103	Yes, but if you want to see the six months that Mr. Geshev referred to, it doesn't stop us from inviting him to come over and tell us what happened until June. [[Reply of MP Anton Kutev outside the microphones.]] Let's...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u104	I apologize, Madam President, I have offered you two things that I think are clear. There are two options at the exit.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u105	Do you want him to come and make a report...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u106	Of course I do.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u107	...by June or the end... Because what we have given him as a request is by the end of August.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u108	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u109	That's how it was formulated.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u110	That's right. There are two ways from now on from which you have to choose. One option is what he proposed to himself to come immediately and do for the 6-month period and in a month to do for the next 3 months. The second option is simply to tell him to do for the 8th month, which is a matter of administrative work of the Prosecutor's Office, and to execute exactly the decision of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u111	After all, there must be time for August month ended 10 days ago.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u112	This decision is dated July 23rd, which...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u113	They're not my decisions, this decision is based on a proposal from you for an invitation from the Attorney General.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u114	It's a decision of 23 July, he should have done it by now. From July 23rd, he could have done his report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u115	The decision is until August. Let's be fair about the decision by the end of August, we voted it at the end of July.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u116	It's your choice! Do you follow Parliament's decision? I wonder if he'll be here to do his report by August... I don't understand why, when the D.A. says, "Well, we're doing it 3 months?" Well, this time do it 8 months! What's the difference?! People are standing outside every day!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u117	It's been 10 days since August, Mr. Kutev! Let's have a...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u118	But she, the D.A., if she can't make a report on her activities in 10 days, what does she do? How do bandits get caught if in 10 days...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u119	I understand what you want, thank you. I've given you enough time, I'll inform the Attorney General what a discussion has taken place in this Chamber. Otherwise, what we have requested from the Attorney General is that you personally requested it by the end of August to give a report. So there's no way in July, when we voted on it, August, to know what happened. Moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. The first question is to the Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov from the National Representative Georgi Mihailov on the disclosure of the Center for the Direction of Patients with CoVID-19. Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u120	Thank you, Madam President. [[Change of Presidents.]] Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Professor Angelov, my question is related formally to explaining what is the role of the Center for the Management of Patients with COVID-19, which was created by what was presented in the media a few days ago literally. But the issue is much more intense and I will then develop it after your response as a problem in Bulgaria and which stands on the agenda and needs to be resolved in the interest of the nation. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u121	Thank you. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u122	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mihailov, in the framework of a working meeting held at the Ministry of Health, an analysis of the epidemiological situation was carried out, the measures introduced to supervise the coronary infection and the difficulties found in the care of patients were discussed. In view of the need to ensure a proper and even distribution of patients with symptoms of COVID-19 their admission to appropriate medical facilities, depending on the degree of damage and shortening of the time for hospitalization of the complicated cases, a decision was made to open a Coordination Centre to be based on the territory of the Specialized Hospital for Active Treatment of Infectious and Parasitic Diseases. The centre is revealed on a functional basis and is evaluated by patients with doubt about the CIVID-19 and patients from two districts are served in Sofia-city and Sofia-district. It is also accessible to citizens without a personal doctor's direction, thus aiming to stop the self-loathing of patients seeking the possibility of medical examination and hospitalization through the medical facilities in the capital. Personal protective equipment, disinfectants, medical equipment, refrigerator, telephones, computers, which are related to the single COVID-19 information system, as well as a rest room are provided for the reception cabinet. The financial provision of the work teams on the first line is also provided. The main objective of the Coordination Centre is to receive a high quality and timely medical care. The main objective of the Coordination Centre is to provide a basic general examination, examination and treatment to a hospital or at home, depending on the course of the disease. The teams working in the center include a doctor, nurse, nurse and experts from the Sofia Regional Health Inspectorate and RZI Sofia-district. They have information on the number of free beds for uncomplicated running of COVID-19 and the number of resuscitation beds. After a primary triage of CSM teams, prospective patients are transported to the Coordination Centre, where the medical team makes an initial assessment of their health status and removes data on accompanying diseases and circumstances that could aggravate the course of the disease. At the discretion of doctors, a PCR test is performed to demonstrate coronavirus infection. If hospitalization is necessary, the medical team shall decide which medical facility the patient should be directed to. A partial epidemiological study shall also be carried out at the centre, including the collection of contact details of confirmed cases. The establishment of an organisation of the health activities related to COVID-19, their coordination and control are entrusted to the directors of RGIs, which should work closely with medical institutions. The disclosure of a single centre in which to perform triage of patients and to direct them to an appropriate medical facility depending on their individual condition and severity of the disease is an example of good practice for providing quality medical care that can be applied in other areas of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u123	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor, Mr. Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Professor Angelov, I now understand that this center actually has the meaning of a district centre, or mostly of an inter-district centre between Sofia-city and Sofia-district, and was presented perhaps in an incorrect way. But that's not the point. From the very beginning of the problem, COVID-19 many specialists raised the question that you mentioned, about the timely and correct triage of patients and the number of patients being tested. I dare say as a clinician, and I trust that this opinion will be taken into account that such a concentration of patients who have judged themselves as questionable for the CIVID-19 can hardly be effective even for one area. And the most important thing in the case in which Bulgaria continues to be located in one of the last places, I mean a million people, is the creation of centers for testing patients with PCR technology for COVID-19. I took the liberty of very detailed knowledge of the data in Bulgaria, they are exposed quite correctly and really makes a very unpleasant impression that in the first months of the existence of the problem and its announcement by the National Operational Headquarters the number of tests is disastrously minimal. Now the number has increased significantly, but if we take the statistics data and when we see what the measures are taken in the developed health care countries, we will see that Bulgaria is in the 24th place again, there are only countries after us that are small to us human contingent. The average number of tests in Bulgaria compared to the population of the Republic of Bulgaria so far is about 1 in 20. 25, while countries such as Russia, Great Britain, Germany, India, the United States of America have not significant, but in tens of times higher rates of research compared to a million population, which creates really the possibility that this is the real opportunity to be evaluated. Since I do not want to go in front of the honourable Members in detail that you know well as a doctor, with the initial evaluation without virological diagnosis, and PCR diagnosis, whether it will be the patient himself who is least prepared to evaluate his condition, and the doctor who will see him first is not relevant, as all respiratory infections are similar in their origin, as we say, in their clinical aura at the beginning with each other, and this triage will not be effective. Therefore, my request to you is, and I will allow myself in the next parliamentary controls, if any, to focus your attention on when a network will be created which will triage in a purely diagnostic way through these specific studies the patient so that they can be sifted out, as the question that we put a while ago in the parliamentary room,...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u125	The weather, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u126	I'm done, Mr. Chairman. ...it was that at the beginning of the problem with COVID-19, many strategic hospitals in Bulgaria, which are Pirogov, the Military Medical Academy, the hospital under your command Alexandrovska, were blocked by patients with COVID-19 and they perform strategic tasks in Bulgarian healthcare. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u127	Mr. Minister, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u128	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mihailov, the idea for the creation of this, as you called it, an inter-regional centre or area for triage of patients with COVID-19 is one thing and it is ensuring the protection of the health of the population in the territory of Sofia and Sofia, namely the protection of all citizens from travelling to patients with flu-like symptoms, free of charge, by urban transport or by a medical establishment, or seeking assistance from a personal doctor. Any patient who feels ill with flu-like symptoms can safely go to this centre, which is located in one place without going to the medical facilities or without seeking help from his personal physician with a view to unmixing the flows, you know the clean streams and the dirty streams. This is our first and main goal that we are pursuing. With regard to the issues that you have addressed, with the number of tests and the relevant indicators that assess the handling of a country with the epidemic and its control, I could boldly say that Bulgaria is one of the countries that is doing extremely well with this epidemic, especially taking into account the fact that there is absolutely no pressure at the moment on the hospital system or on the health care system in any direction. The numbers are extremely good. For the last month patients who are in hospitals have absolutely no dynamics such as the number of hospitalized, separately in the wards that are for conservative treatment, or those patients who need intensive treatment. So in terms of the number of tests, yes, this is one of the indicators that shows how the state is coping with control of an epidemic, but the indicators we are tracking are much more and in all my collection with them I dare say that Bulgaria is doing well and so far it has managed well with the control and spread of the infection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u129	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question to Minister Angelov is from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Nona Yotova about the problems of people with specific diseases Malnutrition and malabsorption and the measures that the Ministry of Health will take to solve them. You have the floor, Mrs. Yotova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u130	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, our question is about the problems of people with specific diseases of malnutrition and mal "extremely low weight, malnourishment and inability to properly absorb nutrients. These diseases require special medical foods, but the National Health Insurance Fund, even if they are health insurance, does not provide support for the purchase of such products. This is not the first time we have raised this issue and we will continue to place it on every person in Bulgarian healthcare because many Bulgarians suffer from various diseases that lead to extremely low weight, i.e. an illness which in the International Classification of Diseases has found a definition with the concept of Malnutrition. These people regularly have to rely on charity to provide life support medical supplies suitable for them. They call for help to charities because they don't get one from the Health Insurance Fund. All countries affected by the problem express their desire to take over these expensive foods entirely from the Health Insurance Fund, and for all diseases that lead to dangerously low weight, but to this day the register takes over medical foods only for a limited range of diseases. In the previous response of the health minister on this topic, we were assured that almost everything is fine in providing special foods, but we continue to meet these people directly and indirectly affected by the problem that raised the issue. They keep looking for us because their problems remain.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u131	Please ask the question. Time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u132	These people do not feel the concern of the state and do not remain with the feeling that attention is being paid to them. In this regard, Minister, we ask you to answer the questions: How is the medical food issue settled in the other countries of the European Union? You as Minister, once you get acquainted with the problem, what are you going to do about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u133	Thank you. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u134	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, dear Mrs. Yotova, before I answer your question, I am open to meeting these people every single day, so I am counting on you to give me coordinates to meet the patients you are talking about. Under the Health Insurance Act, NHIF pays for home treatment medicinal products, medical devices and dietary foods for special medical purposes. Any health-insured person with a disease associated with the need to receive special purpose foods to meet specific nutritional needs may benefit from these rights if the disease is included in the list of diseases under art. 45, para. 4 of the Health Insurance Act. Except in accordance with the Health Insurance Act, dietary foods can also be paid outside its scope. For the treatment of rare diseases in persons up to the age of 18 they shall be paid in accordance with Ordinance No 2 of 27 March 2019. The list of dietary foods for special medical purposes paid in full or in part by the NHIF shall be prepared by the NHIF, validated by its Supervisory Board and published on the NHIF website and may be supplemented once a year. In order to include a disease in the list of diseases for which home treatment on the territory of the country NHIF pays medicinal products, medical devices and diet foods, an official opinion should be obtained from specialists in the relevant medical specialty. If the opinion of the Expert Council is positive, a reasoned proposal shall be made to the Supervisory Board of the NHIF for the inclusion in the list of the disease concerned with a specific ICB code. The criteria for determining diseases for which home treatment NHIF pays fully or partially dietary foods for special medical purposes are laid down in Ordinance No 7 of 6 November 2015. In accordance with art. 45, para. 5 of the Health Insurance Act, if any changes to the List of Diseases leading to an increase in the costs of the NHIF for medicinal products, medical devices and dietary foods for special medical purposes are envisaged, they should comply with the NHIF Budget Act for the following calendar year. Malnutrition and malabsorption can be achieved as a result of many different diseases. For patients in such conditions treatment is provided in the package of health activities guaranteed by the budget of the NHIF................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Depending on the underlying disease leading to malnutrition, treatment can be carried out through clinical pathways from the relevant field of.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The scope of the health activities guaranteed by the budget of the NHIF includes a specific clinical path No 83, the Treatment of persons with infractions............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The algorithm of this path provides the possibility of diagnostic specification, treatment and determination of subsequent therapeutic behaviour in patients with malnutrition in children and adults. From the information provided by the NHIF until now, there have been no opinions or suggestions from the expert advice to supplement the diseases to the List. In particular, the necessary measures are taken to ensure payment by the NHIF or outside the scope of the mandatory health insurance of diet food for special medical purposes, in accordance with the mechanisms and provisions laid down for that purpose in the legal and regulatory framework, so that such foods can be prescribed as medical therapy to all persons who are indicated for treatment. The Ministry of Health is committed to the problems of all patients and our aim is to guarantee access to treatment, including the above listed conditions, within the possible financial resources, following the principles of equal treatment of patients with different diseases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u135	Thank you, dear Minister. Line, Mrs. Yotova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u136	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you very much for your willingness to meet these people. They've wanted this for a long time. That's very nice. They're listening to us right now, and I'm sure they'll be very happy. They paid attention to this matter before Christmas break, when they asked me in all the mailboxes of colleagues to put in some cards that told the problem to these people. There was also a card that was painted by a 20-year-old boy who weighed 18 kilos. In general, they are doing so now via SMS, through all kinds of ways collecting money to provide such foods, which, as I recall, were somewhere around BGN 1000, i.e. impossible amounts that they need to live at all. Thank you. I'll talk to them right away, they want a round table to be done, and I'll try to let you know what happens next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Yotova. Do you have an asshole, Mr. Angelov? I won't. We continue with the next question to Minister Angelov by the National Representative Anna Slavova about the National Multiprofile Children's Hospital.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u138	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mr. Angelov, you inherit, I will apologize for the word I use in this House. We have a procedure and a contract in spite of public discontent. Shortly after that, we have the Prime Minister's intervention, outside of any legal authority, with the words: "That's why we decided to bring the old building down." "Two months later your predecessor comes out and says: "I can't agree that I have to terminate the contract that went through the whole procedure without violations." This means that for the rest of my life, I must not leave the courtroom. My question is, are you, Mr. Minister, going to be the one to break the treaty and procedure? If not, how will you fulfill Prime Minister Boyko Borisov's commitment to the National Citizens' Initiative for a Real Children's Hospital? And in general, if you could introduce us to how you see the future of this so important project for society!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Slavova. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u140	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Slavova, before answering your questions, I would like to say that on Monday 14th, we are organizing a large round table to which all interested parties are invited as doctors who will be in this hospital, so all public organizations, expert advice on pediatrics, national consultants, journalists. It is open, where we want to have a full public debate, a public discussion about all the functionality of the children's hospital................... what aims it must achieve, and what is the way on which we must reach these goals? As regards your question, a working group was formed in the Ministry in January 2019 to prepare a structure and plan for the deployment of clinics and wards for the establishment of the National Multiprofile Children's Hospital. The working group includes experts from the Ministry of Health with relevant professional competence and leading specialists in the field of child health. The structure of the National Multiprofile Children's Hospital was prepared, which is included as part of the technical assignment of the public procurement. In July 2019 the contract for the selection of a contractor for the construction, design, construction and its copyright supervision was launched. In the terms laid down in the Public Procurement Act, the Chamber of Architects in Bulgaria appealed to the Commission for Protection of Competition The decision of the Minister of Health for the opening of the above-mentioned contract. The complaint was left without respect by the KPC as unfounded. The decision of the KPC was confirmed by the Supreme Administrative Court. Three offers were submitted under the contract. By decision of 17 January 2020, a contractor was appointed for the contract and a contract was concluded on 2 April 2020 with the selected contractor,................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. On 21 July 2020, the Council of Ministers adopted an order for the establishment of a single shareholder company with a state participation in the capital. The purpose of the activity of the company is to carry out all legal activities related to the organization and control of the construction and commissioning of an object of national importance, the construction of a National Multiprofile Children's Hospital, as well as any other illegal activity. The rights of the state will be exercised by the Minister of Health. In this way a single structure is created to carry out the organization and control of the construction of the National Multiprofile Children's Hospital until its completion as a construction site, its assembly with equipment, medical equipment and its becoming ready for work as a medical facility within the meaning of the Law on Medical Institutions. During the months of June-July 2020, the Ministry of Health held meetings between the representatives of the Ministry of Health, the National Citizens' Initiative for a Real Children's Hospital, the contractor for the contract for the construction of the National Multiprofile Children's Hospital and the Medical and Design Community. The purpose of the meetings was to discuss all points of view in order to define a principled action plan to ensure the construction of a modern National Multiprofile Children's Hospital, meeting all standards in the field of children's health and hospital design. The Parties agreed in principle to establish a public council and a management team with the participation of representatives of the Civil Initiative, professional organisations, experts in order to support the process of building the children's hospital, to be able to exercise control, and to be able to express opinions, opinions and recommendations in the implementation of the same. At present, talks are still being held between the Parties on the composition and functions of the Public Council and its management team. In conclusion, we would like to inform you that it is extremely important for the Ministry of Health to build the National Multiprofile Children's Hospital in which every child in need of treatment to benefit from the highest achievable medical standards, complex medical care and health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u141	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mrs. Slavova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u142	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Minister, you answered some of my additional questions. One was regarding the Public Council and the fact that this composition, which currently has, is definitely not satisfying organisations that want to exercise control and participate in the process of the overall procedure for the implementation of a children's hospital. I still don't know what the functions of the newly created company are? You said it was created two months ago, and at the moment nothing else is known about it. It was created... how exactly will it incorporate the already completed procedure and what is the purpose of creating a commercial company, when we already have some completed procedure that can hardly be changed? Maybe you can explain that further in time. I am pleased that you are raising the issue of public discussion on the 14th, which you claim to have invited all interested parties. The truth is, exactly half an hour ago, I accidentally came across this information. I would be delighted if the MPs are also part of these stakeholders and could attend this public discussion. We don't have that kind of invitation right now. Worse yet, the National Citizens' Initiative, I dare say, is not invited. Would you mind correcting that pass? And it is good that when such a public discussion is being made, it meets absolutely all the stakeholders so that the dialogue you have taken can be more effective than this so far. We hope for your good desire to implement the procedure really well from now on.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Slavova. Hole, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u144	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Slavova, regarding the citizens' initiative you claim not to be invited, I say they are invited. They've been spoken to today. The invitations have been sent. I can show you the emails sent to them with the invitation attached. With regard to the MPs who say they are not invited, I stressed that we have invited all doctors and specialists to express opinions regarding their purely expert potential related to the construction of the National Multiprofile Children's Hospital. When this public discussion is concluded, rest assured that I will best respectfully and in detail acquaint all MPs who are interested in what conclusions we have reached, what are the expert opinions that are proposed, which are consensual, what is the way we will go, how we will go on this path, what the composition of the Public Council will be, what the principles of its work will be. With regard to the company established. You know that the medical establishments in Bulgaria are commercial companies. This commercial company was created to be able to control and coordinate the processes related to the possible construction of the children's hospital, which was mentioned earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u145	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question to Minister Angelov is from the MPs Valentina Naydenova and Filip Popov regarding the participation of medical standards, pharmaco-therapeutic manuals and Good Medical Practice Rules, respectively The rules for good medical practice of dentists in the preparation of volumes and prices, in the valuation of individual types of medical assistance included in the National Framework Treaty, in determining the specific values of volumes and prices of individual types of medical care included in the National Framework Treaty. You have the floor, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u146	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! In economic estimates and in the algorithms of the healing process and in determining the socially acceptable costs of medical care essential for the determination of the specific size have medical standards under art. 6, para. 1 of the Law on Medical Institutions, pharmaco-therapeutic manuals according to art. 259 of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, as well as the Rules on Good Medical Practice of Doctors and Doctors of Dental Medicine, adopted and established in accordance with art. 5, t. 4 of the Law on Word Organizations of Doctors and Doctors of Dental Medicine. At the same time, in art. 55, para. 2, p. 3a of the Health Insurance Act is entrusted to the National Framework Treaty to determine the content of the volumes and prices of individual types of medical aid financed by public funds. Our question to you is: what is the participation and how much are the medical standards developed and approved by the Minister of Health, pharmaco-therapeutic guides, as well as the rules for good medical practice.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u148	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Naydenova, Dear Mr. Popov, 41 regulations are in place at present, with which the Minister of Health has established medical standards in medical specialties or individual medical activities. According to the amendment of the Law on Medical Institutions from 2019 ............................................... 6, para. 1, medical standards shall be validated by a regulation of the Minister of Health in order to harmonise and regulate their content. Under current legislation, medical standards lay down minimum mandatory requirements for structures for carrying out activities in certain medical specialities or the implementation of individual medical activities to ensure quality prevention, diagnosis, treatment, rehabilitation and healthcare of the patient. A draft regulation on validating medical standards in medical specialities and activities is currently being drawn up, introducing requirements to ensure the quality of medical assistance provided in line with modern medical achievements. It will be published for public consultation by the end of September. Pharmaco-therapeutic guidelines shall be validated by regulations of the National Council on prices and reimbursement of medicinal products on the basis of art. 259, para. 1, t. 4 of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. At present, 23 such regulations have been issued, which represent the majority. The other manuals will also be issued after the end of their public consultation procedure regarding the publication of the website of the National Council for Prices and Reimbursement of Medicinal Products. Under the Law on Word Organizations of Doctors and Doctors of Dental Medicine, the Bulgarian Medical Union and the Bulgarian Dental Union have an obligation to draw up and adopt the Rules of Good Medical Practice. Consequently, the Executive Agency "Medician supervision" shall express its opinion on them and, if it is positive, the rules shall be laid down for the approval by the Minister of Health. With the transitional and final provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Institutions, promulgated in the State Gazette, issue 54 of 2020, the initial deadline for drawing up the rules has been amended by 31 August 2020. According to the legislation, when the word organizations do not propose for validation by the Minister of Health adopted by them Rules of Good Medical Practice, the same shall be drawn up by the Executive Agency and shall be proposed for approval by the Minister of Health within three months of the expiry of the period set for their preparation by the word organizations. Currently there are current rules for good medical practice of dentists in the Republic of Bulgaria, issued by the Minister of Health, promulgated in the State Gazette, issue 41 of 8 May 2020, but the rules for good medical practice of doctors have not yet been established. The value of medical aid purchased by the National Health Insurance Fund should be based on methodologies that are part of national framework contracts. The same may not contain requirements that are regulated by medical, health information and standards for financial activity under art. 6 of the Law on Medical Institutions, with the Rules on Good Medical Practice of Doctors and respectively with the Rules on Good Medical Practice of Dentistry Doctors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u149	Thank you, dear Minister. Line, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u150	Dear Minister, it has not been clear from the answer which medical standards and let the whole of Bulgaria hear this, we are waiting for them to come out?! Which pharmaco-therapeutic guides didn't come out and wait for action in this direction? It is a shame why the Bulgarian Medical Union is slowing down the rules for good medical practice for many of us and for the people who are out there. Something really embarrassing! But it's not just embarrassing when it comes to money. Because I do not know if you as Minister of Health will want and will finally be able to value the clinical pathways and procedures, including those for medical activities included in the National Framework Treaty. You will agree that for any such activity as any other and medical activity, written rules are required, and in order to write them, it is necessary to have basic parameters and documents such as these to be able to calculate the cost of medical services. I think it is wrong for some colleagues to complain that the valuation has not happened and the reasons are not just with them. Any delay in this process we believe is detrimental to both the National Health Insurance Fund and the contractors and the health insurance. Because the valuation, and the valuation at current prices, is the basis on which we need to step up so that we can build the health system up and only then look at the model, okay, if it doesn't work, we'll change it or not. Value, again, value, Minister! I think that's the key and the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. Hole, Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u152	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The medical standards that will be uploaded by the end of September are all those standards that have not yet existed. All working groups and expert councils were completed last year. They will all be uploaded in one big regulation. This regulation is currently in the Legal Directorate of the Ministry of Health, where the last details of it are being processed and I told you that by the end of September it will be uploaded to the public consultation page. With regard to the evaluation of clinical pathways, I would just like to remind you that from 1 August 2020, the value of all clinical pathways was increased by 10% and all of them were increased by 20 BGN. in connection with the cod epidemic. With regard to the valuation of clinical standards, what you are talking about regarding the relationship between the medical standard and the evaluation of clinical pathways, I suppose you have an idea in the direction that we are talking about writing standards that refer to the quality of each medical service with indicators for their implementation and to the so-called acceptable levels for the performance of each of the indicators on which we could talk about the valuation and connection of the standard to clinical pathways. At the moment, the prices of the clinical pathways that are operating, we all know that they are underfunded, and that is no secret to any of us. A lot of them are adequately valued. We know in which profile majors. I would like to tell you that any efforts that depend on the Minister of Health will be made to change this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u153	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question to Minister Angelov is from the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Ilian Timchev and Desislav Taskov on the implementation of the project "Support for the development of the emergency medical care system." Mr. Timchev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Minister, in the Programme period 2014 - 2020 was provided for the implementation of the project "Support for the development of emergency medical care." As the period expires in three months and, according to our information, the main events in it have not started, our question to you is: will the project be implemented Support for the development of the emergency medical care system and what is your time schedule for this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u155	Thank you, dear Mr. Timchev. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u156	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Doctor Timchev, briefly my answer to your question is yes! And in full, the Ministry of Health as a corrective beneficiary of the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth" 2014-2020 implements the above-mentioned Project for the main purpose of ensuring an appropriate effective, health infrastructure, contributing to improving quality and safety in providing medical assistance and ensuring equal access to quality medical care in emergency situations. The project has a total budget of 163 million. 897 thousand. BGN 815. and 60 C.E. and implementation period until 23 October 2021. Under the general conditions for the implementation of the grant contract, the beneficiary, in the case of the Ministry of Health, may request, where necessary, an extension of the period of implementation of the project activities, provided that the period does not exceed the eligibility period of the expenditure under the Operational Programme. I inform you that the Project has concluded: 3 contracts for delivery, installation and commissioning of medical equipment and specialized medical equipment for the needs of emergency rooms in 34 state hospitals; 27 emergency medical centres; 176 emergency services and teams exported to them. The delivery of two contracts is complete, as in the emergency rooms in the country.. in the emergency medical centers, and in the affiliates are delivered: 238 units of refrigerators for medicines; 68 pieces of nebhoscopes; 102 sets of ophthalmoscopes, otoscopes and 102 pieces of laryngoscopy kit for children and adults. The third contract for the delivery of 3070 medical equipment includes: 68 respirators; 491 aspirators; 667 infusion pumps; 204 transport respirators; 204 portable defibrillators; 663 monitors; 272 electrocardiographs; 287 respirators; 44 fluid heating systems and 170 trolleys/cycles for cardiopopular rescitation. In the implementation of the third contract will be implemented in full the activities of the Project in relation to the supply of medical equipment. A contract for the delivery of 2748 medical equipment of non-diagnostic type is to be concluded, which includes: 244 beds for resuscitation; 724 lamps for examination and bactericidal; 588 beds for medical diagnosis; 214 stretchers with vertical lift; 68 carts for patients; 248 wheelchairs; 628 curtains and 34 combined devices for internal and external temperature control and for hospital bed. There is also a procedure for selecting a contractor for delivery of 13 689 medical and technological furniture, which includes: computer configurations, medicine cabinets and consumables, multifunctional carts, auxiliary tables, desks, lockers, chairs and more. Currently in implementation of the project are announced procedures for selecting performers in the other main activities for the project: construction and installation activities, construction supervision, copyright supervision, publicity and audit. Some of the public procurement contracts have been concluded and contracts with selected contractors have been concluded. It is planned by the end of September 2020 to start the construction of some of the sites envisaged for intervention. In view of the fact that the Ministry of Health is in the process of finalising public procurement for construction works for the needs of the outpatient structures of Emergency Aid, it is planned to phase out constructions in other areas of the country. In implementation of the project were delivered 192 new equipped ambulances from the total estimated 400 pieces for delivery. With the new ambulances there is a phased replacement of the existing fleet for all medical teams of the emergency medical centers and their affiliates in the country. By the end of November 2020, another 68 medical vehicles will be delivered. The delivery of the remaining number of ambulances will continue regularly, on schedule in 2021. I inform you that with Decree No 211 of 13 August 2020, additional expenditure of 2 million has been approved by the Council of Ministers. 532,000. lv. under the budget of the Ministry of Health for 2020 for the purchase of modern medical vehicles, I am graduating, Mr. President, ambulances with increased clearance type B with the necessary medical equipment and equipment. In this regard, a procedure for selecting contractors for the delivery of 42 ambulances with increased type B passability with the relevant emergency medical equipment and equipment is to be changed. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I take this opportunity to inform you that the Ministry of Health, as well as all stakeholders, are making great efforts to implement the project activities in a qualitative and full capacity to improve the access to emergency medical care provided throughout the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u157	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The line, Mr. Timchev. I hope you don't mind that there is no possibility for the Minister to be comprehensive. And I'm interested in that question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course I don't mind. I've come from the emergency medical system. This project has started to be prepared and implemented even before 2014. It is now 2020. Six years is not enough for our country to implement such an important, priority and for the last three management projects, such as the Project for Modernization of Emergency Medical Assistance. You are the third minister who responds to me in the same way with the answer, but the years go by and the project is never realized. From what you've listed to me, everything happens in bulk to bring in some equipment, supplies, other aids for the emergency medical care system. Some of them are not yet in use, to take effect to fulfil their main purpose for which they are intended. The question arises in me: is the administration of the Ministry of Health able to complete this project properly, and will you specifically take any action relating to negotiations with the European Commission regarding the extension of the deadline for the implementation of this project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u159	Thank you, Mr. Timchev. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u160	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Doctor Timchev, yes, the project really started a long time ago. I wish it was finished, too. Everything that is happening on the project so far has respected all the legal provisions that are scheduled in the Republic of Bulgaria. All working groups have worked throughout the period.. We exclude the time of the coronavirus when the collection was impossible and this, of course, led to the delay of the project in this direction. I can't agree with you that nothing is done. On the contrary, I believe that all designated in the Project wasps its implementation, namely the technical equipment of emergency medical care subsidiaries, emergency medical centers, emergency wards in medical facilities that are designated for repair, and, of course, equipment with new ambulances and new equipment is proceeding within all deadlines. All supply contracts with equipment and ambulances have been concluded, except for the contract I told you about the high-pass ambulances. It was announced, therefore no performer appeared, as the price was extremely low. Thanks to our mutual efforts and thanks to the Bulgarian government 2 million were allocated. 532,000. lv. from the budget with which these ambulances are to be purchased. The announcement of high-pass ambulances is forthcoming in order to ensure the security of subsidiaries in places located in high-mountain terrains and with difficulty to move. I believe that the Bulgarian Government and specifically the Ministry of Health will fit within the deadlines for the implementation of the entire project. Moreover, the construction works start by the end of this month September. As I stressed, in the Northwestern region, the launch begins in other regions as well, depending on the completion of the procedures for copyright and construction supervision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u161	Thank you, dear Minister. This was the last question for Minister Angelov. Thank you for participating in parliamentary control today. We continue with questions to Mr. Emil Dimitrov, Minister of Environment and Water. The first question to him is from the MPs Nikola Dinkov and Violeta Zheleva on the implementation of timely and qualitative monitoring of the water in the Maritsa river and the groundwater that fed the wells along its river. You have the floor, Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u162	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, the problems with water resources do not end only with their quantity. In recent years, the pollution of the water sources has increased, as was the case with the eco-crash in the Maritsa River, when this caused the death of cattle, which drank water from a canal drained in the Maritsa River, near the town of Dimitrovgrad. This required stopping drinking water in the settlements, which are supplied by wells along the Maritsa river for several days. This incident and the dire situation that has been created put on the agenda and responsibility of the institutions responsible for the purity of drinking water and the preventive actions to be carried out in this direction. It is not serious in such an accident, in such a local eco-crash, to say that, you see, these cattle were in the wrong place at the wrong time. Does this mean that if there wasn't this death of 29 cows, the citizens would know about this pollution?! That is why the question is much more important: should institutions wait for eco-crash to take measures to control the quality of water resources, or must they fulfil their obligations by carrying out regular monitoring under European and national law? Dear Minister, the responsibility is yours under the Water Act and Regulation No 1. Permanent monitoring shall be carried out for groundwater and surface water. How can an ordinary citizen obtain information about the quality of water at a certain point, at a certain point where monitoring is being done? He needs to know where, first, there is such a point, what the results are. Give an example of which page, from which site a person who is interested in this topic, can understand what the quality of water is. And my question to you is: will automatic monitoring stations be created in this connection to explore the surface waters of the Maritsa River, and also groundwater feeding wells? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u163	Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Jeleva, dear Mr. Dinkov! My short answer is: more than 5000 water sources are available in Bulgaria - 5000 stations will not be possible. Therefore monitoring is carried out once a month and is checked. Otherwise, the costs will be higher than for the water supply for those who will use the 5,000 water sources. To your other question, before I read, you may have to give me the floor later. This was a lesson for all of us. Anyone can wash their tractor with pesticides in the river 10 km later to find out that there is something and look for the tractor and it will be in the garage a long time ago. Anyone could have dropped water in this channel. The investigative authorities check who, why, when, if it happened in previous years, whether it was in any annual repair and so on. We've only established the consequences. There was no eco-crash because at this point we were missing three dams and actually the concentration, except for the canal, fell sharply. I was there, I saw the cows, the view wasn't pleasant, we did an autopsy, they were pregnant. It shouldn't have happened. A man could have passed. There could have been a man there at that very moment! It is this irresponsible attitude of many institutions, of many users of water sources or of channels that is the reason why we tighten control. It's been a minute, I apologize. Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Jeleva, in response to your question, I inform you the following: According to the Water Act, water monitoring is organised and managed by the Minister of Environment and Water and is implemented in coordination with several institutions, the Executive Agency for the Environment, which conducts monitoring in relation to the quality of surface and groundwater; the Executive Agency for the Study and Maintenance of the Danube River.The National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology at the Minister of Education and Science in terms of the amount of surface and groundwater; the Institute of Oceanology at the Bulgarian Academy of Water and Waters. The data shall be reported and analysed for each pool water management area in the Swimming Directorate and shall be the basis for assessing the state of the water bodies. The monitoring shall be carried out under programmes approved by the Minister of Environment and Water developed by the pool directorates in accordance with the water body specification and their characteristics. Water monitoring shall ensure a coherent and comprehensive overview of the state of water in each pool management area. Water users, however, need to carry out their own monitoring, with permits defining both obligations and specific requirements for sites and monitoring programmes. Anyone operating with water must also monitor. Where water users are water operators within the meaning of the Water Supply and Sewerage Services Regulation Act..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2, and provide the water supply service for drinking purposes, are also required to take all necessary measures to ensure safe and clean drinking water to consumers. It's not the Ministry of Environment and you're leading what in the whole country, everyone on the tap, sits on the water meter and checks it out. Monitoring of the quality of water for drinking purposes is also carried out and data for monitoring of the bodies of the Ministry of Health there is also monitoring. By the way, water quality is an obligation of RZI. The Minister of Health shall direct the monitoring of the quality of water used for drinking purposes and shall authorise the use of water for drinking purposes in cases where it does not comply with the statutory requirements. The requirement for the construction of automatic monitoring stations is not introduced in the Water Act and each water user has the opportunity to choose the type and equipment of the monitoring point. The country has automatic monitoring stations for surface water quality, part of which are built under projects financed under the PHARE programme. For the swimming pool of the Maritsa river are built stations on the Maritsa river in the town of Pazardzhik, the town of Plovdiv, Svilengrad and on the Dam of Topolnitsa. At stations, ten biochemical and nine hydrometeorological indicators may be monitored. The observation frequency at these stations is twice every 24 hours, giving average values. This, for its part, does not allow for registration or full assessment of instantaneous, spontaneous pollution. In conclusion, given the information presented, it can be said that automatic monitoring stations can give a wider opportunity for early notification, but also pose many challenges to their users in terms of both data verification and the need to provide higher qualified expertise and, last but not least, resources for their maintenance and service.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u165	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Line, Mr. Dinkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u166	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, I understand from your answer that the Ministry of Environment and Water does not have the capacity to create a system that can control the quality of water from all water sources because it is an expensive event. But ultimately, people's health is even more expensive. In this regard, I think that the Ministry of Environment and Water, as well as the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, must create some system so that the relevant stations In this regard, there are very serious gaps in our country. If we have to talk about the water, we have so far talked about the lack of many places in the country, it is high time to talk about its purity and next year to become a year of clean water. According to the European Commission's review of the implementation of environmental policies in Bulgaria for 2019 there are significant deficiencies in establishing the quality of all categories of water in Bulgaria and the information for monitoring the quality elements in them. Particularly disturbing is the fact that much more of the water sites are still in unknown condition, as regular monitoring of the chemical condition is not carried out on them. This conclusion is not ours, this conclusion is drawn by the European Commission. In this regard, in addition to monitoring the quality of surface water on the rivers for our region, it is extremely important to do this thing. To be done for underground waters as municipalities are supplied along the river Maritsa from wells and water in some places is extremely bad. In Simeonovgrad and in Svilengrad, the amount of manganese is between 10 and 15 times more, and in other municipalities there is uranium.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u167	Please complete your thought.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u168	A few seconds. I think these issues should stand before the Ministry of Environment and Water and be dealt with through the budget for 2021 or through the Operational Programme of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u169	Thank you. Mr. Minister, the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I like it very much: The health of the people is expensive. Do they love each other less? Do they hate them more? The system is what it is throughout Europe. By the way, for the 52 sites for which we are responsible, 16 of them are the dams from which we give. There are treatment stations everywhere and it's being monitored. That you in Haskovo have entered some springs and so the state has given a hell of a lot of money to pass on to other drillings, I think that's where the matter is solved. Of course, the final solution is to get water from Krichim. But that's not what I can decide. For the dams we are responsible for, quality is monitored. You can't make five thousand water sources, some of Roman times, anywhere to make huge treatment plants or monitoring stations. That's nowhere in the world. It's only in Haskovo a multi-mandated electoral area as one proposal, right? The important thing is to say something: some system, we don't know what, but there has to be one, and it's good to do it. Nowhere in Europe is there, but we in Bulgaria will be the first, predict it for next year! This universal well-being! You asked where he had information? Every day on the site of the Ministry of Environment and Water comes this reference. There is no need to practice whether there is a dam, whether it is full, whether it is empty, how full it is, how much the flow, how much the drain, how much the dead volume is. Every day that reference is in public. When I show it anywhere, I get this answer like this: well, he's a grandfather in the village where to get into this site to see it? What about the same way Grandpa in the village where to get in to see her if there's a monitoring station on your drilling? Sorry, that's the publicity. We're running it on the website. We can't go from house to house every day to deliver this reference. However, anyone who really cares and can access the Internet can read it. And there's no need to speculate. It's a good system. It can be perfected. It can be built up, but the cost of building such a system anywhere, of each well, will exceed the amount by which new plumbing can be made, to reduce losses, to do, several pumping groups and there to measure. Because like five drillings, you collect the pump group by measuring it, you measure the five water quality at the same time. And as for the uranium in Haskovo, you have a new drilling. The state has given a lot of money, and it's already taken from another well. As for manganese in Svilengrad, was there never manganese in the last thousand years, not a hundred times higher standards? But it's always been there! But now you want someone to do everything at once in the country a huge revolution. For many years the approach with the reserve water supply of the cities has been missed. There's only one power supply, but there's no backup because it's going to cost. Do not ask now for additional costs that will never recover and will raise the cost of water immensely much. Let us also step on the fact that people want at acceptable prices, and you now want to shower it repeatedly, as nowhere in Europe is done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u171	In Svilengrad, in Simeonovgrad, no one uses it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u172	Minister Dimitrov is asked by the National Representative Krasimir Yankov about the water monitoring policy in 2020. You have the floor, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u173	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is about water monitoring in 2020. Mr. Minister, what is the implementation of monitoring programmes monitoring the quality of surface and groundwater in the Republic of Bulgaria since the beginning of 2020? At what frequency are samplings made on the monitoring programme for monitoring surface water purity? What are the generalized results for the state of surface water for the last six months on the territory of Bulgaria, given the environmental catastrophes in Varna Lake and the subsequent in the Maritsa River? Is there an immediate danger to the health of the population in these regions? Is the amount of resource base available to monitor surface water? At what frequency are samplings made on the monitoring programme for monitoring the frequency of groundwater, which are in the portfolio of the Ministry of Environment and Water? What are the results of it? Will another ecological disaster in the Maritsa River and before that in the Varna Lake affect the opinion of clean water in Bulgaria on a European and global scale? What are the environmental disaster prevention policies and the programmes and methods put in place for the prevention of environmental catastrophes of MOEWs, such as those in these cases? The adequate capacity for monitoring the chemical state of water bodies is a mandatory condition for the adequate implementation of European and Bulgarian legislation and policies, as it provides data on subsequent planning and taking timely action to eliminate pollution. According to the European Commission's review of the implementation of Bulgaria's environmental policies for 2019 there are significant shortcomings in establishing the quality of all categories of water in Bulgaria and the information for monitoring the quality elements in them. What have you done about the findings?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u174	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Iankov, in Varna, a ship broke the pipe, except to ban the ships in Varna Lake. In Dimitrovgrad, there is a disposal of fertilizer substances other than banning fertilizers. I can't go after every captain on a ship, and I can't go after anyone who's renovating their factory or washing their tanks. I can't be there either. We establish violations, sanction as you in this National Assembly have adopted the Law. So I apply the Law as you have accepted it. In answer to your question, I provide the following information: In accordance with the Water Act, measurements, observations, field and laboratory studies on water quality are carried out by the Executive Agency for Environment, coastal and sea waters............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Monitoring at national level is carried out improved by an order of the Minister of Environment and leads programs that are prepared for the four basin management areas. The programmes shall be updated annually, covering the examination of all points in accordance with the monitoring programmes developed in river basin management plans, as well as emerging problems where necessary to be monitored in due time. Since the beginning of 2020, monitoring programmes have been implemented regularly by the Environment Executive Agency. No sampling was carried out between 13 March and the end of May in relation to the declared state of emergency. Normal implementation was restored in early July. During the epidemiological situation, the Executive Agency has responded to all signals of water pollution received. No matter what, from a coronavirus, they went all over neighborhoods, neighborhoods, all kinds of false signals in 99% to take samples. For surface water monitoring, control programmes shall be developed and, where necessary, research monitoring to determine the environmental status, chemical substances, so-called priority substances for chemical assessment. For the first half of 2020, according to the monitoring of surface water, including results of own monitoring and of pollution signals, from all the "955 water bodies are observed deviations from the standards as follows: - in 367 bodies of water - 38% of all the main physical and chemical indicators; - in 108 bodies of water - 11% by specific substances; 42 bodies of water, 4% of all bodies of water by priority substances. In the event of excesses in the monitoring data and results obtained from own monitoring, they shall be published on a monthly basis on the pages of the pool directorates. Water users are obliged to conduct their own monitoring. The majority of these deviations are related to characteristic and periodic pollutions from existing unresolved problems related to the discharge of uncleaned and waste water from settlements; partially built sewer systems or not for smaller settlements; diffuse pollution from agricultural activities; discharge of waste water from industrial sites; drainage waters from former uranium, metal ore mining sites, as well as by accidental pollution that was recently occurring in the rivers of Jugovska, Chepelarska and Maritsa, mainly related to long-standing or active industrial activities. With regard to the resource base for carrying out water monitoring, I inform you that there is a specialized directorate in the Executive Environment Agency covering the Central Laboratory of Sofia and 14 other territorial units in the country and all laboratories are equipped with the necessary equipment for carrying out analysis of surface and groundwater. The total number of points for physical and chemical monitoring of surface waters on the territory of the country is 518 and the frequency of monitoring carried out according to the measured indicators varies from 4 to 12 times per year. The total number of hydrobiological monitoring points of the Bulgarian rivers in the country is 699. The Executive Agency shall assign activities to external contractors under the Public Procurement Act. The implementation of fish monitoring for rivers in 82 points has been commissioned. On phytoplankton for category For monitoring of groundwater, control and operational monitoring programmes are being developed and 169 underground bodies covering different depths and properties of water horizons are defined for the country. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In 2020, the Executive Agency carried out dry-cleaning monitoring for 126 monitoring points and 402 operational monitoring points. I graduated.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u176	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for further questions, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u177	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, two supplementary questions. The monitoring of the chemical status of water in Bulgaria, as you said, is carried out by the Environmental Executive Agency at the Ministry of Environment on the basis of established monitoring programs under art. Art. 151, Art. 169 of the Water Act, as well as on the basis of a broader research monitoring framework resulting from the need to establish the chemical status of surface, groundwater and waste water. My question to you is: are the monitoring programmes implemented? You replied that during the declared pandemic from 13 March to 31 May there were no punctures. You didn't fulfill the established plans. Is that right?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u178	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u179	The Commission's 2019 report clearly recommends improving the capacity and monitoring system, including chemical monitoring of water, groundwater, waste, in order to take follow-up measures and ensure water quality. What has been taken to implement your recommendations? You, with the answer you gave to the questioning, clearly announce that you are not performing your duties. However, if you could answer these two questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u180	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Surprisingly, Bulgaria had a coronavirus crisis. During the coronavirus crisis I ordered all employees to take turns one week to come, the others to be home with a computer, exported jobs. We created a very slender organization, including a spare ministry, if I get sick, who can replace me, move to another place, but continue the work. All this time our pool directorates and all the other control bodies did not stop doing their work. Only the directors left, two or three experts and two or three inspectors and piercers. Every signal that was coming, and we were flooded with false signals, including I once went personally because there were no people on the lake before Pancharevo, there were greasy spots. We went there, there's no stains. They went in on a boat. There's no stains. We called the person who said it, he said: now I have work to do, I can't come. This happens daily, repeatedly for the Sofia region. They're called to the Palaqueria, up in Samokov, and then they call Iskar, downstairs, near Mezdra, where we're headed by Basaenova. They're constantly being called for any signals. They responded to all the signals. But some of these checks that have been ordered not to be for the relevant period, but for a little longer. During the coronavirus, I allowed people not to go to neighborhoods, not to meet people, not to put themselves at risk, including buying thermal cameras for all the territorial institutions that we have, so that I could protect them as much as possible. I let them work from home. I've given them permission to dilute the controls. They appeared on every signal, including a fake to check. The work has not been damaged, but if only in Bulgaria there was a coronavirus... and we dispute whether it was there or not, and should the employees of my ministry be taken care of? I think it was all over the world. If it's a mistake for you that I've allowed all of our employees to be kept as long as possible, I take it as my own mistake. However, if you were staying at home during this time or wearing a mask, then you were no different from the employees to whom I have given the opportunity to keep themselves, their children, their colleagues. And yet we've had several cases of coronavirus, which, thank God, we're well out of the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u182	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for expressing respect for the answers received, dear Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u183	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, you confirm last year's gaps from the European Commission Report... significant gaps, as in establishing reference conditions, a quality element of all categories of water in Bulgaria. Environmental status, environmental potential is good or very good in less than half of the classified river bodies. A very large part of the water objects are in unknown condition. Conclusion: You do not perform your functions as Minister of Environment and Water, you do not guarantee the cleanliness of surface water, but your recognition that you have voluntarily decided that there is no such thing as a crime against Bulgarian citizens. When did the institutions decide not to work during half the pandemic? When did you decide not to take samples? You have voluntarily made this decision in the name of a minority. I guess you don't understand that.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u184	Please don't fight with the Minister! Just express your attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u185	You're saying there's a deviation in half of the water bodies in terms of chemical composition. What are you Minister of Environment and Water for? To explain exactly what you do as a daily routine or to perform your functions? Yes, we know that you are not qualified, you are not an expert who had public support to be a minister. You are the political appointment of Boyko Borisov's younger partner, but with your actions you show that you are not interested in the health of Bulgarian citizens at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u186	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Mr. Minister, that's what we're done with. Thank you for participating today in parliamentary control. We are continuing with Mr. Krasimir Valchev, Minister of Education and Science. He will answer a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov about the system of evaluation of universities and higher schools. Mr. Tsonkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u187	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, my question is related to the system of assessment in higher education, because given the changes that have been made to the Higher Education Act, I believe that this issue is timely and very relevant. Moreover, I still think that we will talk about the quality of higher education. We know that there is also a reform of higher education, which is related to the return of the profile of higher schools in Bulgaria. That is why it is important to hear your opinion, the opinion of the Ministry of Education and Science: what is the state of the system of assessment of higher schools and what underwater stones and what problems arise in the assessment? And we know that this evaluation is both periodic and annual. Here I'd like to divide into two parts, two directions, the evaluation. On the one hand, we have the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency, on the other hand, we have the rating system of universities, but they are directly involved in both assessment systems because they largely use the same indicators in practice. They both say they're objective enough. One, let's say there's more public response, and it's more social-oriented and candidate-student-oriented. This is why it is important and I would like to hear your opinion on the state of the system of evaluation of higher schools. What are the problems and what is your view? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u188	Thank you, Mr. Tsonkov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u189	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsonkov, the evaluation system is regulated in the Law on Higher Education and, as you pointed out, it has at least two main elements. One is accreditation. The second is the rating system of higher schools. Also part of this system are internal quality assessment systems in the universities themselves. The problems with regard to accreditation were very accurately articulated. I dare say, during the discussions of the latest amendments to the Higher Education Act, which were finally adopted in February, they were addressed by this law. On the one hand, accreditation is labour-intensive, time-consuming, requires numerous efforts, to fill out many documents. On the other hand, it gives us a little optics, we have a permanent trend of devaluation of the accreditation assessment. 12 years ago, it was 82% of the maximum, 6 years ago, 88% of the maximum, at the moment it is 92.. 93% of the maximum, that is, almost all estimates are above 9 of the 10-grade scale. We also have little impact on the accreditation assessment of the policies of higher schools and their incentives for development. Why am I saying this? Because often accreditation is done on the basis of formal criteria, there are required to have written internal procedures and rules, but not to be effective, to have produced effective internal policies However, it is not mandatory, for example, that the internal quality assessment system has led to incentives related to better teaching, to better scientific activity, to commitment to pay, to evaluation. These are the changes that are being made right now. I have an initial version of new criteria for the accreditation assessment presented by the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency. They are presented to us not to approve or to reconcile them, as you know that the Accreditation Board accepts them. I am convinced that if these rules are adopted, they will lead to a much more substantial change in the accreditation assessment regarding the creation of incentives so that these changes can be completed. Apart from that, programme accreditations will be made at the same time and institutional accreditation will be alleviated. Much of the accreditation will be electronized and will be based on standardised forms so that it is more relieved as a condition. The rating system I mentioned to you has a dual function. On the one hand, to give information about candidate students where education is more quality and cost-effective as a return. On the other hand, we are using as an information base part of its indicators, those that are objective, for which there is complete, accurate, verifiable information, centralised registers, to differentiate funding and to define the reception. International ratings for the rating system itself are that it is one of the best internationally, especially because of the full information we have on the indicators for realization. By the way, when we talk about evaluation, there are always at least three grades in the higher education system. One is the professional, academic evaluation, which includes accreditation and scientific activity, which is done by representatives of the academic circles themselves for purely academic activities. The second assessment is the market. Employers say: quality is what is realized where students are realized. And the third assessment is the evaluation of students, consumers. The rating system seeks a balance between these three assessments, but we in our complex assessment of quality and realization take the academic, plus the market assessment of realization. Apart from that, we make forecasts for the future realization because the indicators for realization are based on the last realization. Based on these assessments, accordingly, we assess and break down between today's demand for education and future needs in the labour market and try to tie both markets together and stimulate the inclusion in higher education of priority professional directions where there is the greatest expected future shortage. On this basis, as you mentioned, we are restructuring the acceptance in accordance with quality and implementation. We are trying to stimulate high school to concentrate in the professional fields where they have the highest grade. These are usually the professional directions that have traditionally specialized. The fact is that linking funding to the assessment of quality and realization changed the incentives. Twenty-six state universities have increased their scientific performance. Some of them adopted internal policies to bind public activity to the remunerations for stimulating public activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u190	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Line, Mr. Tsonkov. [[Noise and lines.]] Guys, you've been hearing a lot.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, yes, I agree with what you said, but why am I specifically raising this question? In view of the substantial amendments we have made to the Higher Education Act, we should seriously reform the accreditation system and work specifically the activities of the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency. As far as I can think of and the Law lays down a period within which the evaluation criteria are to be drawn up, to be adopted by the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency and also to be made, because this is essential, an electronic platform to work, to be oriented to the users of the higher education system, that is to say, employers, candidate students, and, of course, to be needed for the needs of the Ministry of Education and Science related to funding, with a number of students. From this point of view, the question arises, in fact, whether we do not have a duplication of valuation and, from this point of view, although it has become a practice of assessing from the rating system, is it necessary to continue this assessment practice by the rating system? Because I don't think it's transparent enough, we don't know exactly what the criteria are. Why should a private NGO and a company in practice evaluate the state system of higher education?! This I think should be either the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency or the Ministry of Education and Science, even more so the Ministry is the authority to conduct this policy. We also have a policy for the development of every university, a management contract with every Rector. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, just two sentences. There are also indicators for the quality to be achieved and for the development of universities. From this point of view, I believe that the main regulator should be the Ministry and therefore I raise the issue of the rating system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u192	Thank you, Mr. Tsonkov. Mr. Minister's doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u193	Thank you. I will try briefly to answer the questions that you have addressed. The Rules have been presented, the electronic platform.. launches its development. Duplicate the evaluation yes, to a very small extent, because accreditation is, as I told you, the academic evaluation, we have duplicated the part of the scientific activity. However, not quite, because in the rating system we only take into account scientific indicators from international reference databases. The accreditation assessment lacks what we have in the rating system the consumer and market assessment of higher education. Therefore it also contains subjective indicators, which is a flaw indeed, but otherwise would not be called a rating system. There's a dose of subjectiveism in the very word. But again, we use only objective indicators for policy purposes. It's not transparent enough. I dare say that the methodology for the rating system to each of the indicators in the rating system is much more transparent and understandable than the one for the accreditation assessment at the moment. The new indicators, I suppose, will be much more practically focused, to a much greater extent will specify the assessment of each of them. Who's it being done by? The full responsibility for the rating system bears the Ministry of Education. The Ministry is a contracting entity. It wasn't self-deprecating, it was a self-assessment. In some countries, including the most developed, we have private assessments. They are self-appearing, not entrusted by the State. We implement, coordinate in advance the methodology on each of the indicators. You know that each state institution carries out many activities as a result of external procurement, and we believe that as a result of this external award we have made a relatively good assessment. At the moment we have no comments on the implementation itself, we have a constant improvement of the system from year to year. We explain to higher schools, which normally some of them are not satisfied with the assessment, others do not know why an indicator has been formed, but by all indicators there is enough information in centralized databases, as I told you, so they can see. Most often, what the higher schools cannot verify are the indicators of realization, but they are from the information registers of the National Insurance Institute and the data on insurance income, and the data on realization. The information has been cleared to a very large extent, I dare say 99%, which makes the rating system reliable. Otherwise, when you return to your question, what is the main problem, in each assessment the main problem is asymmetry of the information? economists teach it, lecturers in economics. Never one who is a user of information has as much information as one who has it. And that's exactly what the system is trying to overcome, and it's doing it in a good enough way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u194	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to Minister Valchev is from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova on the policy of the Ministry of Education and Science regarding acceptance without a competition exam of students and PhD students of individuals who created inventions or useful models. You have the floor, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, we know that according to art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 5 of the Law on Higher Education, I quote: "Candidate students, laureates of national and international Olympiads, graduates of secondary education in the year in which the Olympics, winners of medals from Olympic, World and European Championships are held are accepted without a competition exam, outside the established by art. 9, para. 3, p. 6 letters (a) and (b) of the annual admission of students accepted for training where the competition exam for their specialty corresponds to the subject of the Olympics or the discipline of the Championship. Dear colleagues, according to art. 2, para. 2 of the Law on Patents and Registration of Useful Models, the person who created an invention or useful model is his inventor. When the invention or useful model is created by several individuals, they are inventors. However, in the current text in the Law on Higher Education there is no legal possibility of creators of inventions or useful models without a competition exam, outside the established under art. 9, para. 3, p. 6 letters of the same law should be accepted as students and PhD students without graduating from high school in the year of application. And my question to you, Mr. Minister, is: what is the policy of the Ministry of Education and Science for the creation of a legal opportunity for the people accepted as inventors to continue their education in the Republic of Bulgaria as students and PhD students without a competition exam without graduating secondary education in the same year? And what are the opportunities to create a special fund guaranteed by the state budget for financial support to these individuals?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u196	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u197	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Naydenova, the fact is that we have not discussed this issue, it has not been put to the attention of us to extend the range of eligible exceptions in the Law on Higher Education. The Law is specified by the Ordinance on the State Requirements for the Admission of Students to Higher Schools in Bulgaria, but one such exception must be made at the level of law, as is an exception to the general competition principle, as is done with regard to the quoted winners of Olympics and medal winners from Olympic, World and European Championships. In this case, when the competition exams are more than one, the winners of national and international Olympiads shall be recognized an assessment "Excellent 6" for those of them, which is in line with the subject of the Olympics. That's an important condition. Students shall attend the other competition exams and take part in the rankings established for the relevant university. The Ministry of Education and Science supports and participates in numerous projects related to the development and improvement of the innovative environment in Bulgaria, attracting public attention to the inventive and innovative activities and the interest of innovation by the Bulgarian business. A number of higher schools, together with various foundations, provide scholarships to support young lecturers, scientists and entrepreneurs. However, the wide range of inventions in different areas of the economy and business cannot be directly linked to the professional directions in which admission and training in higher schools are conducted. This is one of the reasons why such a change may not have been initiated at the moment. Why am I saying this? Not to reject this proposal, but to tell you that it cannot be accepted unconditionally and a discussion is needed. You asked the question: what is the policy? Our policy is to discuss every good proposal. It should be discussed in the context of how it is related to the relevant professional direction, because, again, I stress, in the Olympics and the competitions we have a relationship with the relevant professional direction. An invention in the field of technology does not mean that a candidate student should have an advantage in another professional direction, which does not have so much to do with technology. Many other questions will also arise. On the one hand, equality should be ensured with other students, i.e. not create opportunities for inequality. On the other hand, we will have many other activities that deserve to be also addressed in the context of these exceptions. What I can make as a commitment is that we can put this issue to discussion in future changes to the Higher Education Act. As the last ones have passed recently, we have not yet provided for them, but we have opened up the draft strategy for higher education development by 2030. In this context, discussions on future changes in the Higher Education Act can be made, as a large part of the texts in this strategy are related to changes in the Higher Education Act. The previous strategy was adopted unanimously by all political forces, it is very much implemented. I hope this strategy will do the same. Otherwise, there is no doubt that young inventors, scientists, entrepreneurs should be encouraged. We are also prepared to consider commitment to financial instruments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u198	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Line, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u199	To confess quite heartfeltly, I have asked this question so that I can pay your attention, Mr. Minister, to this important matter, although a little late. I think we are indebted to those individuals who are declared inventors, and we could, even further, even if we did not rush a legislative initiative by you as a minister or by us as MPs, but rather participate very actively in a discussion of the Strategy that you have said. I think that we will find a decent place for these people in such a way that they can be satisfied and that we as a state can create conditions for them to continue their education and at the same time stay to work and be realized here in Bulgaria. Business is interested in this and I think that in this direction both you and we can start working.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u200	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. A hole, Mr. Secretary? You won't use it. Thank you for participating in parliamentary control today. We are continuing with a question to Mr. Luchezar Borisov, Minister of Economy. He will answer a question of the MP Rumen Gechev about providing a competitive environment in the market for liquefied gas bottles. You have the floor, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u201	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleague Borisov, the question is from 18 June 2020. Due to the changes made, the answer is today, so congratulations to the Minister for answering questions. So, Minister, according to art. 2, para. 2, p. 3 of the Law on the administrative regulation of economic activities relating to oil and petroleum products are not subject to this law the activities related to the sales of liquefied gas cylinders by unregistered persons where they are carried out under a contract with a registered person under art. 2, para. 1 letter (b) of the Law. These traders are no different from distributors of bottled propane-butan, which should be registered under the Law in question. But under special conditions, registered distributors are required: first, to deposit a bank guarantee of 100,000. lv.; and secondly, own their own 1000 gas bottles. The inequality in the regulation of objects and entities falling within the scope of the Law violates the principles of equal treatment in market competition. This is especially true for small shops in weakly populated areas where liquefied gas bottles are sold. They do not have financial opportunities to register under the new law, and this puts at risk satisfying the consumption of hundreds of families in remote settlements. In this regard, Minister, what is your assessment of the effectiveness of the Act, both in terms of the mechanisms of the competitive environment provided for the various suppliers and in terms of the social effects of the application of this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u202	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u203	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Gechev, the question is indeed from 18 June 2020. It is a long time until today's response, but first of all, I would like to thank you personally for cooperating with one of his delays because of my urgent personal commitment. Thank you. Secondly, thank you for opening up the issue that is related to equality, and that in a competitive economy, each of the economic operators must have an equal start and we must have a level playing field. I would like to point out here that the Law on the Administrative Regulation of the Economic Activities relating to Oil and Oils is a relatively new law, which is to a certain extent part of the functions of the Ministry of Economy. This registration is currently under way. One of the objectives of this law was to achieve more transparency, more lightening of the business. So with regard to the effects and effectiveness at the moment, we are performing the first effect of registering all business entities in this sector. The effectiveness may be seen at a slightly later stage, seeing the results of the NRA and the work of the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision. Specifically on the subject and on the topics put by you. The law was created in the light of a number of problems identified by the state authorities relating to the production, trade, storage, transport of petroleum products and in order to fill the lack of legal regulation in national law. By the Law, as you know, registration has been made for persons carrying out these activities, providing for a special exception in it for persons selling cylinders of liquefied petroleum gases when carried out under a contract with a person registered for distribution of bottles. The difference between the distribution and sale of liquefied petroleum gas cylinders is that distributors not only sell the bottles and fill the same ones at filling points of liquefied inert gas bottles under a contract concluded with registered persons or persons authorised to manage a tax warehouse within the meaning of the relevant law, i.e. those operators, those small shops are not subject to registration in cases where they have a contract with a registered distributor. From this point of view, I do not believe that we can seek any inequality. However, the debate is important and what I wanted to say at the beginning that we are currently implementing this bill establishing some shortcomings, even in terms of the registration itself, which we have been referred to by some of the associations, which we are also addressed by representatives of the transport industry, and we have also had talks with the Minister of Transport on this subject. So surely this debate and this discussion may very soon reopen within the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. With regard to the effects and where we are with the Law. The deadline for submission of applications for registration for the cases in force expired on 3 August, with a large part of the persons applying for registration at the end of the period, without applying the necessary documents. This, in turn, makes it difficult for the Authority to request these documents from the relevant applicants for registration, but they have submitted these applications in order to comply with the deadline, with outstanding documents. Of course, there are many who are well-documented. As an example, I can only give that from the first one or two weeks when I became a minister, I have signed over 600 applications. The function is currently assigned to my assistant minister. At present, the employees of the Ministry's specialized unit carry out the verification of these deficiencies and inaccuracies and the registration process continues. After the completion of the registration process, as I said at the beginning, we will evaluate with our colleagues from the National Revenue Agency and the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision not only for the effect of registration but for the effectiveness of the implementation of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u204	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The line, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u205	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleague Borisov! Let us clarify this: the Ministry of Economy, unfortunately, years ago created chaos in this area of regulation of the oil market. What are the facts? On 20 July 2018, a law was adopted. For the first time perhaps in the only Member State of the European Union, a law is adopted and it does not apply. The Ministry of Economy does not create, develop, issue a regulation and the law hangs until next year. A brand new law that hasn't been applied at all, someone has decided not to apply it! The government passed a new law and proposed it in parliament in February 2019, again making a regulation. What's this about? Dear colleagues, Mr. Borisov, as a new Minister of Economy, take hold of yourself with your alternate because the Bulgarian state made these companies buy 10,000 bottles under the old law, right, and now there are 1,000 bottles?! And who will cover the costs of these people from 9 thousand bottles of 50. 60 leva.? What are you telling these people? Some of them gambled and lost their homes to provide over half a million leva required by the Bulgarian government 10 thousand bottles. You are now saying, "Jegicka, a thousand bottles!" You wanted warehouses up to 50 cubic metres. To provide with the appropriate equipment, people spent millions with credit, and now they're thinking about the regulation again. Not to hide from the Bulgarian citizens is known to us that there is pressure, as the products are a very special market where profit can be high. If he likes, the Ministry of Economy should not struggle to revolve around the big ones, as I call them, by the Development Bank and now by the employees, but sit down with the associations and make a regulation where there is market competition like in Europe. There is a second question that we do not have time to discuss, these are the risks with the thunder of the bottles. It's a legacy problem. There are bottles 40 years ago spinning around in the market, and you know it perfectly well, because now it happens that one buys the bottle, another starts using it. It's not clear who's gonna keep track of the equipment until another restaurant blows up and people are killed. In conclusion, my request is: look at the experience of the European Union, take the best against the conditions of Bulgaria and do not listen to the recommendations of the Crocodiles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u206	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. It's a hole, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Professor Gechev, based on the general economic principles, what you said, I think we share the same ideas, but with regard to the bill it is also the question. In my question, it's been a little hard for me to understand because we're talking face-to-face. 2, para. 2 (b) What you wrote in the Bill. There's no letter like that. Maybe it's a typo, maybe we're talking about a t. 6, but it also made it a little difficult for me to understand the question, as it speaks of both small shops where bottles are sold and distributors. After all, I did not understand as a message which of the two groups is a priority on the subject, but the general thesis that there should be competition, that there should be equality, I absolutely share it. In this regard, you mentioned that back in time the regulation and the law had been delayed by implementation. Yes, it is. Since there were many interested parties and the Ministry of Economy in this period sought to achieve a solid consistency with all interested parties and to achieve the best possible balance at this stage, so there is also part of the answer to the question asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-11.u208	Thank you, dear Minister. With this today, we have completed parliamentary control. The next regular plenary session shall be on 16 September 2020 at 9.00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
