ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Dear colleagues, since yesterday the first vote of the Bill amending and supplementing the Biodiversity Act remained. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2020, was fixed as point two for Thursday. I suggest that we include you in the Programme for today as point two of the Biodiversity Act as soon as the first vote of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the State Reserves and Wartime Stocks Act is completed, and the plenary will continue until the vote on the Biodiversity Act is passed. Colleagues, as soon as the second item is completed, parliamentary control will begin, in fact at 11.00. Please vote. They voted 161 MPs: for 128, against 4, abstention 29. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. The Economic Policy Committee report will introduce us to Mr. Kanev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u2	♪ I can't believe under a bill amending and supplementing the State Reserves and Wartime Stocks Act, No 002-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 May 2020. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting, held on 3 June 2020, examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Reserves and Wartime Stocks, No 002-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by: Emil Karanikolov, Minister of Economy; from the Ministry of Finance: Lyudmila Petkova, Director of the Department of Tax Policy and Tatiana Nakova, State Expert; from the Ministry of Defence: Ivan Karabashev, Head of the Department; from the State Agency of State Reserves and Wartime Stocks The bill was presented by Minister Karanikolov. According to the importer, the aim of the proposed bill is to create a state-owned oil company to optimize the activities of creating and managing all reserves and reserves of oil and petroleum products and to ensure their sustainable maintenance for the purposes of the state and in the implementation of European legislation. The creation of the state-owned enterprise will improve competition in the country's fuel market, which will not only benefit end-users, but will also be a measure to increase the number of tax warehouses in the fuel sector. This is in line with the recommendations of the Commission for Protection of Competition in the sectoral analyses carried out for the development of a competitive environment in the markets, the production and realization of automotive fuels in the country. With the establishment of the tax warehouses managed by the state enterprise, there will be more free capacities in the tax warehouses, which will facilitate trade, as the creation of its own tax warehouse requires an initial investment that is impossible for most traders and takes away a serious financial and administrative resource. The legal person established is not a commercial company, does not form or distribute profit. However, it itself can set up commercial companies, including a non-cash contribution, to carry out commercial activities related to management, maintenance, operation and construction of storage facilities for oil and gas stations, as well as commercial activities with alternative fuels. The Minister of Economy will exercise the state's right to property in the state enterprise and appoint and release members of the Governing Council. The creation of corresponding amendments to the Oil and Oil Stocks Act and the Law on excises and tax warehouses is proposed, which cancel the special order for licensing of the State Agency State Reserve and Wartime Stocks and the tax warehouses managed by the State Oil Company will be subject to registration under the general order of the Law. An opportunity is created to control the debtors for the fulfilment of their obligations in the creation, storage, use and recovery of stocks under this law by the Director of the Customs Agency. A preliminary partial impact assessment has been applied by the Bill. According to the importer, the establishment and operation of the state-owned enterprise will be financially ensured within the framework of the planned funds under the state budget. The proposed provisions do not create an additional administrative burden for economic operators and do not require funds from them. In its opinion, the Industrial Capital Association in Bulgaria does not support the proposed bill because of the lack of a comparative analysis of the benefits and future costs of the establishment of a State Oil Company The Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria supports the presented bill. The CST finds it logical and democratic to make the country's market in the fuel sector more competitive. As a criticism of the Bill, it is pointed out that if it contains a ban on privatisation of the company itself, a State-owned oil company, as well as the inability to fail, for its subsidiaries, such an explicit provision is not available. In the subsequent discussion the national representative Valeri Simeonov raised the issue of mandatory free volume in the storage facilities for oil storage. People's representative Rumen Gechev declares that he will vote against the President because the bill has not been subjected to public discussion. People's representative Dimitar Boychev announced the support of GERB's parliamentary group for the Bill, noting that in its last annual reports the Commission for Protection of Competition raises the issue of concentration of tax warehouses. He commented that the reasons for the bill should have more business analyses. People's representative Dimitar Danchev raised the question whether only through the creation of the state-owned company can be intervened in the market of fuels. People's representative Petar Kanev proposed within 4 months after the adoption of the Law that the Minister of Economy should report to the Commission on the level of readiness for the establishment of the State Oil Company and to present a business plan for the future commercial companies owned by the state enterprise. [[Noise.]] The questions asked were answered by Minister Karanikolov. Following the conclusion of the discussion and the vote with results: the Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on State Reserves and Wartime Stocks, No 002-01-18, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on State Reserves and Wartime Stocks, No 002-01-18...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u3	Guys, it's too loud.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u4	... implemented by the Council of Ministers on 21 May 2020
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. The report of the Commission on Energy follows. Here you go, Mr. Stoyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u6	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, colleagues! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on a Bill amending and supplementing the State Reserves and Wartime Reserves Act, No 002-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 May 2020 for the first vote At its regular meeting held on 2 June 2020, the Energy Commission discussed and voted on the above-mentioned bill. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Economy: Mrs. Lilia Ivanova Deputy Minister, Mrs. Zara Dobreva Director of the Department of Legal Affairs, Mr. Valentin Gruev Director of the Directorate of Industrial Relations and Government of State Participation and Ms. Silvana Lyubenova Director of the Directorate of Technical Harmonization and Consumer Policy. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mrs. Lilia Ivanova, who explained the reasons for the proposed amendments and additions. The aim of the proposed bill is the establishment of a state-owned oil company at the Minister of Economy. The main activity of the company will be the creation, preservation, preservation and renewal of state reserves and wartime reserves, on the one hand, and maintenance of oil and petroleum reserves within the meaning of the Oil and Oil Stocks Act, which the State should create and maintain. The State-owned enterprise will manage and operate the stock base provided to it. The aim is by this separation of functions from the State Agency for the State Reserve and Wartime Stocks the activity of maintaining mandatory stocks and reserves to concentrate in one place, to optimize the activity and, accordingly, to achieve better implementation of state functions in the creation and preservation of reserves and maintenance of mandatory reserves. On the other hand, it will be possible to achieve the commercial effect, namely the state to enter as a full-fledged trader in the fuel market, to create and maintain an additional storage facility, as well as to create petrol stations. To this end, it is envisaged that the State-owned undertaking may establish its own trading company which is practically the trader interfering in the fuel market. The commercial activity relating to the management, maintenance, operation, construction of storage facilities for oil and gas stations is one party to the activities and the other objective of the company established is the creation of a commercial activity with alternative fuels, which is in accordance with Directive 2014/1994. For the construction of alternative fuel infrastructure. The bill will lead to better specialization of activities, concentration of available resources and development of new ones. The optimal management of the company's oil bases, the construction of new bases and gas stations will improve competition in the market, new tax warehouses will be created. This is in line with the recommendations of the Commission for Protection of Competition and with the repeated implementation of sectoral analyses for the development of a competitive environment on the country's automotive fuel market. After the discussion was concluded and on the basis of the 19-vote energy committee vote, the Council of Ministers proposed to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Law on State Reserves and Wartime Reserves, No 002-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 May 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u7	Thank you, Mr. Stoyanov. The report of the Committee on Budget and Finance follows. Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u8	Madam President, honourable Members! I will present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on State Reserves and Wartime Stocks, No 002-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 May 2020. At a meeting held on 4 June 2020, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Reserves and Wartime Stocks Act No 002-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 May 2020. The bill was presented by Mrs. Lilia Ivanova Deputy Minister of Economy. The amendments to the State Reserves and Wartime Stocks Act proposed in the Bill are related to the formation of a state-owned oil company to the Minister of Economy. The establishment of the state-owned enterprise will improve the activity of creating and managing reserves and reserves of oil and petroleum products through the specialization of activities, the concentration of resources available and the development of new ones. The optimal management of the company's oil bases and the construction of new bases and filling stations will also improve competition in the country's fuel market, which will not only benefit end-users, but will also represent a measure to increase the number of tax warehouses in the fuel sector for the purposes of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses. With the construction of the tax warehouses that will be in the management of the state enterprise, respectively, at petrol stations, the direct link of the tax warehouse will ensure a final fuel distributor, which in turn will guarantee transparency and the lowest possible price for the consumer. In this regard, the amendments to the Law on excises and tax warehouses provide for the cancellation of the special order for licensing of the State Agency of State Reserves and Wartime Stocks, such as those managed by the State-owned oil company. The tax warehouses will be subject to registration under the general order of the Law. These tax warehouses will be able to benefit from suppliers of fuels under non-discriminatory conditions and subject to the principle of neutrality. The aim is for the State to participate in the fuel market as a supplier of this type of excise commodity, which will lead to increased competition for wholesale and retail trade in fuels, as well as the supply of services by licensed warehousekeepers. In addition, the changes proposed in the Law on excises and tax warehouses introduces an obligation for licensed warehousekeepers in the presence of storage capacity and, upon request, a depositor to store in the tax warehouse energy products owned by the person. In the event of the refusal of the authorised warehousekeeper, it is envisaged that the person should inform the Director of the territorial directorate of the location of the tax warehouse, providing evidence of the refusal. The customs authorities will verify the existence of storage capacity at the time of the refusal. The bill provides for the adoption of related amendments to the Oil and Oil Stocks Act, including the creation of an opportunity to control the debtors regarding the fulfilment of their duties on the establishment, storage, renewal, use and recovery of the stocks under this Act, to be carried out by the Director of the Customs Agency or by employees of the Agency. There are amendments to the Law on excises and tax warehouses, as well as the adoption of the regulatory framework of the state enterprise's activities. Mr. Rumen Gechev, Mrs. Svetla Bachvarova and the representative of the Bulgarian Oil and Gas Association took part in the discussion. The latter expressed its support for the Bill, noting that it is necessary between the first and second votes to clarify the texts of § 9 concerning art. 47, para. 12 of the Bill. Following the discussion, the members of the Budget and Finance Committee expressed their principal support for the draft proposed by concluding its discussion with the following results: with 13 votes.................................................................................. and without............................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. The latest report is from the Commission for Monitoring Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling. Mr. Angelov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u10	Madam President! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Reserves and Wartime Stocks, No 002-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers On 21 May 2020, the Council adopted Regulation At its regular meeting on 4 June 2020, the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and the Combating of the Grey Economy and Smuggling discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Reserves and Wartime Stocks Act No 002-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 May 2020. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Economy Lachezar Borisov Deputy Minister and Valentin Gruev Director of Directorate, Industrial Relations and Government of State Participation and the Ministry of Defence Ivan Karabashev Head of Department at the Directorate Planning and Programming of Budget. The bill was presented by Mr. Lachezar Borisov, who introduced the MPs to his goals. The proposed changes are related to the establishment of a state-owned oil company to the Minister of Economy. The main activity of the enterprise will be the creation, preservation, preservation and renewal of the state reserves and the wartime reserves of oil and petroleum products under the Law on State Reserves and Wartime Stocks and the stock of oil and petroleum products within the meaning of art. 3, para. 1 and 2 of the Oil and Oil Stocks Act, which the State creates and maintains. The State-owned enterprise will manage, maintain and exploit the stock storage facilities provided to it and will build new bases. The aim is to optimize activities to create and manage all reserves and reserves of oil and petroleum products, to ensure their sustainable maintenance for the purposes of the state and in the implementation of European legislation. The bill provides a basic framework for the structure and operation of the state enterprise. It is envisaged that the rules adopted by the Council of Ministers should ensure the overall structure and operation of the undertaking, the powers and duties of the management bodies. An opportunity has been envisaged, by decision of the Council of Ministers, for the enterprise to set up commercial companies, including with a non-cash contribution, representing the right of ownership of the property provided to it, private state ownership, for the pursuit of commercial activity related to management, maintenance, operation and construction of warehouses for the storage of petroleum products and petrol stations, with the possibility of charging electric vehicles, as well as commercial activity with alternative fuels. The establishment of the state-owned enterprise will improve the activity of creating and managing reserves and reserves of oil and petroleum products through the specialization of activities, the concentration of resources available and the development of new ones. The optimal management of the company's oil bases and the construction of new gas stations with the possibility of charging electric cars will also improve competition in the country's fuel market, which will not only benefit end-users, but will also represent a measure to increase the number of tax warehouses in the fuel sector for the purposes of the Law on excises and tax warehouses. This is also in line with the recommendations of the Commission for the Protection of Competition in the multiple conduct of sectoral analyses for the development of the competitive environment of the markets in the production and realization of automotive fuels in the country. With the construction of the tax warehouses that will be in the management of the state enterprise, respectively, at petrol stations, the direct link of the tax warehouse will ensure a final fuel distributor, which in turn will guarantee transparency and the lowest possible price for the consumer. This will achieve efficiency, predictability and security for the consumer that will receive the lowest possible price for the highest quality. The proposed project is also in line with the recommendations of the Commission for Protection of Competition, to overcome the market penetration barrier by creating tax warehouses. And by managing them by the state-owned enterprise, there will be more available spare capacity, which will facilitate trade, as the creation of its own tax warehouse requires an initial investment that is impossible for most traders and takes away serious financial and administrative resources. In this regard, the amendments to the Law on excises and tax warehouses provide for the cancellation of the special order for licensing of the State Agency of State Reserves and Wartime Stocks, such as those managed by the State-owned oil company. The tax warehouses will be subject to registration under the general order of the Law. These tax warehouses will be able to benefit from suppliers of fuels under non-discriminatory conditions and subject to the principle of neutrality. The aim is for the State to participate in the fuel market as a supplier of this type of excise commodity, which will lead to increased competition for wholesale and retail trade in fuels, as well as the supply of services by licensed warehousekeepers. Following the discussion and the vote held: with 12 votes for the Council, with no votes against the House, and 6 votes abstentioned, the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling proposes that the National Assembly adopt a bill of amendment and supplement to the Law on State Reserves and Wartime Stocks, No 002-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 May 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u11	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u12	Yes, yes, yes, honourable colleagues! Yeah, fighting the undisputed cartel! Yes, prices will be regulated, wartime stocks will be regulated, oil storage. All of this, yes, but what we are doing today goes far beyond these tasks. It has an extremely important ideological meaning. It is one of the most important things we will do during the mandate of the Forty-fourth National Assembly because we are hitting a very large nail in the coffin of liberal understanding of the economy. We hit, we beat that old mantra, with which we were once exposed, that the state is a bad owner or a small country in the economy, and no country in the economy, because the state would lose, and that was bad. In this direction, liberal economists from institutions for market economies and similar institutions reacted. They walk around the screens crying like white bears on the equator because they find it extremely unpleasant. We from Ataka have always been supportive of the state having its role in the economy where it is most effective where it is needed. In this regard, years ago, the Ataka and the ALFA TV broadcast a series of documentary films showing that in closer or more distant countries, including former ones, from the socialist bloc like us, state enterprises from different spheres are extremely profitable and effective and this debunked the mantra with which I started that the state is a bad owner, less state or no state. In this area, we have wonderful examples of state-owned companies that are profitable. These liberal economists forgot to say that Lukoil, let's say, I do not do advertising, or Rompetrol, which also operates in Bulgaria, are state-owned companies. They are profitable and bring incomes to their respective countries from the Bulgarian market, while in Bulgaria we had such a wonderful company that worked this was Petrol, who who knows whose hands this company is and whose hands this company is, this company currently brings incomes and profits, and in some country some people live and waste on the incomes they realize on the Bulgarian market from this former, created, we have had it, a state oil company. These liberal economists always plead private, so private, only private, no one is against private and against private companies, forget that the Constitutional State is also an entity equal to all other entities in terms of ownership. With other entities the state property is equal to private property, equal to municipal property and the state has the rights, like all entities, to operate, to work, to intervent the market and to realize income that will be and used for the good of society. Dear colleagues, in this short period of time that I have, I will conclude with a call today that there is a consensus. I hope that everyone in this House unanimously, without abstention and against, in order for this to be a sign, to make this state-owned company with state gas stations and tomorrow to happen in other areas, and in other areas, to start breaking this mantra, on this template that we were put into, in this criminal scheme that we are in. Three or four years ago, there was a conversation about a workshop in Kremikovtsi, let us not forget, Mr. Minister, who could restore his production and could be a state-owned company, state property. There are ways, then there were ideas how this could happen. More state-owned companies in the field of energy, not just existing ones. The State as owner of the agricultural goods markets, in the mining industry. I only give ideas. This list can be extended to the manganese mining industry. You know where and what deposits there are with tungsten deposits in the Rhodopes. What is wrong with setting up a state-owned company that will best protect the environment and the environment and be most effective in this regard? This list can be expanded in other areas, in quite other industries. Let's put today's vote at first reading of this bill the beginning of a series for more country in the economy. This will be only for the benefit of the Bulgarian people and for the realization of ours, from Ataka, which we have always talked about, our logo, our main thesis to get Bulgaria back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Yankov, for your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u14	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposal that has been made is good when it will affect the well-being of our countrymen. There are two ways to raise this well-being. On the one hand, to suggest an increase in income. On the other hand, to reduce the costs of essential goods, those that are needed to have some exotic minimum standard of living under the conditions in which we are placed. And if this is the intention of the state, with market mechanisms in a sector where there has always been doubt of a cartel agreement, then we should welcome the good intentions. Another question is what will be the implementation. And now I pay attention to the fact that there are statements that also lead to doubt in terms of good implementation. Where, on the basis of setting a price to regulate prices in a sector, it is announced that the State, precisely with market mechanisms, will regulate this market on a cost-based basis plus a normal mark-up that can be used, to enable external financing, which economists claim, is between four and six per cent, i.e. on the basis of costs to be determined and the price that consumers will receive, then why is this statement that gas stations will be made, which, for the most part, will be lost on the basis of commodity turnover, if the price is at market prices? And if they are compensated by those working in large cities, it will turn out that the state, making an undertaking with final consumption, which will be gas stations, will not actually suppress the price, but will enable all those involved in the market to be equal to the cost of state gas stations and may even prove to be increasing the price. Now this is one of the very serious issues if the state builds for final consumption objects that will be dotted by other winners in large cities, then the price regulation function will not be over-profited, will not be implemented. Otherwise, yes, good intentions, but what will be the fulfillment? At such a time after a crisis, yes, such proposals must also be made, with which our fellow citizens must feel the active role of the state. But are there any readings? Is there a clear study of the effect of such a proposal to convince our citizens that this is not a proposal but real socialism, which you know has led to a crisis in the 1980s? [[partial applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by GERB]] It is a modern approach that is used from around the world to intervene the state not as a regulator with an institution, as is the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory in other sectors, but with active involvement of the state with market mechanisms to reduce the price, the impossibility of a cartel agreement, increasing the well-being of Bulgarian citizens. I was looking at a statistic, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, the average income of the Bulgarian family is estimated that about 90% is for expenses related to normal life.. food, clothes, telephone, electricity. And only 10% remain for hobby, recreation and culture. If those who are importers offering this proposal convince us that this will change and there will be an opportunity for a family in Bulgaria to spend more time for sport, for their hobby, recreation and culture, it will reduce its costs for what is necessary in everyday life. Yes, let's welcome it, to support it. But what's the approach? If the populist effect was not sought to convince a single person, I suggest, and this would happen, and the best solution was sought, this would be offered to the political parties that are both parliamentary represented and those who are outside the parliament. You know that some of the representatives of political formations in the right space have expressed their arguments that it is unacceptable for the state to participate as a regulator. It's their philosophy, their politics. Ours, which is based on an ideology related to left-wing policies, is the opposite However, how do we minimize the possibility of distorting this good intention? With dialogue, with conversation. Here's the problem of governance: it does not seek conversation, does not seek good solutions in dialogue. Institutionally, there are also some traditions of democracy and legal arrangements. How can we accept someone's sole will on the condition that we have many questions? These questions that are being asked must be resolved in dialogue. And it's not a backroom, it's not a negotiation. This is a search for a good solution, seeking consensus, not a mathematical majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mrs. Georgieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, the Volya parliamentary group will support the Bill because, as you know, the idea of a state gas station chain to ensure fair prices of fuel for the Bulgarians belongs to our leader Veselin Mareshki from 2017. Moreover, this idea was among the management priorities of the Vola in our election campaign. In this case, the most important thing for us, as authors of this idea, is that it is not distorted and corrupted. Therefore, we will closely monitor the actions of the company's future leadership. It can only be successful if it copies one to one project by Mr. Mareshki. In this sense, we are ready to help to make sure that the biggest winner of this bill will be the Bulgarian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u17	Thank you, dear Mrs. Georgieva. - What's the line? I can't see. Statements? Here you are, Mr. Kanev, to speak on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u18	Colleagues, my speech will be a statement, but I'll start with a very short line from Krasi Jankov. I, as a man of real socialism and real capitalism, want to share with you that our group will support this bill. I'm not hiding that we had serious debates in the group. I do not hide that we have long commented that the state monopoly is something terrible, but more terrible than it is the private monopoly. We commented that through this bill we will try to limit the monopoly of several very serious oil structures in Bulgaria. At the same time, the offer of this bill is a negative assessment of the work of regulators of the KPC and of the Commission for Consumer Protection. The debates in the group were serious, but they were serious in our committee as well. In the group we recalled that this is actually one of the election proposals from our economic platform 2015. So I congratulate the importers for using our know-how. The truth is that after the pandemic, or as it is said, the pandemic is still ongoing, the debate in the European Union and in the world on the role of the state in managing such critical situations is very great. This talk about the role of the state in the business and the economy comes back again because it turns out that when the state is in good condition and the business is in good condition, the business always goes against the state, always wants. When the situation is critical, the business suddenly realizes that there is no better assistant and better guardian than the state. This debate is therefore extremely important where the state in the economy can be, especially on local soil in Bulgaria. I'm not the specialist and the macroeconomicist who can talk, but I think it's high time we got back to normal debates. The pandemic ends, as I understand it, with the restrictive measures after the 15th, or if it doesn't end, at least the measures end. The theme of the role of the state must be commented again. A few words about how it is in Europe, because in our group there was also this comment: I do not comment on Norway, which is one of the major oil producers, where there is an extremely powerful state company. State-owned oil companies have in Italy "Eni," there are in Austria with different, of course, percentage participation of the state in them. In Italy, for example, they hold their gold share. But apparently they're holding it much better, because we have a golden share in another structure, and it turns out it's not that golden, which is more like gold for some people only. So it is in Hungary, so it is in Greece with Hellenic Petroleum. So to comment that the state has no place in this business is not right. I think that in the debate in the Commission we have achieved, we have blackmailed Mr. Minister, after setting up the state company, must be on the ban list. Secondly, however, the more interesting thing that is not in the reasons and in the law itself, if commercial companies are created, also to enter the ban list of decisions here in this Chamber. This is what the Minister promised us and I hope he will fulfill his commitment. Tax warehouses. I think the great success of this law is tax warehouses. I'm a pessimist about what the state can do as a regulator with a hundred gas stations. The market has long been oversaturated by over 3,200, some say 3500 gas stations. I think that even Veso Mareshki, with his several petrol stations, with his magnificent trend participation in the market, with a difference between 20 and 40 cents, see that he also failed for the last 2 years to force the large monopoly gas stations that hold over 70% of the market, the large monopolies, to lower the price. That is why I am a pessimist and therefore I will be watching with interest how this sector will develop.. the sale, the retail trade. A few words about trust. Why do we very often disbelieve and vote abstention or abstention? Because for many years, the last few years, here I will quote, by the way, a person whom I respect very much, Professor Hristina Vucheva, who says: "Everyone has the right to his own opinion, but no one has the right to his own facts. You've been giving us nothing but facts lately. I want this debate to be held because we don't believe you, it's worse than that. We don't trust each other. Therefore, by this law, with the establishment of this public company and of a whole new state industry, I think we should find some form of opposition participation, whether you are in power next year or we are in power rather we will be. [[Laughter, excitement.]] Gurnevsky, don't laugh! Regardless of who is in power, the opposition must have control over state companies. In many countries, this is what it is. I will even tell you that in France and Hungary, if you open the rules of their parliaments, so-called committees or subcommittees on budget control, the opposition is given rules. In many countries, the second degree of control of the board is dominated by the opposition. Let us think about this together, because you also need a strong monitoring opposition. Finally, I would like to congratulate you that you are, after all, about to realize our idea from a few years ago, we will largely support, and, once again, I am pessimist for part of the Report on Retail Trade, Gas Stations, and optimist for tax warehouses. I don't see Valeri Simeonov here, I want to congratulate him on his idea that some of the volumes of the tax warehouses should be reserved for certain reserve traders. Thank you and good luck! [[Private applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev! - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to draw attention to another part of the Law, which I think is extremely important for what lies ahead, namely excise warehouses, tax warehouses. A topic that we discussed a long time ago related to oil products that are in our production anyway. In my opinion, this is a very good step for a bigger one, if we can call it market liberalisation. This would in turn enable more traders to enter, since you know that at the moment one of the main problems that exists before the entry of more traders in this market is precisely the obligation to keep certain quantities in warehouses or the construction of such stocks is too expensive, or the way they are staying, respectively. This is normal European practice. We know that large countries work just like this, and this helps to reduce both the prices of different products for both oil and petroleum products and for greater competition between different consumers. There are several things that I would like to address, because these tax warehouses will enable and guarantee high efficiency, market predictability and, of course, security for both traders and end-users. The creation of tax warehouses will in itself enable both the entry of new traders on the market in Bulgaria and will also enable Bulgarian producers, through the Bulgarian authorities, to turn to the external markets. I kind of agree with what my colleagues said before me. I believe that this is a law which, by its nature, is aimed precisely at the development of the sector and accordingly improves the conditions in the country both for business and not only. That is why the debate must really be bilateral and I hope that the debate will continue here, as in the Energy Committee, so that we can step on the big points that are important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Tanev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Ermenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u22	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As has been said, we in the Energy Commission discussed this bill. Based on the fact that we are talking about more country, including organizing the conservation, management of wartime stocks and reserve, we have said that this is a good solution and a step towards ensuring the country's energy security as an element of all national security. However, there are concerns that Mr. Kanev mentioned before me. That we will support this law at first reading, in most part is supporting the philosophy of the Law for more state. Because the Bulgarian Socialist Party has always said that more state is better, and the modern environment in the world proves that this is not only our idea, but also a practice that all countries already follow. And it has been proven that the state must assume its regulatory functions, including its economic functions. By the way, one of the things in this law was written and, in my opinion, in its motives, shows that the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the importers of this bill give a negative assessment, not to say anything worse, of the Commission's activities for Protection of Competition. Because one of the reasons why the market price is given the opportunity to do so is written in the reason for this state-owned company to create commercial enterprises, gas stations and others to regulate the market price shows that the Commission for the Protection of Competition, which is the main objective of the State to protect competition and regulate market relations so that there is no speculation that there is no distortion, does not do its job. So, colleagues, we, again, will support the Law in this philosophy that shows more state. I would like to remind you that a country should not only have in the field of fuel, which may be of great importance from the point of view of the large economy of the state, but as an influence on the ordinary person is not that great, we should already be thinking about more countries, both in terms of medicines and in terms of agricultural production, why not in terms of creating more businesses that can create added value, rather than relying on a budget and only on tax revenues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Here you go, Mr. Boychev. Mr. Karanikolov at the end of the debate will conclude.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! This bill has sparked some pretty serious debates, and I think it's very useful. As there has been a serious debate in the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, there is indeed a need for such a bill, there is a need for intervention on this market by the state, especially in the contents and in the volumes of tax warehouses. I am not a lawyer of the Commission for Protection of Competition, but I would like to point out to you that whenever a sector analysis is legal by the Commission, they have found in their reports that there is a concentration of tax warehouses in certain large players through the contents and through the prices given as services in these warehouses, there is an opportunity to manipulate the price of fuels entering the country. From this point of view, the Commission for the Protection of Competition has done its job, and I very much welcome the State's intervention, which is envisaged in this law to enter into the construction, in the analysis of excise warehouses, because indeed a large part of the manipulation of fuel prices can take place through these tax warehouses. We strongly welcome the idea of fellow Patriots, the volumes of these warehouses to be announced, to know and must be provided as a service to traders who are importers of such fuels. Personally, it has indeed become a very serious debate in the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, I wish we could see a more serious economic analysis of what will be done, what is envisaged in the construction of petrol stations. But, as the Ministry has assured us, this is coming. The company that will be located will be extremely market-based and we have the assurance of the Minister that everything that is being done as an analysis that is to be invested in this company will be presented to the Commission. For this I am calm from this point of view that we will have a view of what is to be invested and what is to be done as an economic analysis of the future construction of these gas stations. We will strongly support this law and I think another player in the market is always useful. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Allow me, first of all, to thank you for your attitude to the Bill we are dealing with today. From what I have heard, I believe that, in the part of tax warehouses, military reserves, mandatory fuel storage, all of you are taking this idea, and it is indeed right, because this means that more participants have the opportunity to take advantage of this opportunity, of the free volumes of state-owned objects that are currently in reserve, but are not tax warehouses. Perhaps this will also lead to an opportunity to have more participants and they will also do much more gas stations in the country. I have one request for all of you. First of all, the Commission for Protection of Competition, let us not forget that it is elected by the National Assembly and you all have representatives inside, most parties. Let us not forget that this committee carries out sectoral analyses and we must read them. Let us not forget that these analyses have helped that we have completed the Fuel Act, which, you know, has created tensions in the sector thanks to this Commission analysis. Let us not forget that the Commission pointed out precisely the problem with tax warehouses, that is, we cannot say that this Commission is not working. I personally closely monitor their analysis and I believe that they... Another question is how to prove a cartel in dominance or monopoly. This is extremely difficult. Another question is to look at the remuneration of experts in this committee and whether they can fight with these rewards. These are things we need to look at. As far as gas stations are concerned, I have something to tell you. First of all, there's no way we can have gas stations analyzed right now. It is unacceptable for any minister at the moment to make expenditure, to make typical projects of petrol stations, to do analyses, as long as I have no law, and I do not have the legal norm at the moment to assign this thing. When we talk about gas stations, I want to say clearly and very precisely that these 100 gas stations, or 100 objects, or if they become 101, I apologize now, or more because this analysis is working, they will somehow reduce the cost of fuel in Bulgaria. That should make it clear it's nonsense. At these gas stations, the first function will be clear to see how the price is formed from the tax warehouse to the gas station. So we're going to have a clear indicator. You know that when prices fall, price rises, there is a difference in when the price drops in Bulgaria to the end user, of course, when the price rises. I believe that the first is the main objective, but the most important of this bill is indeed the tax warehouses. Speaking of gas stations, we also have other obligations under European directives, as well as obligations towards investors with whom we have conversations, namely the construction of alternative fuels. Here I can say: there will be an electrical charge on these objects. We must have the necessary infrastructure built to cover much of Bulgaria's territory and to the key regional centres. The analysis must tell us where we should place such sites where there is no competition. I give an example: there should be three or four gas stations in several district centres, i.e. no such competition. We're definitely talking a lot about hydrogen right now. This is also a future, and all the investors we talk to tell us: the Bulgarian state does not show that you invest in such infrastructure, do not wait for us! You know, for now there is yet to be talk about the budget in the European Union, I do not want to comment on it, it is still a forecast. But we will also have an obligation in green trades, we have to think about many things. So once again, thank you. We'll do our best. All this was explained in the Economic Commission, the wise President of the Commission, of course, made the wisest decision. Within four months, we must present the absolutely complete breakdown of how the trading company will operate, which will manage the petrol stations, and therefore there is no such analysis. The analysis is only in relation to state sites that will become tax warehouses because at the moment in the state budget, the state reserve has provided funds to manage these warehouses, to these sites. This has been submitted and the analysis is clear. The budget shall be adopted every year by the National Assembly. The State Enterprise will be able to watch this, and the company will be able to take a decision from the National Assembly that it can have such an entity, and it will meet all the requirements, including, which was said: the warehouses will be registered as any other private object under the Fuel Act, which you have also accepted. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u27	Thank you, dear Minister. Colleagues, we are continuing with our speeches. I don't see any requests for speeches. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on State Reserves and Wartime Stocks, No 002-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 May 2020. Vote 148 MPs: 143 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Negative vote, Mr. Gechev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u28	Madam President, honourable Members! By joining all the arguments about the possible positive effects of state ownership in this sector, which is obviously cartelized, I voted against...............................................................................................the National Assembly'. There are no numbers in the importers' motives. At the moment you signed an empty check that you would be making some firm unknown with how much money, unknown with what economic effects. I agree with some of the arguments that colleague Karanikolov said, but every time every discussion in the Economic Commission, in the Budget and today, for the first time in parliament, the importers presented by the Minister of Economy bring out some new ideas. Since it is understood that 100 petrol stations can not influence the market of 4000 gas stations, even more, together with the government, we are now told that these 100 gas stations will be units of statistics and every Bulgarian, when he goes to charge somewhere, will be able from his mobile phone to see what is the Bulgarian gas station, that it is cheaper there. What's he gonna do?! We're gonna brand the private gas station and it's gonna charge. Have a nice day.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u29	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. You, too. The Minister wants to say a few words. Here you go, Mr. Karanikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u30	Thanks again. I didn't want to go into that tone, but I would remind you that the idea of gas stations was just told to whom it belongs. Let's not do this thing because, once again, the idea of these gas stations is not just to form a price of fuel. The idea is much bigger than what we're talking about. Our goal is to build infrastructure, our goal is to form a real price through these gas stations, not when such an imbalance between prices becomes available and ask us why the fuel price in Bulgaria does not fall, we should ask everyone and wait 20 days to get an answer. Once again, I want to be clear: the main policy here is the tax warehouses. We'll have more participants through the tax warehouses, we'll have more gas stations. Having more participants, we will have better prices, better service and quality fuel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u31	Thank you, dear Minister. Let us thank the Minister for his participation in our plenary sitting today. We're moving on to the second point that we voted on just now: THE LAW FOR THE CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE BIOLOGICAL DIVILITY. Report from the Committee on Environment and Water. Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u32	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I propose that Mr. Miroslav Kalugerov, Director of the Directorate of the National Nature Protection Service, be admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u33	Thank you, dear Mrs. Todorova. We are voting under the procedure of admission. They voted 114 MPs: 111, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guest to the hall. Here you go, Mrs. Todorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, I present to your attention ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Bill amending and supplementing the Biodiversity Act, No 002-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers On 5 March 2020, the Council adopted Decision At a regular meeting held on 28 May 2020, the Committee on Environment and Water examined at first reading a Bill amending and supplementing the Biodiversity Act, No 002-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2020. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Environment and Water: Mr. Emil Dimitrov Minister, Mr. Miroslav Kalugerov Director of the Directorate of the National Nature Protection Service, Mrs. Genoveva Gospodinova and Mrs. Asya Doneva experts in the same Directorate; representatives of non-governmental organizations and associations of property owners. On behalf of the importers, the bill and the reasons for it were presented by Minister Emil Dimitrov. The proposed bill aims to introduce the new approach for management of the Natura 2000 site in Bulgaria, namely the management of protected areas on a regional basis through the development and implementation of territorial management plans. The approach also provides for the establishment of new structures for network management at regional and national level. The power of the Minister of Environment and Water is regulated to develop a National Priority Framework for Action for the European Environment and Waters as required by European legislation, as well as the development of territorial plans by the directors of regional environmental and water inspections. By means of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Draft, the deadlines shall be introduced until the Minister of Environment and Water has to submit a regulation for the development and validation of territorial management plans, a methodological guide for the development of territorial plans, as well as to prepare and approve the objectives of A deadline for the directors of regional environmental and water inspections is also set for the organisation of the development and validation of territorial management plans for protected areas. The draft law is largely in line with the findings of the European Commission on the criminal procedure against Bulgaria in relation to failure to comply with the obligation to define zone-specific detailed objectives and conservation measures. Atanas Kostadinov, Dzhevdet Chakarov, Yavor Bojankov, Krasimir Bogdanov and Ivelina Vassileva took a position on the submitted bill. Mr. Kostadinov believes that the management approach is incorrect and its implementation will result in negative results and stressed that the BSP parliamentary group will abstain from voting. Mr. Bojankov expressed his opinion that a new approach and funding of the activities is needed, but believes that the texts need to be cleared between first and second reading within the working group. Mr. Chakarov generally supports the Bill as his principles and philosophy are in the right direction, but he believes that there are unacceptable texts that need to be improved between the two readings. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of "United Patriarchs" Mr. Bogdanov welcomed the bill, considering it to be moderate and objectively reflect all interests in the field of biodiversity. Ms. Vasileva expressed support on behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB. He underlined that the Bill is a step forward in the efforts of the Ministry of Environment and Water to introduce a new approach for management of the Natura 2000 network and stresses on the scientific approach. Specifies that, given the views expressed, the texts, where necessary, will be refined before second reading. On the part of the property owners' associations, it was argued that it was necessary to introduce the contractual start between the State and private owners and to find a mechanism to compensate the owners of land falling within protected areas. After the discussion and the vote held, the Committee on Environment and Water with 13 votes for.................................................................................................... Opinion: proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Biological Diversity Act, No 002-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2020
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u35	Thank you, dear Mrs. Todorova. Now follows the Commission's report on European affairs and control of European funds. Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u36	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Biodiversity Act No 002-01-12 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2020. At its regular meeting on 3 June 2020, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Biodiversity Act, No 002-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2020. The bill was presented by Mr. Nikolay Kanchev "Deputy Minister of Environment and Water." The meeting was also attended by Mr. Miroslav Kalugerov, Director of the National Nature Protection Service (NSPB), Mrs. Genoveva Gospodinova, State Expert at the NSPB, Mrs. Asya Doneva, Chief Expert at the NSPB, and Mrs. Sylvia Rangelova, Director of the European Union Directorate for Coordination and International Cooperation. The main objective of the proposed legal changes is to improve the legal framework by clarifying individual provisions, reducing administrative burden and referring to the new approach for management of the Natura 2000 in Bulgaria and in the applicable special law. In this regard, the Bill amending and supplementing the Biodiversity Act shall make the following major changes: The proposed changes introduce the power of the Minister of Environment and Water for the development of the National Priority Framework for Action for Natura 2000 as required by art. 8 of the Habitats Directive. An obligation is laid down by the directors of regional environmental and water inspections to develop territorial management plans for Natura 2000. There is a change in the duration of the management plans from 5 to 6 years. The change in the period aims to align the duration of the plan with that of programming the EU funds, as the main part of the funding is expected to be provided by the European funds. The content of the measures in the territorial management plans shall be precise, namely more precise implementation of the provisions of art. 2, p. 3 of the Habitats Directive. The Minister of Environment and Water shall be designated as a national authority for the management of the Natura 2000 Network, and its powers shall be defined accordingly. It is also envisaged the establishment of the National Advisory Council for the Natura 2000 to the Minister of Environment and Water, and its powers shall be determined accordingly. The draft proposes that the directors of regional environmental and water inspections be designated as regional bodies for the management of protected areas within the territorial scope of the relevant Regional Environmental and Water Inspection, regulating their powers. The bill provides for the establishment of committees of stakeholders to the regional authorities for management of the Natura 2000 site, respectively setting out their powers. An obligation is introduced to develop a methodological guide for the development of territorial management plans for Natura 2000s at regional level. The terminology for protected species protected by the Natura 2000 network shall be precise. The requirements for the provision of documents relating to the registration of legal persons shall be removed. The Minister of Economy's obligations to give consent to access to genetic resources from industrial micro-organisms, viruses and cell cultures, as well as its obligations to control users of genetic resources from industrial micro-organisms, viruses and cell cultures in the country's territory, are dropped. These obligations will be fulfilled by the Minister of Environment and Water within the framework of his common competence in implementing the Nagoya Protocol. The draft act also provides for technical corrections to the Birds Directive on the conservation of wild birds. The main expected results of the adoption of the proposed changes are: - the introduction of the new approach for management of the Natura 2000 network in the Republic of Bulgaria; - ensuring the overall process of developing and implementing measures to improve/maintain the conservation status of species and natural habitats under the Habitats Directive and the Birds Directive; - ensuring efficient and efficient management of the Natura 2000 network in the Republic of Bulgaria in accordance with the requirements of the Habitats Directive and the guidelines of the European Commission; - easing business and administration with regard to the application of registration regimes; - improving the capabilities and coordination of control bodies. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed, with 6 votes for the European Union and 2 votes for the Council of Ministers abstention, the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Biodiversity Act, No 002-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. The report of the Committee on Budget and Finance follows. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u38	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the The Biodiversity Act, No 002-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2020. At a meeting held on 28 May 2020, the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Biodiversity Act, No 002-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2020. The bill was presented by Mr. Miroslav Kalugerov, Director of the National Nature Protection Service at the Ministry of Environment and Water. The main objective of the bill is to improve the legal framework for management of the Natura 2000 site in Bulgaria. The Minister of Environment and Water is empowered to develop the National Priority Framework for Action of An obligation is laid down by the directors of regional environmental and water inspections to develop territorial management plans for Natura 2000. The duration of the management plans shall be 6 years, which shall aim to align the duration of the plan with that of programming the EU funds. The Minister of Environment and Water shall be designated as a national authority for the management of the Natura 2000 Network, and its powers shall be defined accordingly. The National Advisory Council for the Natura 2000 to the Minister for Environment and Water is hereby established and its powers shall be determined. The Directors of Regional Environmental and Water Inspections shall be designated as regional bodies for the management of protected areas within the territorial scope of the relevant Regional Environmental and Water Inspection, regulating their powers. Committees of stakeholders shall be set up to the regional authorities for the management of Natura 2000. An obligation is introduced to develop a methodological guide for the development of territorial management plans for Natura 2000s at regional level. This is particularly important so that the process of developing territorial plans can begin. The requirements for the provision of documents relating to the registration of legal persons shall be removed. The Ministry of Environment and Water agrees to access genetic resources from industrial micro-organisms, viruses and cell cultures and controls the users of genetic resources from industrial micro-organisms, viruses and cell cultures throughout the country. Nine opinions were received under the Law from: WWF Bulgaria, For the Tourism of Kaliakra, the National Museum of Natural History at BAS, the National Association of Municipalities, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the SDP "Balkani", the Bulgarian Industrial Association, the National Association "Bulgarian Black Sea Sea" and the University of Lesotechnical Sofia. Following the discussion, the members of the Budget and Finance Committee expressed their principled support for the bill so proposed, and its discussion ended with the following results: The Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to support a bill for amendment and supplement of the Biodiversity Act, No 002-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u39	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. The report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government follows. Who's gonna introduce us to the report? Mr. Nenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Biodiversity Act No 002-01-12 submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 14 May 2020, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a Bill amending and supplementing the Biodiversity Act, No 002-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2020. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mr. Nikolay Kanchev, Deputy Minister of Environment and Water. The main objective of the bill is to improve the legal framework by clarifying individual provisions, reducing the administrative burden and comparing the new approach for management of the Natura 2000 in Bulgaria. It is envisaged that the Minister of Environment and Water should develop a National Priority Framework for Action for the Ministry of Environment and Water, which must be approved by the Council of Ministers. The Minister of Environment and Water shall be designated as a national authority for the management of the Natura 2000 network and shall also designate its powers. The obligations of the directors of regional environmental and water inspections for the development of territorial management plans for A change in the period of operation of management plans from 5 to 6 years has been proposed, with a change in the period aimed at aligning the duration of the plan with that of programming EU funds, as the main part of funding is expected to be provided by European funds. The establishment of the National Advisory Council for Natura 2000 to the Minister for Environment and Water is envisaged and its powers are defined. The Directors of Regional Environmental and Water Inspections shall be designated as regional bodies for the management of protected areas within the territorial scope of the relevant Regional Environmental and Water Inspection, regulating their powers. Committees of stakeholders shall be set up to the regional authorities for the management of Natura 2000 and shall determine their powers. As a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management, with 11 votes for the Council of Ministers and 6 votes for the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management, proposed to the National Assembly a bill amending and supplementing the Biodiversity Act, No 002-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. And the latest report by the Commission on monitoring revenue agencies and combating the grey economy and smuggling. Mr. Angelov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u42	Madam President, Mr Minister! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Biodiversity Act No 002-01-12 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2020. At its regular meeting on 12 March 2020, the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling examined the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Biodiversity Act, No 002-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2020. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Environment and Water: Mr. Emil Dimitrov, Minister, and Mr. Miroslav Kalugerov, Director of the Directorate of the National Nature Protection Service. The bill was presented by the Minister of Environment and Water Mr. Emil Dimitrov, who focused on the main changes. The main objective of the bill is to introduce the new legal approach for management of the Natura 2000 network in Bulgaria. New network management structures are envisaged at national and regional level. The National Management Authority for the Natura 2000 Network shall be the Minister of Environment and Water. The National Advisory Council for Natura 2000 shall be set up for them and for stakeholders at regional level. The main activity of these bodies is to develop and approve and accordingly ensure the implementation of the so-called territorial management plans for the Natura 2000 network. There are to be 16 territorial management plans as well as regional environmental and water inspections. For each inspection, the territorial scope shall be covered by such a territorial management plan for all protected areas in those areas. The objective is to manage all protected areas on the basis of planning documents, enabling them to define the area-specific detailed objectives and conservation measures. This bill, which has been amended and tabled, proposes overcoming a large part of the findings of the European Commission in criminal proceedings against Bulgaria from 2018-2352, namely that Bulgaria has failed to fulfil its obligations to determine the area-specific detailed objectives and conservation measures to be included in appropriate management plans. There is such a finding in the Court's audit report. The institutions of the European Commission have repeatedly paid attention to Bulgaria's commitment to creating such structures. In relation to the initiated criminal procedure against Bulgaria and its consequences urgent action is required in order to adopt the bill, which leads to the adoption of a new approach for amending controversial texts. Since almost 34% of Bulgaria's territory falls into this area, numerous conflicts arise. In this regard, the following approach is taken to amend and supplement the Biodiversity Act: in urgent order, the main texts have been examined and the texts have been made and the texts are not subject to comment and there are no objections, and on the other hand, texts that are highly reprehensible and all affected are against them. Many of their proposals are timely and correct and are accepted in the proposed changes. In the situation thus created by the original draft law, after concerted with the European Union and all interested parties, from a total of 42 paragraphs of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Biological Diversity, 13 paragraphs are completely dropped, one is partially dropped, and on 23 paragraphs there are no notes, five of them must be retained. The Ministry of Environment and Water is about to: - forming a management structure and capacity building; - the development and adoption of territorial management plans for 343 protected areas - notification of areas of community importance as special conservation zones with the inclusion of more detailed conservation objectives for specific areas; - implementation of the priorities and effective spending of the funds envisaged under the Operational Programme "Environment" and other sources of funding. Attitude on the presented bill took the MPs: Kristina Sidorova and Julian Angelov. Following the discussion and the vote held: with 9 votes for the vote, without the vote of the National Assembly and 7 votes abstention, the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling proposes that the National Assembly adopt, in the first vote, a bill amending and supplementing the Biodiversity Act, No 002-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u43	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Is that what you want, Mr. Secretary? Here you go. Then Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Allow me before I begin my exhibition to congratulate everyone on World Environment Day! Allow me to congratulate those present here in the Chamber, your fellow MPs, Minister Ivelina Vassileva, Minister Dzhevdet Chakarov, Deputy Minister Atanas Kostadinov! I would also like to congratulate all the Presidents, Vice-Presidents, members of the Environmental Commission, who in this and in the previous National Assembly have contributed to clean ecology in Bulgaria! Let me also congratulate all employees in national parks, pool directorates, eco-inspections and those involved in the implementation of politics in Bulgaria and in front of the European Union!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u45	Happy Thanksgiving to you too, Minister! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u46	The main objective of this bill is to improve the legal framework by clarifying individual provisions, reducing the administrative burden and comparing the new approach for management of the Natura 2000 project in Bulgaria and the applicable special law. The new approach for management of the Natura 2000 site in Bulgaria provides for the construction of new structures for network management at national and regional level. The National Network Management Authority will be the Minister of Environment and Water, as we have heard several times in the reports, and regional network management bodies will be the directors of regional environmental and water inspections. The National Advisory Council for the Natura 2000 site will be formed with them and stakeholders' committees at regional level. In addition, according to the new approach, the obligation to develop territorial network management plans is introduced. In this way, all protected areas will be managed on the basis of these planning documents, which will enable the identification of zone-specific detailed objectives and conservation measures. The draft law addresses a large part of the findings of the European Commission under Criminal Procedure 2018/2352. Such findings are also contained in an audit report of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Bulgaria as of December 2019. The European Commission services have repeatedly paid attention to Bulgaria's commitment to establish a structure for the management of protected areas of the Natura 2000 network. In this regard, a significant financial resource from the Operational Programme "Environment 2014" " 2020" has been allocated to the financing of their construction and development of management plans. The delay in the establishment of management structures leads to the failure of the funds under the Operational Programme "Environment" and to the risk of their loss. The above circumstances require swift action to be taken to adopt the bill. In this regard, it was taken the approach to postpone the amendment of the contested texts for a subsequent Law amending and supplementing the Biodiversity Act, and in urgent order to address the main texts introducing communication with the services of the European Commission........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ In connection with the further meeting of the Council of Ministers, we proposed dropping paragraphs from the initially prepared and subject to public consultation Law on Amendment and Supplement. In this situation, from a total of 42 paragraphs in this Law amending and supplementing the Biodiversity Act, 13 paragraphs were completely dropped, one partially dropped, 23 of the paragraphs had no notes and five had to remain despite their differing opinions. The draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Biodiversity Act makes the following main changes: 1. The Minister of Environment and Water shall be designated as a national authority for the management of the Natura 2000 network and its powers shall be determined accordingly. 2. The National Advisory Council for the Environment and Waters is hereby established, and its powers of this National Advisory Council shall be defined accordingly. 3. The Directors of Regional Environmental and Water Inspections shall be designated as regional bodies for the management of protected areas within the territorial scope of the inspection concerned and their powers shall also be regulated. 4. Committees of stakeholders shall be set up to the regional authorities for the management of Natura 2000 and their powers shall be defined accordingly. 5. An obligation is introduced to develop territorial management plans for the Natura 2000 sites to be validated by the directors of regional environmental and water inspections after approval by the Committees of stakeholders. The territorial management plans will provide for measures to maintain and restore habitats and species subject to protection of protected areas. 6. A requirement is introduced for the National Priority Framework for Action of the Natura 2000 project, developed according to the requirements of art. 8 of the Habitats Directive, to be adopted by the Council of Ministers. 7. The names of the European Union's legal documents shall be updated. 8. The Minister of Economy's obligations to give consent to access to genetic resources from industrial organisms, viruses and cell cultures, as well as its obligation to control users of genetic resources from industrial micro-organisms, viruses and cell cultures in the country's territory. These obligations will be fulfilled by the Minister of Environment and Water within the framework of his common competence in the implementation of the Nagoya Protocol. 9. The scope of customs control and of protected species shall be extended in order to ensure full protection and to combat the illicit trafficking of protected species. 10. The procedure for reaction and accommodation in rescue centres of detained specimens of endangered species shall be shortened. The Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Biodiversity Act does not amend other laws. We believe that with the partial adoption of the bill a compromise has been made, which will, however, enable them to find solutions many of the issues raised in the years on the effective management of the Natura 2000 network in Bulgaria and a significant reduction of the risks of adverse consequences to the state.. I have already mentioned the Operational Programme. Environment........................ how much we rely on it and should not put it at risk. The timely adoption of the Bill is critical because it lays the basis for solving several key and time-consuming issues, namely: the formation of management structures and building their capacity; the development and adoption of territorial management plans for all 341 protected areas, and lastly the implementation of the priorities and the effective spending of the funds envisaged under the Operational Programme "Environment" and other sources of funding. Thank you once again and happy holiday!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u47	Thank you, dear Minister. Here you are, Mr. Kostadinov. I'm opening the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u48	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I am obliged to thank and to return the good wishes that Minister Emil Dimitrov made, with the following comment that congratulations on what was done to the teams in the Ministry of Interior over the years, I realize it more often as a debt to what we have not yet done in these years, although we have had good intentions, but there should always be such a positive approach to nature care. Why? What you're saying isn't naked, I'll try to motivate myself. It's obvious that time is too ripe. It is obvious that the European Commission tells us that if we do not regulate these processes, which we have not regulated for a long time, the funds under the Operational Programme will be frozen and probably stopped, that is, the time is now. After Bulgaria has made quite an effort to manage its waters through the so-called Water Strategy in an administrative way or within the administrative boundaries of Bulgaria, you know that the waters are not moving within administrative boundaries, but by positioning them in the swimming pools of Bulgaria, this version of the Bill is trying to administer or bring into administrative borders already biodiversity. It is unnecessary to give arguments and to comment on why this would not be possible. So I am not opposed to the four-step approach that has been introduced, it is intertwined by the European thematic centre as an idea development. But how is it implemented in the Bill? My speech aims to do the following: to do the best we can. What we urgently need to do is clear the texts between first and second readings and make a working system. There is currently a Council of Scientists, a High Expert Environment Council, a National Biodiversity Council. We are creating an additional National Advisory Council for the Natura 2000 Network, regional authorities for the management of protected areas for 16 territories and a Committee to consult them will, of course, be appointed 140 people per state.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The big problem is this. The first problem is purely administrative-structural. By law and regulation, and by application, regional inspections cannot prepare, plan, manage and control at the same time. This is not a European approach! This will be rejected by the European Commission. The programming body, the Implementing Authority and the Control Authority shall be positioned at different locations. And I am giving you an immediate example: instead of regional environmental and water inspections to be those places that will manage these territories, nowhere in the document is the Executive Environment Agency. The Executive Environment Agency, honourable Members, is also responsible for the National Biodiversity Monitoring System, the National Environmental Monitoring System is in the Executive Environment Agency, which is responsible for all components and factors of the environment. It is also part of the European Environment Agency and the National Biodiversity Monitoring System is within the Executive Agency. That's why she's the Executive Agency. It is okay for these 140 people, if they are evaluated in the way they should carry out their actions, to be precisely the Agency's staff. You know that there are exported structures of the Agency, there are laboratories we can do it. However, the same authority is responsible for regional environmental and water inspections, controlling the activity, consulting it, programming it and carrying it out, in my opinion administratively and legally, is incorrect. One more thing I would like to point out in the direction of optimising the proposed structure is that a stronger network approach that will preserve the principles of sustainable development in the management of We cannot replace the four-step approach that I support in principle, i.e. a ratification approach, how it will be managed and how biodiversity will be assessed, replace it with a sustainable development approach. You know that the use of natural conditions and natural resources should take place in such a way as to bring economic and social meaning and cultural immunity, respecting the principles of the environment. That's the guiding principle. Why would I say that? Currently there are three national parks, we have 11 natural parks, for which the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests is responsible, 341 protected areas and 55 reserves. Each one of them has controls, except for everything I've listed you so far. Nowhere in the Law has the Agency or the directorates of national parks or the authorities that manage the protected territories been mentioned. Well, that's our base, that's the platform we're working on right now. We should try to integrate you into a logical mechanism that works well. Otherwise, we can create many new jobs, but if they do not function properly, we will also damage the state budget. So in my opinion there should be a stronger network approach, it should be consolidated in a logical governance and should step on what the Bulgarian state has been doing so far. It is complicated and difficult because Bulgaria is one of the countries, you know, with the greatest availability of biodiversity through the system of Natura 2000. This is a very big challenge, but I am telling you that nowhere in governance models, however different in Europe, is the situation as complicated as we do it. So, in conclusion, I would like to call on these words to be heard, to look for more opportunities, not to overlap, which is a very serious problem, programming, management and control functions, to focus them on one body. And, in conclusion, let us also pay attention to the objections of the so-called green organisations. There is one statement that the scientific community as a whole has been taken out of the management process. As well as Moscow does not believe in tears and Brussels does, believe me. And the themes of the Natura 2000 project can be corrected, managed or commented only on the basis of scientific data and approaches, nothing else goes as an administrative approach to the European Union and the European Commission. And I do not fully stand by the opinion that the scientific community is drawn out of this process, but the law is clearly debalanced by not giving them an adequate presence. We need both the scientific communities and the interests of landowners, and the interests of the business at the centre to be the environmental issues of biodiversity, and we are obliged to find this balance. So with these recommendations, they are common, I will try to specify them a little bit, please keep them in mind and thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u49	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mrs. Vasileva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u50	Thank you, Madam President! Honourable Members, allow me to begin by congratulating the World Environment Day "Congratulations to all those who have linked their professional path to environmental protection and everyone who cares about nature. I would like to congratulate the Minister both with the holiday and with his determination and energeticity, because the fact is that this bill has a long history. As early as 2017, the discussion with stakeholders on the introduction of a new approach for management of the Natura 2000 network began. Unfortunately, there has not been much progress, despite several discussions with stakeholders, there has actually been a halt in this process. Indeed, and according to the requirements arising from European legislation and the recommendations of our partners from the European Commission, it is necessary to introduce an adequate approach for management of the network............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The fact is that the topic of........................................................................................................ The fact is that many are the questions that stand to be solved. The fact is that this bill contains texts on which a compromise has been reached in long discussions. In this sense, I would like to express the support of GERB's parliamentary group for the adoption of the Bill amending and supplementing the Biodiversity Act, of course, to inform you that a number of opinions have also been received in the Committee on Environment and Water, and the majority of them, of course, support this approach and appeal to the clarification of certain parts of the texts. We are ready to work on this in the phase between the first and second reading of the Bill. Of course, the scientific approach is extremely important. You know that it is the basis of environmental legislation, and in this sense there are texts that have been proposed by the Ministry of Environment and Water itself in the opinion they have submitted to the Committee on Environment and Water. Opinions were expressed that this approach would not be approved by the European Commission. I do not think this corresponds to reality, given that it is communicating with the European Commission. It is also important to say that the Environment Executive Agency has commitments relating to monitoring and preparing reporting to the Commission to meet the objectives, but above all, it is essential to establish an approach by which the objectives of the Environment Executive Agency are to be laid down, the conservation and general objectives of conservation, biodiversity conservation and to ensure sustainable development, on the one hand, protecting nature, on the other hand, enabling sustainable socio-economic development. In this sense, I call on all my fellow Members to support the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Biodiversity Act, because this is an important... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u51	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u52	...and a necessary step forward towards improving legislation, towards creating a single legislation that fully reflects both European legislation and the efforts of all of us to ensure sustainable development. Thank you very much for your attention. As I said, we are ready to work together with experts from the Ministry of Environment and Water to improve some of the texts between first and second votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u53	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vasileva. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u54	Thank you. To congratulate everyone on World Environment Day! Mrs. Vassileva... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u55	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u56	...we heard in your speech determination, energy, a new approach to governance, a new structure, new plans, good intentions. Now my question, rather my line, is: yes, it is necessary to accept it, yes, it is necessary that the European directives are respected. I will clarify the issue a little bit and remove it from the basic framework of the Law, while at the same time paying attention to the authorities that will manage it, i.e. territorial plans. Because, Madame former Minister, there is no minister, and I regret that, to hear it, the rights given to the directors of regional inspections where they exist, i.e. I mean that one area or two areas within ten days after a decision of the Council of Ministers or after a change of the MoEW Regulations will remain without RIEW. I am referring to Pernik and Kyustendil, two areas with severe specific productions, two areas with huge sites that fall into Natura. So as we talk about these nice things how they're about to happen, and how the Law will give a whole new impetus to the conservation of Natura, the Black Sea is happening and the closure of RIEW. So that's my line. We cannot assign responsibilities to institutions that will actually be missing. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u57	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Second line? I can't see. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Bonev, I'll start backwards. As far as what we are currently seeing at the Black Sea is concerned exactly in the Aleppu area, for me this is absolutely outrageous. As far as the structure of regional environmental and water inspections and the Ministry's Rules of Procedure is concerned, these are issues that are not of the competence of the legislature. You know very well that both personnel policy and the administrative organisation of the institution's work is not within the competence of the legislative body, so I could comment on that. The bill is not relevant for specific regional inspections. It introduces a principled approach that must ensure the establishment of a system of sustainable governance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u59	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vasileva. Yeah, come on in. Something procedurally secure?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u60	Just a suggestion, if I may.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u61	It's a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u62	I propose that the debates continue, i.e. parliamentary time continue until the vote on this bill, and then parliamentary control begins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Vasileva. We voted on this procedure when we announced the point, so this is a procedure voted on and we will continue to vote on a second point.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u64	Thank you. First of all, I'd like to thank you for Mr. Bonev's line, which was long, full and pointless. [[Radio and laughter.]] I couldn't hear anything in it. I just want to say that I am in favour of the line that is being taken on to move towards solving the problem of the management of protected areas. I would like to say to the MPs that Bulgaria allowed, only in the European Union, private interests to determine further state interests in the field of environmental protection. I am referring to several non-governmental family organizations that outlined this insipidity of Bulgaria to have 15 times greater territory in the Natura 2000 area than the country in which it is registered for the first time a national geographic company. Mr. Bonev must know where he is. In this regard, I would like to tell you that we need to prepare further, and it is legislative, to revise this insane situation. Go in the right direction, of course, but I support Mr. Kostadinov... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u65	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u66	...who said that we would really have the problem that arose in the Managing Authority on Science and Education and Innovation. There was a deputy prime minister, a former commissioner, who was trying to do the same thing as we are now trying to put the implementation, control in the same body, and I think we will be attacked, unfortunately. Furthermore, I would like to say that the Law is indeed good, but with a strong tilt on one of the scales to protect the territories in which I have checked. In some of the territories, the yellow frog has been missing in the Kotlenski Balkan for 60 years, and it has been listed as existing and is one, and there is still one frog, there are not two. [[crowd cheering and laughing]] , which gives the right to have a supposed Natura 2000. So at this stage, I propose that we support the Law, but be very careful in the second vote, because, again, the lack of balanced interests at regional level in the committees of stakeholders, where there is allowed to be no single body of non-governmental organizations... Where's Mr. Bonev gone?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u67	This is Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u68	Yeah, well, he's talking there. It means that there are xx of non-governmental organizations in regional committees for protection of interests, and there is one representative in all other regional organisations, I think it will lead again to a lot of confusion. All must be presented equally at national and local level. Finally, nothing can be changed without scientific evidence, and this low-level scientific evidence in the regional structures is missing. It is not foreseen, unlike national, to have representatives of scientific organisations. Thank you for your attention. And Mr. Bonev's attention too. [[Applause from OP and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u69	Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u70	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! My line is to Mr. Petrov. You said that Mr. Bonev had a long and irritable story here. He did not seek the treasure of Indiana Jones in biodiversity, but said very briefly, precisely and clearly that control functions of regional environmental and water inspections were introduced and two of them, pointed out them specifically.. Kyustendil and Pernik, remain without such. What's unclear, Mr. Petrov? Stand here on this stand, as Mrs. Vasileva said that this is not the work of the Commission, for which she is absolutely right, and I will ask in the reply Mr. Dimitrov to answer this question...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u71	In the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u72	...Mr. Minister: why Pernik and Kyustendil and is it true that there will be no regional inspections? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u73	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Mr. Bonev, come in. The Minister will decide whether to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u74	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Petrov, it must be important that the yellow frog is probably defined by Natura area for biodiversity protection. And Aleppu has protected species in general, but you didn't mention that. I was trying to say in the reply, now I take advantage of the possibility that the Minister is here that the responsibilities and functions of bodies will not exist in just 10 days, that a six-year development plan, which is envisaged by this law, should be implemented precisely by those directors who will not have them for two areas. Why? Are they part of another country? Or perhaps for shorter than Kyustendil and Pernik will come to Sofia? If that's the idea, okay! By this logic we can send them to Burgas, maybe to Varna. So, Mr. Petrov, it's good to know what I'm trying to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u75	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Will there be a hole, Mr. Petrov? No. Here you are, Mr. Secretary. [[Heckling]] The Minister wants to speak. Will there be any other speeches, colleagues?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Petrov! How could you think that your wife would be fired in Pernik, sir? She doesn't have to go to work, I'm never gonna fire her just because she's your wife! [[Loud noise and applause by GERB and OP.]] Why would you even think that?! It wasn't about that. Your wife in no way comes to work, nothing works, she'll never be fired. Take it easy! With regard to the RIEWs now. Have you heard that Bobov Dol has problems with prosecutorial checks, pollution hazards and so on for years?! Did you hear that on my second day of work I had to go over there and see chimneys, see measuring instruments? Who was in charge, excuse me, colleague from Pernik, for Bobov Dol? Isn't that the same RIEW? Have you heard that there are prosecutorial checks at the moment that years of unaccounted for sums of municipalities have been forgiven? He was pretending to be a finance minister, one of the former RIEW chiefs. Have you heard about this thing? Or haven't you heard about this either? You should have gone to Pernik, seen that there was a warehouse: a vault, which had been closed for 10 years, but was not closed. We had to go cut pipes and solve problems right now. You didn't hear about that either, did you? You live in Pernik? And half the town says, "We want you to close down the warehouse," the other half says, "Where's our hot water?" Last year's campaign was: we don't have water this year: we don't have steam! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] He was asking about the RIEW, mate.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u77	Do not engage in a private conversation with the Chamber, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u78	All that needed to close the RIEW is the actions of RIEW Pernik, for all the years that have passed back. Just to clarify, the RIEWs are not exactly a copy of the administrative and territorial division in Bulgaria. There are some who are responsible for one county, for one district, for two, for three. RIEW Pernik will remain in the same building and in the same place. Two people will change their business cards, no principals, a head of directorate or head of department, and that is the big problem of society. RIEW Sofia will be responsible for everyone because there they have made a state in the country and are giving me problems from the second working day. How can you do nothing for 10 years and finally say: "We sent a letter to Sofia on the twenty-one February, solved our problems. " - Didn't it exist before us? The moment you sent a letter to Sofia, we solved the RIEW's question?! So the RIEW "Pernik" will be closed, the director of the RIEW Sofia will be complex, responsible for Pernik as well. All inspectors who have been under control until now will continue to exercise control will be in Pernik and will do everything they can until now, except for two or three people who will have to change jobs. This is the big problem, because someone has to campaign for the next election, create a problem with either the hot water or the heating or whether their wife will change her business card! This cannot be a party problem, it cannot be debated by the National Assembly's stand. Five times I said: I will fire only.. even she is a temporary performer and is returned to her post, those people who created the problems with Bobov Dol, with TPP Pernik, with Kudin Dol, with Kalkas, with Beelin, with all that they were responsible for. All employees in Pernik will be reserved without three people. What's the problem? And everywhere in Bulgaria there are also similar structures that are responsible for several districts. Don't get personal, family problems turning them into party, into election, to start a new campaign, because that's not right. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u79	Thank you, dear Minister. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] In the manner of holding Mr. Kostadinov. First, the personal explanation please, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u80	Mr. Minister, I'm shocked by your statement. I am shocked because you have shifted the theme from the Biodiversity Act, depriving the city of Pernik from RIEW, from an administrative unit that will be completely wiped out in a district town. If you have an attitude, you're a perp! There's a good word for it: My wife's been working since 2008, but I don't think I'm gonna explain myself. [[noise and lines]] , from the creation of the RIEW until now. So much for personal matters, but to bring down the talk about the Biodiversity Act to the fact that you deprive the city of a district town because of two or three people. Well, fire them, take responsibility for them. Is this the way? Is that how this works? I don't understand or maybe you have a completely different view of things?! Why don't you shut down Burgas and send him to Varna?!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u81	Wait a minute, Mr. Bonev! Mr. Bonev, what are you personally concerned about?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u82	So, Minister, to attack me personally, to bring parts of my family into a conversation that concerns a Law that should have been adopted two years ago, for which the state is subject to a sanction from the European Union, I would say that it is ridiculous, arrogant and foolish of you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u83	Mr. Bonev, I'm making a note! I gave you a chance to speak. What the Minister said about the RIEW in Pernik, I found out quite differently, I think my colleagues also understood exactly what the minister meant. Here you are, Mr. Kostadinov, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I'm addressing you, Madam President, in the manner of two points. You can see that environmental issues can be attractive, too. See, colleagues, how the room is charged with energy. I was impressed by the fact that when Mrs. Vasileva spoke, there was an extraordinary noise in the room. Please, Madam President, since the questions are very important, and I will tell you why they are important, to exercise your right to President on these matters to avoid noise in this House and to hear what we are talking about. Colleagues, I see that the interest has increased a little, but I would like to tell you that Bulgaria's return and withdrawal of the application form for the Struma highway is related to some of these issues. What has not been done in the document for the purposes of Natura Bulgaria is now considered what are the financial losses of the delay? Therefore, I ask you, Madam President, that there be order in these matters. Secondly, I would like to ask you in the manner of conduct: what is valid for us is also valid for the ministers to whom we grant permission to be present in the Chamber and invite them to attend. Please, when they do not speak on the subject, be interrupted or interrupted, especially when we begin to greet each other with Environment Day and then listen to the families of MPs. Please exercise this right of yours!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u85	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. As for the noise, you're absolutely right, but I think a question has been asked to which the minister answered, so whatever he called, he called! [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Ermenkov, please come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u86	Madam President, I would expect such a reaction from the House after the beginning of the Minister's words [[noise]] , but the reason to take the procedure in the manner of conduct was your response...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u87	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u88	...of the previous procedure in the manner of conduct and I did not hear anywhere Mr. Bonev ask a question to the Minister whether he will appoint or fire his wife to answer this thing, as you have just said that the Minister had answered a question from the MP. [[Noise and lines.]] very please, when here, including responsible factors in the state, as ministers, stand up, be responsible to themselves, to statehood and, above all, to be serious about what is being discussed. Because the problem with whether there is a RIEW or not RIEW Pernik does not come down to whether there is a wife to work there or not, Mr. Minister, and you are not honored to behave like this from the stands! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u89	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. A question was asked about the fate of RIEW Pernik, and I think the Minister answered correctly. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Colleagues, I'm closing the debate and we're going to vote. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Biodiversity Act, No 002-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u90	They voted 127 MPs: for 92, against 1, abstention 34. The bill has been passed. With this, we have exhausted the legislative part of our work. Moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. First, let's give the written answers. Written answers from: - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on two issues from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev on a question from the National Representative Manoil Manev; - Minister of Environment and Lead Emil Dimitrov on a question from the National Representative Ercan Ebatin; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev on a question from the National Representative Boryana Georgieva; - Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov on a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Nikola Dinkov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the MPs Violeta Zheleva and Nikola Dinkov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the MPs Tsvetan Topchiev and Philip Popov; - Minister of Culture Boel Banov on a question from the MPs Krasimir Yankov and Chavdar Velinov; - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov on a question from the National Representative Lalo Kirilov; - Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov on a question from the MPs Ivan Dimov Ivanov and Desislav Taskov; - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov to a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on a question from the National Representative Petar Kanev; - Minister of Culture Boel Banov on a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Justice Danail Kirilov on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov on a question from the National Representative Rosen Malinov. Initiating oral parliamentary control. The first question is from the MP Krastina Taskova on the demographic crisis to the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mariana Nikolova. Here you go, Mrs. Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy, honourable Members! My question partly repeats what I asked a year ago, so I'll let you know what I got back then as an answer and I'll expect the Deputy Prime Minister to explain to us how things are going at the moment. About a year ago, you assured us that the measures taken by the Bulgarian government to meet demographic challenges have a complex and comprehensive character and relate strategically to an adequate reform and adaptation of all sectoral policies and social systems to demographic changes, having specific measures to mitigate the negative demographic impacts on all areas and areas of public life. You informed us that the main strategic document, in response to the demographic challenges, was adopted by the Council of Ministers updated the National Strategy for demographic development of the population in the Republic of Bulgaria (2012 - 2030).), and in implementing this strategy annual plans and annual reports shall be drawn up. You have also informed us that the Council of Ministers has entrusted the implementation of a serious project by the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the Institute for Study of Population and Humanities on the topic "Merki" for overcoming the demographic crisis in the Republic of Bulgaria. You have proposed a sociological survey and analysis, after which you have proposed concrete measures and by your order you have ordered the establishment of an expert group with the participation of key experts from the departments and academic circles, and the group had to get acquainted with the development of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and, as soon as possible, propose policies and measures in the field of the three main processes that determine demographic development, birth rate, mortality, migration, and develop their proposals for more effective measures to implement the government's management programme in the part of demographic policy. In this regard, one year later, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, my questions to you are: what are the data from the 2018 and 2019 accounts for the implementation of the updated National Strategy for demographic development of the population in Bulgaria (2012 - 2030).); Have positive or negative trends been observed in some of the main processes defining demographic development; what are your forecasts when there will be a reversal of these processes and we will have more birth rates; and what suggestions did the established expert group make after getting acquainted with the development of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences; what measures were taken by the government to implement its management programme in the demographic policy part; and perhaps the most important question I put in this question to you: what financial incentives the government envisages and will they find impact in the budget for 2021? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u92	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. You asked five or six questions. I hope Mrs. Nikolova can answer them. You have three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u93	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Ms. Taskova, the demographic policy of the Republic of Bulgaria is implemented by many responsible institutions and departments, as it has, as I have said before, horizontal, integrated, cross-sectoral and inter-institutional character. The annual accounts of the implementation of the updated National Strategy for Demographic Development (2012 - 2030) published in the second half of the following year. That is why we have the 2018 report and 2019 is being prepared. Data from the National Statistical Institute shall be used for the preparation of the reports. According to the data submitted by the NSI as positive trends in 2018 can be noted: reduction in infant mortality; reduction in the number of dead persons and the total mortality rate; retention of the expected average life expectancy; retention of the total fertility ratio at a level close to the average for the Member States of the European Union; increasing the number of marriages concluded; improving living standards and quality of life. Negative trends can be summarized in the fact that the process of reduction and ageing of the population continues; the imbalance in the territorial distribution of the population is deepening; the number of living children and the ratio of total birth rate is reduced. An expert working group was established to my political cabinet, which included experts from state institutions and academic circles, which came up with a proposal to improve demographic policy. Some of the proposals were organisational and others were aimed at improving the existing measures. There are already measures laid down for 2021 in the medium-term 3-year forecast: increasing the amount of one-off aid for students enrolled in the first class of 250 BGN. for 2020 at 300 BGN and from 2021 "No income criterion; introduction of new one-time aid for students entering the VIII class of 300 BGN. No lucrative criteria. The Human Resources Development Operational Program launched the operation "Parents in employment". The objectives are aimed at ensuring better reconciliation of the professional life with the privacy of parents with young children and providing employment to unemployed people by providing opportunities for child care. It also facilitates access to the labour market for parents who raise children by providing prerequisites for maintaining the level of their employment and economic activity, employment and income. The operation also aims to create conditions for the employment of unemployed parents who are prevented from finding the right job because of their children's upbringing. In this way, their equal access to employment and jobs will be encouraged, 5340 working parents with children will be supported, including 6,000 unemployed persons, of which 660 unemployed parents. As a result of the increased interest, the increase in the budget of the operation of 35 million is proposed. lv. 50 million. lv. and is to be approved by the Monitoring Committee of the Operational Programme. To date, a total of 3221 trilateral agreements have been signed to provide the child care service, amounting to a total of 32 million. 329 thousand. 81 leva. With the implementation of the Programme, Helping families with children is supported for raising children in a family environment and encouraging regular visits to school by children at school age and preparatory groups for compulsory and pre-school training in kindergartens or schools after the age of five, by integrating family assistance with other family support measures. This contributes to preventing the violation of the child's right of access to education and health care. Family benefits under the Family Aid Act for children are single and monthly, are provided in money and in kind and are intended to help raise children in a family environment. The scope of single family benefits is: single care in pregnancy; single care in childbirth; single care in adoption of a child; single help in raising twins; single help in raising a child by a mother-parent student in regular form of education; single help for students enrolled in I. class; single help in free travel once a year with rail and bus transport in the country of multiple mothers. The monthly family benefits relate to: monthly support for raising a child until one year of age; monthly support for raising a child until graduating from secondary school but not more than 20 years of age; and monthly support for raising a child with permanent disability up to 18 years of age and until graduating from secondary school, but not later than 20 years of age. The expenditure of the state budget for the implementation of the Programme is as follows: One-off benefit for pregnant women 1 million. 622 thousand. Five hundred and fifty leva.; one-off childbirth assistance supplied 25 million 423 thousand. BGN 116.; One-time foster care for a child.. 109 thousand. £950.; single money support for raising twins in the amount of the aid 1,200 BGN. for every twin child. Financial aid has been paid to 2075 children of a total of 2 million. 408 thousand. 603 lv.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u94	Mrs. Nikolova, get your head in the game. I understand there's a lot of information, but you're two minutes out.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u95	Yes, I will also provide it in writing to Mrs. Taskova. The Law on Income Tax on Individuals provides a tax preference for children and a tax preference for parents of disabled children in the adoption of any regulatory act by the government. The impact assessment shall include the impact on demographic policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u96	Thank you. You have the floor for a line, Mrs. Taskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u97	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! Your answer almost repeated what we received as a response in 2019. An extremely statistical, administrative response that really does not give concrete prospects for increasing birth rates in Bulgaria. Under concrete financial incentives, I therefore asked this question, what do you foresee in the budget? Personally, I was not satisfied because for me a concrete financial stimulus meant raising the one-time help with a live born child to parents, not quoting the total amount paid such a single individual assistance for all parents. I can also tell you more things that in 2008 had an impact on birth rates and perhaps this is the year with the most born children. Since all the proposals we make from the Volya Parliamentary Group, including the parliamentary group that you broadcast as Deputy Prime Minister of demographic policy, rejects, I use the opportunity to share them with you. Make a reduction in the months for the calculation of maternity benefits and hospital after childbirth, because this clearly gives results; increase the one-time support for the born children; give children to all parents, no matter what their parents' income is, because otherwise there is discrimination not against parents, but against children. All this would increase and, again, if you get familiar with the statistics, you will see that it gives results. However, I do not know why you permanently refuse to work, perhaps personally, you or the government, much more seriously in terms of the demographic crisis. My time is limited. You know that this is an extremely important topic for the future of Bulgaria, for the children of Bulgaria and very responsible I suggest you consider these proposals. I hope you can tell me what you think of them in the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u98	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. Would you like a duplicate, Mrs. Nikolova? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u99	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Taskova, as I have already mentioned in my reply, demographic policy has a horizontal character and in its implementation in institutional interaction and cooperation is of particular importance. Of course, analyze and consider all possible proposals that come in. Such were done and sent, including to the Financial Office, with regard to the working group, which concerned the expertise broadcast for demographic policy. The support of the family and the birth rate and the creation of conditions for the reconciliation of family and professional life have specific accents in demographic policy. The country's important support is support for reproductive health. It is an effective activity of the State in relation to the Fund, and I would like to stress here that efforts have been made to extend the scope of its activity. It is also constantly working to improve the various measures which have a lasting nature. For example, when funding from the state social security is financed, the child's maternity leave allowance up to one year of age is applied to the mother if she starts working after the child's 6 months of age, in addition to receiving her salary, she also receives 50% of the compensation due to her. Thus, women are encouraged to return to the labour market, to increase the income of the family and to improve its quality of life. Specific forms shall apply when receiving monthly support for children up to the age of 18 years, so-called children's supplements. In families where the mother is underage and is unable to organise the use of the aid granted by the State, she receives in kind via vouchers. The same applies to families for which social workers have found that they do not use the financial resources provided responsibly in the interests of the child. There is still much to be desired from the point of view of combining motherhood with the labor-professional realization of the woman. There are still employers who do not accept pregnant women, women with young children. Although rare, we have cases where women of reproductive age work in adverse working conditions, especially when working in the informal economy. Therefore, encouraging birth rates and supporting child rearing must be combined with encouraging the legal employment of women and their social protection in the workplace. In this direction, I would like to assure you that the state through its control bodies is working to comply with labour law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u100	Thank you, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. This is exhausting the parliamentary control of you. Thank you for your participation. We move on to the questions of Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. Before that, until we do the disinfection, I will read the new questions for 29 May 2020. 4 June 2020 A question was received from the National Representative Ivo Hristov to Krasimir Valchev, Minister of Education and Science, concerning the policy of the Ministry of Education and Science in relation to distance education. Answers should be made in the plenary sitting on 12 June 2020. A question has been received by MPs Rumen Gechev and Georgi Svilenski to Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance, concerning a new concept of gambling taxation, declared by Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov in March 2016. The first question by the National Representative Manol Genov is about the project readiness for the construction of the local sails of the Plovdiv section "Assenovgrad," road II-86 and the future actions of API for their financing and realization of the existing projects. Here you are, Mr. Genov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u101	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, my question, as the leading one mentioned, is about the project readiness for the construction of the local sails of the Plovdiv section At the end of 2018, the rehabilitation and doubling of the Plovdiv section was completed. In the beginning of 2020, the roundabout at the entrance of the town of Plovdiv was also built, which according to project documentation was not available at the time. Of great importance for local business, for farmers, for municipalities is the construction of local sails along this newly built route. Personally, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria has several times come to check how things are going on the implementation and the doubling of the section, on the construction of this circular intersection and expectations, as I said, both of the business and of the municipalities are these local canvases to be built. I would just like to point out that the temporary exits and inputs that currently exist along this route create a prerequisite for road accidents. God forbid they are less or not at all, yet their existence is a prerequisite for such. My question, Madam Minister, is this: when is the construction of these local sails expected to begin, is the funding necessary for this and to give a precise and clear answer in the foreseeable future when it will happen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u102	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. You have the floor to answer, Mrs Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Genov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Your question confirms that Plovdiv District is actively working to improve and develop road infrastructure, that serious investments are being made in projects important for the region. Thank you for noting this, and I will only mark some of the sites implemented last year or scheduled for this year. Construction of a circular intersection at km 254+251 on the road I-6 Sofia Burgas and approaches two local sails. Value of the contract for MPR 936 752 BGN Permission to use has been granted. Road crossroads on road II-64 Karlovo at km 48+278 on road III-606 Golyamo Chardak is a crossroads for Plovdiv. Value of the construction contract 1 million 208,000. £750. A state admission commission has been appointed for acceptance of the site. Rehabilitation and reconstruction of the road Plovdiv - Asenovgrad and construction of a circular intersection at km 14+750 on road II-86, which you are quoting. There are currently procedures for selecting a designer of the following sites: the ring road of the town of Plovdiv, reconstruction with the construction of a second road and south-east perimeter of Plovdiv. This is the section of the road II-56. These are only some examples of the efforts put in by the Ministry and the Road Agency for construction and repair of road sections and facilities in Plovdiv. As regards the construction of leading roads and localities providing access to or connection of the affected properties from and to the reconstructed route route II-86 in the section of Plovdiv "Asenovgrad," from 14 to 25 km, I inform you that for this purpose the project solution for Lot 6 implemented under the Operational Program "Regions in Growth" was re-examined in the course of its realization and the municipalities of Rhodopes, Kuklen and Asenovgrad commissioned a project for local sails on both sides of the road. Before I state in detail what the situational solution for the local project is, I would like to inform you that in June 2019, following a procedure under the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria, a contractor of engineering, design and construction has been appointed. On 1 August 2019 a contract worth 18 million was signed. 199 thousand. 753 lv. Currently, the technical project has been prepared, submitted for consideration of a technical council at the Regional Road Management Plovdiv. In parallel, the complex report for assessing the conformity of investment projects with the essential requirements for construction works and after validation of the design documentation by the contracting authority, the preparation of the complex report will also start the procedure for issuing a permit for construction by the district manager. Construction and installation works are expected to start in the second half of the year and the site will be implemented with funds from the Republican budget. I'm gonna stop here, Mr. Chairman, and I'm gonna finish up in the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u104	Thank you. Here's a line for you, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u105	Dear colleagues! Madam Minister, you've really read what's being done, but let's see what's not done when it's going to happen. I don't know how complicated your answer is the second half of this year. The second half is the beginning of July, and the second half is Christmas of this year. Anything more specific? A month, two, three? Of course, I don't want to blackmail you into committing to some deadline that then cannot be met, but to really tell your expectations for when July, August, September. We know that autumn is not always the best season for road construction. That's the essence of the line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u106	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Genov, I understand your insistence on speeding up construction activities and implementing this project. That's our wish, too. At the same time, additional drainage projects and three bridge facilities were carried out in the implementation of the doubling of the main road, so that I hope that the technical project will be approved as soon as possible, so that the district manager can obtain the documentation and be able to issue the building permit at the nearest time, so that during the construction season, i.e. during the summer, construction activities can be started as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u108	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. The next issue is also from the People's Representative Manol Genov and is on the project readiness to build a new road facility - Bridge over the Maritsa River. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u109	Dear Minister, since I just said that it is nice to talk about the things that should happen that we expect to happen, my question is related to a highly bearded problem. It's about a bridge over the Maritsa River, which was made by the German army in the 1930s. He's already able to be a museum exhibit and until the state gets here, don't come pick him up and take him to a museum one night. This bridge is in extremely bad shape. I would like to point out to colleagues who do not know the area that this is the connection between many municipalities... Asenovgrad, Sadovo, Parvomay, Brezovo, Brothers Daskalovi, Chirpan. Years ago, the bridge limit, as I recall, was 12 tons. In 2012, this restriction was introduced, so that was eight years ago. A limit of 5 tonnes was then introduced. An extremely important road, an important connection that connects these municipalities. Surrounding this connection from heavy goods and other types of vehicles that cannot pass along this bridge makes it extremely difficult for the population to live in this area. People grow fruits, vegetables, go to exchanges on one side and the other. This makes it difficult for them because, in the presence of this restriction, it does not give them the right to carry larger quantities, cars with greater load to pass. I have been asking this question since 2014. Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova was honored to promise me and to lie to me with some deadlines. The same honor was given to Mr. Nankov. I can't remember how many times I asked. I see that in previous mandates colleagues from the region from different political forces have asked this question. I think one of the last answers was that a plot is being made, a project is being drawn up for a brand-new bridge facility, but in the end, we ask ourselves this question for seven years, and somehow the answer remains on paper and no effect of these questions for now, so give people a little hope with your answer, Madam Minister. I don't know what he'll be like, but keep in mind that he's expected of many people to be positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u110	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. You have the floor to answer, Mrs Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Genov, the project solution for the new bridge over the Maritsa River on road III-667 Fruity "Assenovgrad at km 6+832 provides for the facility to stay 15 meters from the existing bridge in the western direction and to be with the gauge of the road 7 meters. The carrying capacity of the structure will meet the current regulatory requirements for load capacity and traffic intensity, with the new facility creating the conditions for safer traffic of all vehicles along it, and will, of course, reduce travel time. The current information for the implementation of the Project is as follows. The plot of land for the site was approved at the end of 2019 by the National Expert Council on a structure on the territory of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. A decision of the Municipal Council of the Municipality of Parvomay on the provision of the affected properties, which are municipal property, as well as the change of purpose for three forest properties. Also at the end of last year, the Road Infrastructure Agency announced public procurements for the selection of contractors of the construction and construction supervision of the site. It will be implemented by means of the Republican budget. By Decision of 11 March 2020, a construction contractor was appointed "Hebros 2019" at a bid price of 5 million. 883 thousand. BGN 138. with VAT, pending the signing of the contract. The construction period is 360 calendar days and starts from the date of signature of Protocol No 2 for the opening of a construction site. The contract for the selection of a contractor of the consulting service submitted offers until 30 January 2020. 15 offers were received. The Commission shall examine the price proposals of the participants in the procedure already. The complex report for assessing the compliance of investment projects with the essential requirements for construction works, issuing a permit for construction and real construction activities is to be prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u112	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. You don't want a line, so there won't be a back. We move on to the next question from the National Representative Dora Yankova on the National Energy Efficiency Programme for multifamily residential buildings. You have the floor, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u113	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, my question is about government policy and this year regarding the implementation of the National Energy Efficiency Programme for multifamily residential buildings. There's a small amount in the Budget Act. At blitzcontrol you said 148 buildings are about to be put into operation. Since this is one of the policies with which the governments of Borisov since 2015 are especially proud, my motive for this question has the following sound: with these 2 billion financial resources, 2022 housing blocks must be renovated according to the rules of the programme itself. No doubt people get a better quality of life. There are undoubtedly other pros, but in society is the bitter taste for the quality of some of the housing blocks that are sanitized and parallel to that the echo of your partners from the previous meeting on the reproach of how the public resource is spent. And since during the emergency situation and then for the measures there was a meeting of the Prime Minister and part of the cabinet Borisov 3 with the Construction Chamber, then in the public space announced that the program could be opened again, and we also know the opinion of the municipalities as a second announcement to the questioning. As of 2016, many contracts between the co-owners of floor property, mayors and regional governors were deposited with the Development Bank. These 2022 blocs have received financial resources, but there are more than 2500 that stand. Four years of these people are fueled the expectations that, you see, Parliament can decide, and we can change it, wait, we will also make changes to your quality of life, and change the housing blocks. That's what motivates me to ask you about this policy, for this year with its overall sound, what has been done so far and when will it be completed? The announcement of how it will continue to be implemented and in general your view as Minister of Regional Development, under whose direct observation is the program itself and the National Program for Implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u114	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. You have the answer, Mrs. Avramova, within five minutes, as this is a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Yankova, between January and May 2020, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works continued the energy efficiency policy for residential buildings in three directions. First, complete the current stage of the National Energy Efficiency Programme for multifamily residential buildings. Second, the development of a next stage pilot project for the buildings with applications submitted within the application period under the Programme of the Bulgarian Development Bank for the conclusion of target funding contracts. Thirdly, the development of long-term strategic documents to create a vision for a wider renovation of the existing building fund of residential buildings in the country. In the first direction, the implementation of the current stage of the National Energy Efficiency Programme. At this stage of the Programme, there are signed contracts for targeted financing of 2022 buildings, and as of May 29, the registers supported by the MRRB reported that 1876 buildings were renovated and put into operation, remaining to renew 146 units located in the territory of 15 municipalities. For these 146 buildings, the data shows that 52 buildings are in the process of carrying out construction and energy works; 54 buildings are in the process of conducting public procurements for the selection of contractors for engineering of the SMR; 23 buildings are in the stage of the first phase of renovation, technical and energy audit; 8 buildings are in the process of conducting technical and energy audit procurement; 9 buildings are not awarded public contracts for technical audit. In the period January-May 2020, the Council adopted Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 47 buildings have been put into operation, 15 buildings have an open construction site and 4 buildings have launched renovation activities. On the two-way, the continuation of the Energy Efficiency Programme. Given that the current stage of the Programme is in a final phase, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works is ready to launch a next stage of the Programme, calling it a pilot project for 1951, which have already submitted requests within the specified period for applying for contracts for target financing. At this stage, a transition to sustainable policies with an added value to achieve both investment sustainability in energy efficiency measures and better management of floor-based buildings will be sought. Our focus in implementing this stage will be to strengthen the role of municipalities; to strengthen the responsibility of owners; to better control and communication in implementing the measures; to specify the scope of eligibility of activities. These are measures and changes to the Programme that we will take after the detailed analysis of the activities already carried out in the first stage. The proposal and the opinion of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, and my opinion, will be those 1951 buildings on which the owners have made efforts within the time-limit for applying, and have submitted applications for contracts under the so approved rules at the first stage of the Programme, to continue to implement the projects under them at 100% grant from the State, as the Programme has launched and the conditions under which all owners in the building floor property have submitted their documents. So the renovation of the roof, the thermal insulation and the replacement of the windows, the main energy measures prescribed in the energy audits, our proposal will be for the buildings for which documents are submitted and waiting for contracts to be 100% grant. The next step is to open up a debate in which to debate the continuation of the Programme, that is, a new energy efficiency programme, in which to already specify the self-participation of all owners of residential buildings. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Since my time is up, I will continue my answer shortly.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u116	Maybe after the supplementary questions. Thank you, Madam Secretary. You have the floor, Mrs. Yankova, for further questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, for your response so far. But I would like to, as there is a great deal of interest, you yourself said Those who are now in the process of implementation, I hope that you will complete them with enhanced control of the quality of performance. The question is, and I will ask you more clearly to engage: when will the program open in time? By the way, my question is: with what financial resource, because in the Budget Act this is currently missing? If there will be an additional financial resource, does this mean that we will make a new budget update and a decision of the Bulgarian Parliament? What are the forecast values for these 1981 housing blocks? Because in the public domain, information was leaked that the Construction Chamber was debating with government officials that they could do with a billion and 500. Approximately the same number as they've done so far for 2 billion. In other words, what will be changed and people will want quality performance? That's my first supplementary question. My second question is: I would like to hear your opinion on what has been implemented under the Programme so far, and what does the Inspectorate report to you, which was institutionalized on a proposal from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, namely to control this programme and public resources? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u118	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. You have the floor to answer, Mrs Avramova. This time it's three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Yankova, on these supplementary questions you asked, 1951 are the buildings and documents submitted to the Bulgarian Development Bank. The continuation of the Programme for these buildings, naturally, depends on a broad public consensus, political consensus and, of course, the provision of financial resources. I can't commit to time and deadlines. I can only express the opinion of the Ministry and my own opinion as Minister for the continuation of the program in the formáta, in which it was 100% financed by the State. Of course, the Ministry of Finance after thorough analysis will be able to give a little more information about when and how these funds can be provided. The continuation of the Programme and what you are referring to as a quality of implementation, I said earlier that, firstly, this is a programme that should demonstrate in the first stage the effects of energy efficiency and benefits for people, to overcome the negative attitudes towards it, the moods in society, but this period has given us the opportunity to draw the relevant conclusions. In continuing the Programme we intend and have already signed conditions so that we can introduce clear commitments in the process of organization and control of implementation of the municipalities, the paying agency, the owners' associations, higher requirements and responsibilities at each stage of the investment process, starting from the design, construction and monitoring of the companies that perform the consulting services, i.e. the construction supervision. Investor control must also be at a very high level. There must be a more active and more effective commitment of the owners to specify energy efficiency measures and to participate in the selection of contractors of construction works, as well as control of the construction itself. Although there have been a lot of information in the public domain for poor performance, our monitoring shows that it is within 1 to 2% of all the construction activities implemented. In recent days, we have received many letters from mayors of municipalities and also letters from people who already have submitted documents to the Bulgarian Development Bank. They have made efforts, made an association of owners with which they have applied. So there is strong public pressure and pressure from the Association of Municipalities to continue the Programme. Clearly, people were convinced of its benefits. So there is a debate on how to continue the Programme, how to finance it, a next stage in which to introduce co-financing, the co-financing rate or the activities that will be co-financed, but this at a further stage. I believe that this Programme will find the political and public consensus that is needed to continue, which has already proved its benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u120	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. You have the opportunity to express your attitude, Mrs. Yankova. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u121	Dear Mr. Chairman, Minister Avramova, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! When you proposed this programme to the Bulgarian Parliament in 2015, I had the opportunity to be one of the Members of the Parliament, who we have challenged a parliamentary discussion. Then we offered you the program to be national, with a road map and to be solidarity. At the moment, unfortunately, after 4 years you come to this conclusion because I remember by 2015. The UN Development Programme was testing in certain municipalities how to start this programme. There was a preparatory period, but then there really was co-financing. I do not know what emotions have brought you to the moment, and so far the Bulgarian citizens have received no grant because it is public money of the Bulgarian society, they have received 100% funding of the projects that have been implemented so far. Now, from this question to me, it becomes clear that the government is willing, but it is in a small toupic, because it needs those people who are in the Development Bank and are waiting for some sort of answer, but it answers only with your desire and with a public discussion, there is pressure from both municipalities and citizens. Secondly, there is no way that these rules, which are agreed at the Development Bank, can change them. That's how you're gonna have to keep going. But the third, which is coming, if we are going to have a public public debate and this programme will be national, at what cost and why would some be one hundred percent with financial resources from public resources and others have to co-finance? I mean, even at the entrance, the program has been distorted, perhaps by a more prickly entry into the emotion that it should be implemented. Yes, in my opinion, in the context of this crisis with an unenlarged public resource, with an understanding of what should be done, it makes sense that small companies can work, because the big ones are now on the ground of large public sites and small ones as subcontractors and in times of crisis, and with great unemployment, they could go home along with this industry. But my address to you is not to fuel expectations, but much sooner to have some clarity: will there be a public resource, how much will it be? Clearly, if you give it up this year, it'll go on like this. I reserve the right to ask the same question as the Minister of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u122	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. We are going to a question from the National Representative Sevim Ali about the state of the Republican road I-6 Karnobat You have the floor, Mr. Ali.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The road I-6 Karnobat is a road from km 449+012 from Karnobat city to km 485+704 from Velvet district, Burgas city is a road from the Republican road network that connects with the municipality of Karnobat, the municipality of Aytos, the municipality of Rouen and the municipality of Bourgas. There is a major alternative bypass route of the highway "Trakiya" in the section from the town of Karnobat to the city of Bourgas. According to my information, the last complete rehabilitation of the road section was carried out in the distant 1995s, i.e. 25 years ago. Dear Minister, since then, several partial repairs have been carried out and the pavement has been mended in various sections of the road section, which is, of course, very necessary, but unfortunately, it does not solve the problem cardinally, as there is a highly depreciated and worn asphalt with networked cracks and deformations with numerous failed areas of the pavement. The road I-6 Carnobat is a first-class road from the Republican road network, which is the main alternative route of the highway "Trakia" in the section from the town of Karnobat to the city of Bourgas and has a very intensive movement due to the fact that the same section is a major artery serving by citizens and workers of the municipalities of Sungurlare, Carnobat, Ruen and Aytos, appearing as main service and construction staff of hotels, holiday stations and amusement facilities on the Black Sea coast. At the beginning of March of the current year measures were taken to partially patch the road section, but, unfortunately, this does not solve the problem, as the problem with the overall rehabilitation of the road from the exit of the district was solved. It is necessary to perform a complete major repair of the above road section from the town of Karnobat to the city of Bourgas. In this regard, my question to you, Madam Minister, is: is there funds provided for in this 2020 for the main rehabilitation and repair of the entire road section of Republican road I-6 Karnobat Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u124	Thank you, dear Mr. Ali. You have the floor to answer, Mrs Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ali, it is undoubtedly the importance of the first-class road I-6 Carnobat "Burgas" for carrying out transport communication in the region, as you mentioned, about the links with the municipalities Karnobat, Aytos and Burgas. Indeed, the route is a major bypass route of the highway "Trakiya" in the section from the town of Karnobat to the city of Bourgas. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and Road Administration take this fact into account and therefore efforts are being made to improve the operational qualities of the section and separate sections of the road are regularly included in the repair programmes of the Road Infrastructure Agency. Over the past three years, the Agency has invested significant funds in the implementation of repair activities about 11 kilometers from the route of the territory of Burgas, for which more than 13 million are provided. lv. At the end of 2017 a preventive repair was carried out three kilometers from road I-6 from the intersection for the village of Glumce to the intersection for the village of Sokovo from 450 to 453 km. For the activities 2 million are provided. 799 thousand. 954 lv. The construction of road flooring, drainage, landscape shaping, etc. was carried out. In 2018, the Road Infrastructure Agency and the Municipality of Burgas concluded a controversial protocol for joint financing of the two road lanes in the section of the district of Velvetn "Vetnen" 488 km to the city of Bourgas "496 km," with a length of 7.8 km. The contracting authority of the repair activities is the municipality of Burgas and the implementation of the Road Infrastructure Agency. The funds for the repair of the two lanes of road I-6 are from the budget of the Road Infrastructure Agency and amount to 10.4 million. lv. The construction and construction works, which ended at the end of May this year, included milling, asphalting of a second bitumen spill, machine laying of a dense and non-solid asphalt mixture with an average thickness of 4 cm, laying of a geoweb and other construction and installation activities. In 2019 to improve the technical and operational qualities of the section from the town of Karnobat to the district of Vestren.................................................................................... Since the beginning of the year for the repair of compromised locations and ensuring visibility and gauge around 96 thousand have been provided. lv. As the need for a complete repair of road I-6 Carnobat Burgas over the years becomes more and more up-to-date theme, the Road Infrastructure Agency is planning to carry out activities in 2020 to assess the condition of the 37km section in order to achieve project readiness so that in the first half of 2021 we have this readiness to specify the financial resources needed for repair and reconstruction works. For a real start of such repairs we can talk, since there are already approved building documentation and financial resources in the Agency's investment programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u126	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Ali.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for your rapid reaction and for the answer you gave me to the question asked about the operational state of the road section of the Republican road Karnobat. This is a question and problem that is constantly posed by the inhabitants of Burgas region at my meetings with them. The movement along this road section is quite intense because, firstly, there is a major road artery of five out of 13 municipalities in Burgas region. Secondly, what you also said is an alternative bypass route of the highway "Trakiya" in the section between the town of Karnobat and the city of Bourgas. Thirdly, it also takes over from Varna region to Burgas region through the Aytos Pass, namely the people who have decided to use the road Provadia "Duskotna" Aytos, an extremely important road for which for years the municipal leadership of the municipality of Rouen and the management of the DPS have insisted to be repaired, as it is extremely important not only for the district but also as a whole for the country. As far as I know, there's been a construction permit issued and a contract with a contractor for the long-awaited repair of this road section. Dear Minister, we are all hoping and waiting for an hour sooner to begin this long-awaited repair of the road section Provadia "Duskotna" Aytos, because last year, when I asked you about the bad condition of this road section, believe me, this year, having predicted the end of the winter season, it is difficult to find words to describe to you how bad its operational state is right now. This is a prerequisite for road accidents precisely in this road section. So our request is that they start the repairs in this road section as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u128	Thank you, dear Mr. Ali. Would you like the word for the doppelganger? No. We continue with the next question by the National Representative Elhan Kulkov concerning the operational state of Republican Road III-1972 Dubnitsa You have the floor, Mr. Kulkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the House, Dear Minister! The third-class Republican road III-1972 "Dubnitsa" "Volkocel "Satovcha" serves a large part of the population in the municipalities of Garmen, Hadjidimovo and Satovcha. Part of the road between the villages of Blatska and Valkocel is in a very poor operational state, with many cracks and deformations, and fallen sections of the road. There is also a landslide on km 7+700, which has been unfinished for years and is a prerequisite for road-related accidents, with the passage through it being extremely difficult. The inhabitants of the three municipalities have repeatedly expressed their dissatisfaction through protest actions, but so far there is no result. Given that the section of the road is very intensive and in order to avoid accidents with a fatal end, my question to you is as follows: Is the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works within the current and next budgetary year planning to carry out the necessary actions to repair and rehabilitate that road section? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u130	Thank you, dear Mr. Kulkov. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Kulkov, Republican Road III-1972 passes through the municipalities of Garmen, Hadjidimovo and Satovcha, connects the villages of Dubnitsa, Blatska, Ablanitsa, Fergovo and has a total length of 32.7 km from zero to 32+700. The third-class road is really of great importance for the residents of the region and the Road Infrastructure Agency. It appreciates its importance, so that a public procurement for the construction of a technical project for major repairs of 27.7 km from road III-1972 is envisaged in the Agency's investment programme for 2020. The first section is 8 km long and its beginning is from the intersection with road III-197 at the village of Dubnitsa and ends three kilometers after the village of Blatska. The second section is 19.7 km long. He started at the end of the village of Ablanitsa and graduated at the village of Satovcha. The estimated deadline for the award of the contract, according to the Programme and the activities of the Office of Road Infrastructure, for the selection of a designer is at the end of August 2020. At the same time, the Ministry and API are looking for opportunities to finance the construction works. In relation to the preparation of the Agency, the Road Infrastructure (R &amp; D) for the application of Operational Programme "Regions in Growth 2021" has been prepared a prioritized draft list of the road sections proposed by all district road managements, which is provided to the Managing Authority of the Operational Programme, including road III-1972, which also confirms our efforts to secure the financing of the repair. Regarding the section at km 7+700 on the third-class road, I inform you that this place is about falling. In 2009, a pilot system of steel concrete and drilling extruding pilots was implemented and a support wall was built. Due to activated geodynamic processes and heavy rains, the pilot system in the middle is sinking. Cross and longitudinal cracks formed, there was a severing in the axis of the road along the entire length of the section and vertical displacement of the two lanes of movement, and of the troughs of the lined trench to the left. In order to improve the performance of the track, partial repairs and re-asphalting of the entire section are carried out, periodically checking the drainage system on the skate. The design assignment will also set requirements for the section around km 7+700 on the need to predict specific reinforcement events. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u132	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Kulkov, if you want? No. We then proceed to the next question by the MP Lyubomir Bonev concerning a landslide on Republic road II-63 km. 22+950 km 23,000. You have the floor, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! The Republican Road II-63 is an international road artery, passing entirely through the territory of Pernik region, the length is 68 km. It is the only road link with the Strasimirovci Border Crossing Point at our border with the Republic of Serbia. However, on km 22+950 there is a landslide that threatens the integrity of the road and the cars passing by it, both light and heavy. In order to avoid incident and subsequent problems, it is necessary to strengthen and remove it in a timely manner. In this regard, Madam Minister, my question to you is: what measures will you take to strengthen the landslide of km 22+950 on Republic road II-63 and, most importantly, Minister, in what deadlines?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u134	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. You have the floor to answer, Mrs Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Bonev, Republican Road II-63 Pernik BGN 352. Since the beginning of this year activities have also been carried out to mend compromised areas, partial repairs are also being carried out at the moment. The main reason for the formation processes in the sections from km 22+960 to km 23+100 and from km 24+100 to 24+300 left and right is that the road is completely in a high embankment, which is re-humidified by the nearby ravines. You know that heavy goods vehicles and transit traffic also contribute to the poor condition of the deformed sections. In 2018, local repairs were carried out on the road to stabilize the road to the left about kilometer 23. Despite the activities carried out, the decline continued and currently has a depth of about 80 cm. The division shall be periodically flooded with rock material, signalled with road signs and safety tape, and the movement shall be carried out in the right waiting bar. In 2019, the Road Infrastructure Agency commissioned a technological project to restore the sections from km 22+960 to km 24+200 to the left. The project solution is agreed by the Institute of Roads and Bridges and provides for the establishment of a pilot-anker system that will lead to the strengthening of the section and stabilisation of the deformisation processes. According to the quantitative account for the reinforcements, 538 thousand are needed. 384 BGN, the indicative deadline for the start of the project provided for in the technology works is the end of June or the beginning of July, and the activities will be implemented by the road-support company for the region. The funds are provided by the budget of the Road Infrastructure Agency. Experts from the Agency will continue to monitor the cited sections and in deepening geodynamic processes, such as deformities and falls, slumpings, will submit timely information to investigate these sections and registered through the Geo-Stands Ltd., Pernik as landslides. When registering it as a landslide, however, the site will now have to be included in the respective programme and any construction will have to be carried out from here to there, taking place under the Law on the Construction of the Area. So at the end of June, the early July funds were provided and should begin the strengthening activities of the section in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u136	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! I hope it will happen at the beginning of July, June, as you yourself said. I will recall the chronology, Madame Minister. On 22 February 2019 you return a written reply to me, I will quote it verbatim: "In the period 2015 to 18 February 2019 on the Republican Road Network on the territory of Pernik municipality no rehabilitations or major repairs have been carried out with funds from the state budget, targeted funding and European co-financing. "This is your written answer. I'll continue on my way to II-63. I stress the international, our only connection, entirely within Pernik region. Your written answer of 6 February 2019: The condition of the pavement of the quoted kilometers is unsatisfactory. "In order to understand what we are talking about, I will say that from the length of 68 km of the route, 43 km are in unsatisfactory and poor condition. For the landslide, this is by the way my second question, I signaled last February, a year and four months. I'm sorry I didn't bring pictures of you to see that one canvas isn't really working! It's not functioning, Madam Secretary. We have to constantly ask about things that API is obliged to do, to do in time, so that the lives of all traveling along this path can be guaranteed. I will not open the theme of the state of infrastructure on the territory of Pernik region at all. I'm not going to open it at all, because in the last 10 years they've been rehabilitated under 3%, 575 kilometers, 3%, that's approximately 5 km. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. Finally, perhaps this landslide is an accurate reflection of the overall state of infrastructure in our country. By 2017, according to the Global Competitiveness Index Report, Bulgaria was 93rd in infrastructure. In last year's report, we're going to the 103rd. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u138	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Would you like the word for the doppelganger? Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Bonev, we are June 2020 and on this day and this month I told you that this landslide, regardless of the problems that have occurred in time, regardless of the delay, will be implemented Project with pilot strengthening at the end of June. I would like to stress that there are many landslide processes in Bulgaria that were looking for their funding and you know that they have already been allocated for 74 landslides over 400 million. BGN, which started activities on design and strengthening of landslide processes in Bulgaria. The problem is not the unwillingness of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works or the Road Infrastructure Agency to respond in a timely manner. As we all know, the problem is the difficulty of providing this large resource at the same time, which is needed to rehabilitate the road network in Bulgaria. Our diligence is to prioritize and gradually repair the road infrastructure that needs repair in each area. Unfortunately, many sections in Bulgaria need a major repair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u140	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. We move on to the next issue by the National Representative Nikolay Ivanov on the Project of Integrated Territorial Strategies for the Development of Level 2 Planning Regions for the period 2021 - 2027. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u141	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! On the day of the announcement of the emergency situation on 13 March 2020, the amendments to the Regional Development Act were published, which practically started the planning process. It requires the preparation of very important planning documents for the development of the country and regions from the National Concept for spatial regional development through integrated territorial strategies for the regions for planning from level 2 to plans for integrated development of municipalities. Projects of these integrated territorial strategies for the development of the Level 2 planning regions have been published. Their public consultation period and the submission of proposals by interested parties were extended but it expired. My question to you is.. during this public consultation and this discussion interested parties have made what proposals and at what stage is their assessment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u142	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. You have the floor to answer, Mrs Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ivanov, in answer to your question, I would like to provide you with the following information regarding the conduct of the coordination procedures mandatory in the process of developing the integrated territorial development strategies for the level 2 planning regions. The process of public consultation and consultation of stakeholders is not limited to the publication of the draft documents of the public consultation portal on the website of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. In order to include in the process of developing territorial strategies projects of a wide range of stakeholders, the documents were also provided to the responsible departments for the implementation of other sectoral and horizontal policies, including to the managing authorities of the operational programmes. In addition, the projects were also provided at regional meetings of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. The regulatory period for public consultation expired on 21 April 2020, but the comments and proposals received after that period were considered and reflected as appropriate. By changing the regulatory framework, the basis for the implementation of the Level 2 integrated territorial development approach for planning regions, including the content and purpose of strategic regional and spatial development documents, is aimed at developing a partnership model and promoting cooperation between different stakeholders at local level. In this regard, interested parties were given the opportunity to make proposals for priority integrated projects in the six areas to help identify the objectives and priorities of the regions and to establish a common assessment of the indicative financial resource. The proposals and comments are currently systematic, discussed with experts from the team, developing integrated territorial strategies for the development of the Level 2 regions. The drawing up of the coordination tables for each of the six draft documents, which will state the reasons for the adoption or non-acceptance of the proposals received as valid, is ongoing. They will be published on the public consultation portal of the Council of Ministers in order to ensure transparency and feedback with those who have made proposals. In general, the comments and proposals received in the public consultation process can be divided into two main categories, and therefore there are those which contain elements of both categories. General comments, firstly related to the content and analytical part of the draft documents and the formulation of specific priorities for the development of the relevant planning regions. These proposals have been received in most of the ministries, managing bodies of operational programmes and state agencies. Secondly, concrete proposals for inclusion of regional sites, project ideas and specific activities, which are sent by regional managers, municipal administrations, representatives of NGOs, business and academic representatives. The proposals are of a diverse nature and cover almost all sectors of the economic and social development of the planning regions. I'll finish my answer in the back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u144	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u145	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Minister, it is commendable that immediately after the promulgation of the Law the planning process started at a good pace. What I think is a huge risk is this. Firstly, I continue to argue that we are behind in the time limits for this whole difficult process of preparing these important planning documents. But along with this, during these two months, three months including, during which we were all in a very difficult health situation, it is clear to us all that the socio-economic situation has changed sharply. This calls into question the extent to which the basis from which this planning has started is that all the authorities at all levels, both the non-governmental and government sectors, and all the stakeholders have actively involved, but the base has changed, which means that somewhat what has been prepared here as planning has not been up to date. Along with this, I am sure that these planning documents will be extremely important for the possible help Bulgaria will receive in the famous European Recovery Plan, which is currently being discussed. And my additional question to you is: do you think that this risk of the entirely new socio-economic situation, especially in the Northwest region where I am elected as a Member of the National Assembly, can make this whole planning process prove obsolete? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u146	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ivanov, I will only complete my answer with regard to the second part of your question as to what stage is the assessment of the proposals received, informing you that prioritizing the proposals received is guided by the principle of appropriateness and based on expert assessment. The adoption, respectively, non-acceptance of the proposals, is based on criteria that reflect the importance of the idea, the project for the development of the region, the submunicipal scope, the investment interest, the prerequisite for integration of investments, the economic contribution to the creation of new jobs, the support for technological renewal, innovative solutions and industries, public acceptance and possible support from local communities, the degree of development of the idea and project readiness, and last but not least, the expected positive impacts on other initiatives and added value, synergies. I inform you that the next steps towards drafting the final version of the documents are discussion and approval of the draft documents in the regional development councils, their passage through a procedure of interdepartmental coordination and submission for consideration and adoption by the Council of Ministers. Within the framework of these procedures, of course, we expect constructive proposals and comments to be addressed and reflected. The Ministry and the Managing Authority of the Operational Programme have an indicative timetable for the development of all documents and preparation for the next programming period 2021. I want to assure you that even in the period of the emergency situation we have not stopped working. We have a tight schedule that we keep so that in the spring of 2021, we are ready to start, of course, if they don't change... The basic concept will not change, rather investment priorities in the regions concerned can be changed. But this is a topic that you have now addressed about the additional funds with which we will restore the economy. That's what we're still working on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u148	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. Here you are, Mrs. Ninova, for a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u149	Dear Mr. Chairman, Ministers, Members of the National Assembly and Bulgarian citizens! Today is World Environmental Day. The clean environment is one of the guarantees of a healthy lifestyle. Access to clean water, air and food is natural in the 21st century and in Bulgaria, which has wonderful nature and many natural resources. But let's see where we stand today in relation to the waters! We are where the irresponsible management of three consecutive GERB governments has pushed the entire water sector for 10 years. For years, our country has been obliged to reform its water sector in stages and in time, by absorbing billions allocated under the operational programme for this purpose. Billions are lost, opportunities are wasted, and Bulgarian cities and villages, resorts, neighborhoods and households continue to live in unacceptable risks of poor and even risk to health drinking water. The 12 billion you've been waiting for. BGN needed to reform the water sector turned out to be a repeated number in vain. The government continues not to implement the reform of the scale in which only this reform makes sense. Where are the funds provided, where are the investments in renovation of the plumbing and sewer infrastructure of cities and villages? According to experts, even at present the invested funds of European and national, complemented by the resources of the municipalities, can solve at best the problem of about 40 50% of our country's population. What about the others? The confession of chaos in the management of the water sector no longer warms anyone. Everyone shuddered in front of the system's corporate losses due to depreciation of three decades of plumbing infrastructure. It is enough to give examples of the present and not far from past. In Haskovo, for example, we have been questioning the purity of drinking water for three years. 70,000 people live there, but they don't use it for uranium and alpha activity. Residents of the municipality say the taps are leaking uranium. More than the available experts. The example of Varna just a few days ago. Thousands of cubic meters fecal waters and 5 million. Euros broke in Varna Lake! A river Chepelarska, the river Yugovska, contaminated with cyanides according to official data of experts.. vivid examples of continuing irresponsible attitude towards the cleanliness of rivers and waters in Bulgaria. We also have questions, of course: what is going on with the state water holding company, which you have accepted, honourable government, with 1 billion. lv. capital. Holding exists on paper, and there's no capital at all. What happened to the five hundred million granted to the state-owned dam undertaking; how many dams were renovated and where did the money go? All specific examples of a misguided, inadequate and irresponsible policy. Let's see what the condition is in terms of fresh air? Bulgaria is the first in the European Union for air pollution with fine particulate matter. Fifteen thousand Bulgarians die annually according to the World Health Organization from the contaminated air in Bulgaria. Let's continue with the waste. The governments of Borisov turned Bulgaria into the landfill of Europe. Unregulated burning of waste was found in Bobov Dol, in Ruse; illegal dumps in the village of Kalipetrovo. "Sylistrensko, Pleven, Vratsa, Yambol, nine illegal dumps in Asenovgrad and so I can list dozens of Bulgarian municipalities, towns and villages. What measures were taken there? Does the government have any idea how many illegal dumps there are in Bulgaria; how many tons of garbage is imported from Europe; what is the fate of this garbage; what is the fate of the Bulgarian land, air and water poisoned by it? We don't want much, we want clean water, fresh air and clean food! New EU funds are expected to be allocated to the recovery of the consequences of the coronavirus, but which are granted under conditions: to improve the living standard of the Bulgarian people; to improve the social systems and health care; to increase the life of the Bulgarian citizens - all important issues, which have a very clear cashiership to the topic. Is there a government plan in this direction, what to do and how to react or are these billions of euros going to flow again in the approached companies to power without any effect for the Bulgarian people? After the crisis with the coronavirus, which was also a health problem, the issue of clean water, food and air becomes a major issue of the health of the Bulgarian nation. It is a fundamental human right in the 21st century that every person has access to clean water, clean food and clean air and our responsibility is to guarantee the Bulgarians this right. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u150	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. For a declaration by a parliamentary group...... please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u151	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Bulgarian citizens! Happy Environmental Day! This is a topic that is not static and which neither begins today nor ends tomorrow, nor has it started 20 or 30 years ago. In the last 10 years Bulgaria has made progress on this topic. I will recall when this tribune talks about dirty water, about the lack of treatment plants, that over the last 10 years dozens of treatment plants were built and there went the money you are talking about, Mrs. Ninova. Thanks to the European taxpayers today on the Bulgarian Black Sea coast there are many more treatment plants than 10 years ago. For 20 years before that, the water system was broken down or at least not managed, and it was not an investee in it. More than 10 billion are needed today. BGN to upgrade the system of water supply and sewerage. This money could also be European, but it should certainly be Bulgarian. This is a huge resource that cannot be realized in one year, in two years, and perhaps even in five. These are long-term commitments that should be the commitments of any government, regardless of which political power it is broadcast from. Asking questions for us is the smaller commitment, our commitment is to give answers, and we are giving them through our attitude to the environment and through the investments that are being made in this area and which you yourself, Mrs. Ninova, mentioned earlier from this tribune, only in the form of a question. You think that money went down. I will advise you to go to the sea at least this year, on the Bulgarian Black Sea coast and you will make sure that there are actually treatment plants that work there. A water company was set up, not a water company, but a company to centralise the water system, just so that these investments could be made. I think it would be a big mistake for the opposition to reject such ideas, because their purpose is to have a long-term character. They cannot be implemented in the next one year. Questions of the type What happened to this company that was established just a month ago?.................................................................................................... On the contrary, we need to think about what will happen to this company in the next 10, 20 years and you as a major political force in my opinion should also make a commitment to the Bulgarian citizens that you will continue what was started 10 years ago, at least in this area. These questions are not questions of ill-gottenness. These are strategic issues. It is a fact that today with all the problems of the Bulgarian environment, which surely exist both air and water and food, are much cleaner, incomparably cleaner with what happened 30 years ago [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria]] When the fall of communism started in an ecological movement. It was no accident that members of the Central Committee of the Bulgarian Communist Party joined. 30 years ago, all of this was in complete disintegration and total ruin, and no one cared about any citizens, and no one could say there was dirty air out of this tribune! And there was one because it wasn't that long ago. Even I remember it because I am from Burgas, what happened to Neftohim, who poisoned the land around Burgas, who poisoned the land of Kremikovtsi with meaningless productions. But we certainly have to make a balance, we have to stimulate both production and the environment at the same time. Today, production is much cleaner than it was 30 years ago. And this is not because of the GERB government, it is because Bulgaria joined the civilized world because in other countries production continues to be as dirty as it was here 30 years ago. It's not good for us to be constantly capricious. Of course, every day we will face environmental challenges, but the efforts that have been made may not be only by the governments of GERB and by previous governments, in any way should not be minimized and should not be neglected. Because these are achievements of the entire Bulgarian society, of the Bulgarian business, which is responsible or at least of the part which is responsible for nature and we must make sure that this nature is managed well, the environment ultimately, because we are humanists, must serve man and man must protect it above all for himself. Therefore, I call on you to be more guarded on this subject, because we remember far more severe and poisonous periods where not only efforts were not made for the environment, but no one was interested in it at all. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria: We were nine million!]] There were 9 million of us because the borders were closed and there was nowhere to run. That's why they ran away after we let them, both you and your party, after Todor Zhivkov was overthrown, the people left.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u152	You've been ruling for ten years!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u153	And that's why they left, but the argument here... I do not want to get into the dispute about communism, anti-communism, it is that Bulgaria is moving forward, sometimes in spite of you. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u154	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. You're welcome, Mr. Zarkov, but only in the manner of conduct, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u155	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Ministers, honourable Members of Parliament! My procedure is in the way of conduct, because the unspeakable speaker has allowed himself to qualify questions that the opposition has asked him as inadequate. You should have intervened and said that as representing the ruling party, he could not qualify the questions but owed answers. Appropriate or inadequate, it's not him who decides. What is certainly inadequate today is to pour tons of feces into Varna Lake and have him talk about 30 minutes ago...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u156	30 years ago.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u157	...and it's inadequate that... [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u158	To me, to me is the problem! Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. We're continuing with parliamentary control. Question from the National Representative Nikolay Ivanov on the integrated system for exchange of information between the Road Infrastructure Agency and the Ministry of Interior and the Customs Agency. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u159	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, ladies ministers, honourable colleagues! Dear Minister, in March a public contract was announced for the integration of the Tol Fees System of the Road Infrastructure Agency with the information systems of the Ministry of Interior, the Customs Agency and the National Revenue Agency. The purpose of this reconciliation is the exchange of information in real time and an instruction for this reconciliation has been prepared, the public consultation of which has been completed. My question to you is: at what stage is the construction of this integrated information exchange system and what specific functions will it have? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u160	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u161	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Ivanov, first of all, I would like to clarify that no public procurement has been announced in March, as you have formulated in your question, for the integration of the Road Infrastructure Agency's charging system with the information systems of the Ministry of Interior, the Customs Agency and the National Revenue Agency. On 6 March 2020, the public discussion was concluded, in fact, of the Information Exchange Instruction Project, the terms and conditions for access to information systems for the purpose of controlling, establishing and sanctioning infringements related to the collection of road charges between the The instruction was published in the Official Journal of the European Union on 28 April 2020. The issuance of a joint instruction by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, the Minister of Interior and the Minister of Finance is in compliance with the regulatory requirements of the Road Traffic Act, thus establishing conditions for the effective implementation of the provisions relating to the obligation to pay wine and tolls under the Roads Act. Under the Road Traffic Act, control of the payment of the road toll is entrusted to the authorities of the National Toll Management as a specialized unit of the Road Infrastructure Agency, the Ministry of Interior, as well as the Customs Agency, when the road vehicle leaves Bulgaria's territory through a border control post. With the integration of the information systems of the three departments, control will be carried out over compliance with the obligation to pay tolls and to identify and track the offences committed, regulating the access of officials from the National Toll Management to identify and sanction road offences to data on registered vehicles in the National Register of Vehicles and their owners, led by the Ministry of Interior, to establish ownership and use for the purpose of issuing electronic slips and criminal decrees. As a result of the integration between the systems, the Ministry of Interior and the Customs Agency will receive data in real time on the traffic of road vehicles on the paid road network of the Republic of Bulgaria. On 10 April 2019, following an open procedure under the Public Procurement Act, a contract was concluded with subject: Four hundred and ten thousand. lv. with VAT. The construction of the integrated system in the individual institutions at this time is at a different stage. In the Ministry of Interior, law enforcement integration is completed and works in production environment, i.e. information is obtained in real time. The Office of Customs and the integration tests in a test environment are completed at the end of May and integration is expected in the first half of June to work in a production environment. The National Revenue Agency is facing integration tests. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u162	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u163	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, it's not a line, it's a supplementary question. First of all, I apologize for the inaccuracies of the period of the announcement of this procurement for the integration of systems. As we heard, it was announced in April. My additional question to you is: does this integrated information exchange system, other than law enforcement control for the collection of tolls, also provide in the future enforcement of control functions of the departments whose information systems are compatible with the API information system, and in particular with regard to the control of the infringement of the Road Traffic Act implemented by the Ministry of Interior? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u164	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u165	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Ivanov, yes April 2019, and now is the final performance of the activities under this procedure. As an answer to your additional question, the system that is built to collect tolls is based on modern technologies that allow convenient means of payment and control without hindering the road vehicle and its free movement. The functionality of this system will allow electronic access to officials from other departments who control the implementation of the obligation to pay tolls as they have as a commitment to the Ministry of Interior and Customs. At the same time, this information collected from the electronic toll system will be able to benefit both authorities in tracking traffic, combating the grey sector, so that data and information can be supplemented. The system itself can be complemented so that all departments have the opportunity to use it and it works in the interest of rapid processing of data, as well as faster finding data in the work of all other departments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u166	Thank you, dear Minister. We should thank Minister Avramova for her participation in today's parliamentary control. We are going through with questions to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy "Mrs. Denitsa Sacheva. The first question is from the MPs Nadia Klisurska, Violeta Jeleva, Dimitar Danchev and Kristina Sidorova concerning problems in the implementation and administration of the measure 60/40 of the respective Ministerial Decree for the maintenance of employment of employees in the emergency situation. Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u167	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! One of the most advocated by the government as an effective measure is the so-called measure 60/40 or the one with which Decree No 55 of March took a step to preserve employment in enterprises that have suffered from the state of emergency and coronacrisis. Unfortunately, from the screens every day we hear that this measure retains more than 250 thousand jobs, but when we talk, it is good to talk with facts and I will read the latest actual facts relating to the measure. My question is related to its administration, because I believe that there are problems on this measure, which have not yet been addressed for two and a half months after it is already working. The figures are: more than 15 thousand applications have been submitted by companies to save 251 thousand 953 jobs. The amount that the State has so far given is only 60 million of the 1 billion allocated. BGN, but the actual compensation received at the moment is 157 thousand 504 people. Most likely the numbers that will be communicated to me in a moment will be corrected, this information is from two days ago. And that's just for 10,000 businesses, which means a difference of 251 to 157 thousand. But if we look at the lists that have been published on the website of the National Insurance Institute, we will see that a large percentage of companies have applied twice and received twice compensation. But there are companies that have received three, four, five instalments, which means that we do not retain the employment of 250 thousand people, but only about 100,000 people.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u168	Finish up, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u169	This difference shows problems with administration and I will mention some of them. We have reports that companies have been refused after an appeal without justification. We have questions about the application of art. 1, para. 4 of the Decree, which regulates the payment of compensation for the entire period or part thereof, without any clarity on how to apply this. We have signals for employers who, after receiving compensation, have not paid the salaries of their employees, as well as for cases of double funding of public and municipal employees. In this regard, my question is: what actions are you taking in the cases described above, is there an analysis of the effectiveness of the measure and are there any changes to it in order to improve it? Excuse me, Madam President. Thanks for the opportunity to say everything.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u170	Thank you. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u171	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Klisurska, I will correct your numbers a little from the point of view that yesterday's data are as follows: we have a total of 15 286 applications for 259 256 employees. The total amount of the funds paid is 73 million. lv. about 11 000 employers to keep more than 170 000 jobs at yesterday's date. When we talk about keeping jobs, we are talking about 170 000 people with a unique single civil number, that is, in those 170 thousand we report, there are no recurring people! The difference in this to 259 000 is, of course, due to the fact that some of the employers have submitted two or three applications so far because it is their right. They may apply for one month, two months, three months and could also submit several applications, but each time they can submit different applications for different people. So the exact number of reserved jobs will become clear, as we have said many times, at the end of this month, and especially at the end of the next, when the last payment of funds under measure 60/40 will be completed on 30 July. So what is announced from the screen is by no means manipulation of the facts, on the contrary the facts are very dynamic because every day someone applies. The refusals you speak of do not prevent companies from submitting applications again because some of them do not meet the relevant requirements. With regard to employers' signals. If you have such signals, I urge you to hand them over to the General Labour Inspection. To date, four such checks of employers have been carried out by the General Labour Inspectorate, but thus no violations have been detected. The same applies to the signal you are saying here from the stands of the National Assembly for double funding of municipal structures. According to our data, such double funding is not carried out because the municipal organizations that have applied so far have applied for people for whom there is therefore no money from municipal budgets. Regarding the future of the measure. Its new design is currently under way and is likely to be launched next week at the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation, as well as at an interdepartmental discussion. What will be changed is that the groups of those to whom compensation will be paid will be substantially extended. It will now be possible to include registered unemployed persons, i.e. if the employer decides to hire unemployed persons from the Bureau of Labour and accordingly provides for the procedure for submitting applications and approvals to remain the same. The new is also that the tax liabilities will be at 31 December 2019 and a text against declared tax obligations for 2020, and even if they are not paid, it is not a reason to reject the application accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u172	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Klisurska, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u173	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister Sacheva, from the data you have pointed out, I believe that the things you have actually presented are not justified enough. They are related to the fact that in the end we can all check the lists that are published on the website of the National Insurance Institute. If we open the lists, we will see that the repeating of companies is not really possible to detect the unique identity names of the persons, but we see that there are more than 50% of the companies applying for the second time. It is interesting and ambiguity in me that the measure 60/40 helps when you talk about state and municipal companies, supports, again I say, the water sector, because I do not think that this is a sector that has been affected by the coronavirus. If we look at the list, we'll see that there are water enterprises that we know are state and municipal. From another point of view, looking at the list, we will see that it includes regional museums, which are within the competence of the state, include municipal markets, include municipal museums, so that my appeal to you is generally to check whether there is such double funding. And it has nothing to do with us waving a finger and saying: these things are not right! I believe that there are many companies that have been affected by the coronacrisis, and I will mention something: The National Statistical Institute a few days ago came up with a study of what is happening to non-financial enterprises in April " 57% of non-financial enterprises are affected by the coronacrisis. What these statistics show is that employers do not resort to measure 60/40 and only 8.4% have resorted to it. A large part of employers use the entire paid annual leave of their employees, unpaid leave as a possible option, remote work and only 8.4% of them benefit from this measure, which shows that business does not find this tool effective for them. I am not saying it here in view of criticising, but in view of what you have actually said, it is necessary to improve effectively and the instrument to really help the affected sectors. With regard to the refusals of companies. What makes me distraught and in my hands I hold such a refusal, and we know that in Order No. 55...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u174	Guide to completion!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u175	...is regulated that the registers which will be used to compensate under the measure are related only to the registers of the National Insurance Institute, the NRA and the Employment Agency. Currently the refusal was made on the basis of the data from "Ciela" which has nothing to do with state registers. So my appeal to you is: administer the measure effectively and not only four checks to be carried out by the General Labour Inspectorate, because that is what I see in the response to my colleague Petar Kanev, but to be regular so that employees can effectively receive their remuneration for which they are compensated by employers. No questions, my appeal is this: let the measure be effective for the majority of the undertakings concerned!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u176	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. A hole? You will not use it, Madam Secretary. We move on to the next issue by the MPs Violeta Jeleva and Rumen Georgiev on the contracts for the so-called student brigades in the context of the state of emergency in the country and the world. Here you go, Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u177	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, about 6000 Bulgarian students annually benefit from the so-called cultural exchange programmes between Bulgaria and the United States. Currently, the Student Brigades Programme, which is regulated by the US State Department, has not been cancelled. Students have signed their contracts with the US employers, arranged the conditions of their trip, only an interview for a visa is due, but due to the state of emergency in the country the interviews have been postponed. The question we are putting is that, despite the exceptional circumstances of March this year, in the country and in the world as a whole, intermediaries continue to apply standard conditions. What does that mean? The student may give up, but it will bring very large penalties for him, because the penalties are determined on the basis of when he gave up and how long before he left. This is the understanding of firm intermediaries, which show that there is a lack of the clause "fors major" in the contracts they have concluded. My question to you, Madam Minister, is dictated by the fact that the decision of students not to travel will be caused by a risk to their health and security, but it would mean a serious unjustified financial loss for these young people. Given the nature of these contracts, I would like to ask the question: what is your attitude towards this problem and do you foresee actions to find a fair solution to this situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u178	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jeleva. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u179	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Zheleva, the COVID-19 pandemic has led to the greatest restrictions on international travel, including in the implementation of the Summer Programme "Work and travel" on which, according to information on the website of the US Embassy in Bulgaria, approximately 6000 students travel to different cities in the United States every summer, where, in addition to the useful practice of English, participants acquire work experience in different areas. After completion of the employment contract they are entitled to 30 days of additional stay in the US to travel around the country before returning home. Students participating in a summer student brigade travel to the United States with the help of an accredited sponsor. The American sponsor is directly responsible for finding the right job for students, as well as for the overall success of the Programme. In order to make it more accessible to the students, there are many authorized by the US country Bulgarian agencies to recruit candidates who serve as a link between sponsors in the US and students, while some of these agencies carry out regulated activities under the Tourism, Tourism and Tour Operator Act. Candidates under the Programme shall pay the relevant visa fees. If a candidate cannot arrive in the US in time for the beginning of the Programme, as reflected in the form certifying the participation, the application must be suspended until the start date of the Programme is changed to the Internet-based electronic data system for foreign students SEVIS. At the embassy's recommendation, applicants must not buy tickets before receiving their passports with a visa. In the standard terms of the contracts, if a visa is not obtained, the amount that the students have paid accordingly shall be reimbursed. In this sense, it is possible that the dates of travel can be renegotiated with which students do not lose their rights accordingly. In view of the above, we consider it appropriate to apply existing mechanisms for payment of benefits to customers in the case of unfulfilled journeys. Under the Bulgarian legislation, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy could not influence processes of occurrence, action and termination of relations between private entities, and disputes arising should be settled in the order of civil proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u180	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sacheva. Mrs. Jeleva, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u181	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Sacheva, I understand that these are private, labour, legal relations, especially with another country outside the European Union and I am familiar with the treaty clauses, but these contracts are employment contracts. That is why I am asking this question to you, because these contracts have been concluded, on the one hand, with the US employer with the sponsoring organization from America, but also with intermediary companies from Bulgaria. In this case, what is achieved by the fact that these programmes are declared cultural exchange? A large part of the firms.. are not registered with the Employment Agency. This is my question to you: don't you think that all companies should be registered with the Employment Agency? Because there is a company that mediates for work in Germany and England, for example, has such licences and is registered, and most of the companies that are intermediaries for the United States do not have licences and are not registered. Moreover, one of the biggest companies to mediate for this has had a registration in the Employment Agency, but it was only temporary until 2018. As far as I am aware of the register, there was only one of the companies to have such a license. Here is the question: is the Employment Agency thus not running away from responsibility for being able to control these contracts and the conditions under them? In this situation, students are forced to conclude anexes with which they will lose extremely much of the amount they have given, and their rights will be violated, in my opinion. Here is the role of the state and the respective portfolio ministry, to which the Employment Agency is, to be able to monitor these contracts so that they do not harm so many young people, especially in this difficult situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u182	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jeleva. Madam Secretary? You're not gonna use the back. We should thank the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mrs. Sacheva for her participation in today's parliamentary control. We continue with questions to the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev. The first question is from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov on joint activity between the Consortium and the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology. Here you go, Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u183	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, colleagues! During the crisis with the closure of the weather station at Musala peak in 2016, some media claimed that it was about the personal interests of the Director General of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology, who has a business with automatic meteos. The article of the NIMH Director of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is proud that his company sells to its own office on 12 October 2016. In front of the newspaper Professor Hristomir Brunzov admits that the company has joint activities with the Institute for Participation in Projects. He informed about the won projects worth several hundred thousand leva, and then the company supports the devices it has produced. In this regard, Mr. Minister, I ask you to answer me: what joint activities are there between the Consortium and the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology in the period 2008 - 2016, which is now an institute of your ministry? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u184	Thank you, dear Mr. Stanilov. The Minister of Education and Science Mr. Valchev has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u185	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stanilov, as soon as I received your question, I ordered an inspection of the Inspectorate at the Ministry of Education and Science. It was carried out in a short time, but I'm sorry I couldn't answer your question sooner. I can provide you with a copy of this check. In short, during the period 2008 - 2016 there were no joint activities between the Consortium and the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology. The issue was discussed at a meeting of the Management Board of BAS in 2018, because until 1 January 2019 the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology is part of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. There was no conflict of interest then either. Regarding your specific statements. Quite briefly, the examination shows that the facts you have submitted are confirmed about the current state of the trading company with which Professor Brunzov was having an affair, but there are no legal restrictions to transfer the shares to anyone. With regard to other claims, the information on joint activities is not confirmed. In short, the analysis of the evidence collected shows that some of the allegations are credible, but they do not constitute violations. The other allegations are unreliable. We assure you that if we receive evidence of a possible conflict of interest, we will immediately refer to the Commission for Countering Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u186	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Stanilov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u187	Mr. Minister, thank you for me. That was good. This is a document, Mr. Minister, which I present to you for a joint activity between this company and the Institute for 2019. The event has developed in Stara Zagora. There are more of them, but I don't want to do this job. This director doesn't belong there. In addition, this director has aged and has to be retired and removed immediately for the countless violations, frauds and so forth that he has done. A mistake is the passage of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology to the Ministry, but it has already been carried out and is a fact, and we will not talk about it. I think that there should be a directorate and such an institute there should be at the BAS. This question that we are talking about with you, and which I am constantly asking you, must solve a problem. Last time I asked the Minister of Environment and Water why didn't he take this institute with him where he belongs? He said such a scientific institute had no place in the Ministry. Similarly, he said, as could be with me, could be in the Ministry of Agriculture, could be in other institutions that he serves. This institute should be either a directorate to serve it and have a scientific institute at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, or it should just be sent back, which is also impossible. What's done is done! Let's fix something, get rid of this director, put in a real director who won't commit fraud with companies and tangles in such activities. I personally have no doubt about you, I have never doubted that you are well-intentioned in this regard, but it was simply done under the influence of circumstances. That's actually my question, which in a sense is punctual, but I think it might work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u188	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u189	Thank you, Professor Stanilov. I will impose a deliberate re-check, rather an addition to the previous one, especially because of the additional information provided. The Law on the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology is under way, which is about to begin its examination at second reading in the Committee on Education and Science. At the beginning of the year, changes were made by you in the Law on Higher Education, which regulated the age limit of 65 years for taking up executive positions. The same similar rule is found in the Statute of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. You have made such a proposal between first and second readings in the Law, which, given that we already have a precedent in higher schools and in the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences as the largest scientific organization, is logical. The National Institute of Hydrology and Meteorology has dual status. It is both a scientific organization and a National Hydrometeorological Service. Back in history it was either to the Ministry of Education, as it was said in the past, or to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. It serves 6, 7, 8 sectors or entities of 7 or 8 sectors, so it has a multisectoral, multisectoral significance. Logic to be to the structure of the Ministry of Education and Science is that it is also a scientific organization. Prof. Brunzov is a long-standing Director of the Institute, elected by the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences in the past, and his last appointment before the age of 65 is from me on a proposal from the Scientific Council of the Institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u190	Thank you, dear Minister. Here comes a second question from the National Representative Yavor Bozhankov on the closure of the metropolitan school. St. Cyril and Methodius. In the village of Polykraishte, Gorna Oryahovitsa municipality. Here you go, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u191	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, the Center School of St. St. Cyril and Methodius "in the village of Polykraishte" is a school with nearly 200 years of history and a sufficient number of students until just a few years ago. Unfortunately, during the emergency situation, the local authorities decided on its closure without the necessary public consultation without hearing people's arguments, which logically led to legitimate protests. That was the basis for my question, and in the meantime, your reaction, for which, Minister, I strongly congratulate you. In this way, some of the questions raised here are dropped because they have found an answer in the public domain and he dares to claim it is positive. However, in order for your coming here to make sense, and in order for my question to make sense, we must tell ourselves what the reasons were and what we will do from now on. The middle school has a good material base, a well-funded school. At the central level, your party has stated that education is a priority, the preservation of educational institutions, too, but in the last three years three directors have been replaced. From there begins a shift of lecturers, leaving of teachers, logically eviction of students. Regional education management is in my opinion passive and does not take measures. That is, there is some lack of communication between the Ministry and regional structures. When it is too late and the students are few, the decisions are painful and the period of one year you have given for the preservation of the school will be critical. I believe it won't be easy. I therefore ask you the question: what do you intend to do as measures in this one-year period, which you announced publicly, for the preservation of the school? What are you going to do as a job change because I think there's a pass? The mayor of the village of Polykraishte claims that the problem is in delegated budgets, i.e. a systemic problem. Local people say it's the school's mismanagement of the school's change of directors, wrong politics. The opposition in the municipality claimed that there was a conflict of interest even that it was some serious land to the school which did not go to the school which it accepted but to the municipality, which was a mistake. Please explain what mistakes have led to this situation, what measures will you take and what is the vision for the future of the school? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u192	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojankov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u193	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bojankov, elementary school. St. Cyril and Methodius "in the village of Polykraishte" has the status of a municipal school. According to the legal framework, the municipality and I are in a committed competence.. They can only offer closure of school, I can refuse or accept the proposal, I cannot initiate it myself, respectively the Municipality cannot close it itself. In the last three years, as a minister, I have made eight refusals to close schools on municipal proposals. There were hardly any in the previous years. Unfortunately, in recent decades, numerous schools have been shut down, mostly as a result of internal and external migration processes, which have also led to negative demographic processes. What has been done in recent years has had a national programme that has helped and stimulated to some extent the optimization of the school network and the closure of schools. We've canceled this program. Since 2018, there has been no such programme, municipalities have not been stimulated. The other thing we did 2017 with the budget 2018 to change the financial and distribution formula in the system and the funding of municipalities, hence the schools, is not limited to the number of students. We have funds that are for an institution. We also have the means for a class. In this way, additionally between 60 and 70 million were targeted. lv. to finance small and remote schools. Separately, we've provided 30 million. lv. for schools and kindergartens with concentration of children and students from vulnerable groups. This school is also one and it gets funds. So we could say that about 100 million. lv. We've given extra to schools like this. We did a financial analysis. The school is with 43 students, but with a tendency to stay with 35 depending on how many are enrolled in the first grade. What I can clearly say is that the problem is not financial. The school also has school grounds of 280 acres, as I understand it, nearly 14,000. lv. additional revenue, he gets $5,000. lv. like a school with the concentration of children from vulnerable groups. In recent years additional funds have also been made available to protected schools. That means maximum compensation for such a kind of school. The problem is definitely not demographic either, unlike other proposals we have to close schools. Why isn't it demographic? Because there are over 60 children in the village who are in school from the first to the seventh grade, and the upcoming to enroll in the first grade are ten. But at the same time, only three children from the village are taught at the school. All the other children are from the neighboring villages where the schools are closed. So the decision in this case to have few students in this school belongs to the parents who chose their children to study in Gorna Oryahovitsa. In many cases, what we can say as a general rule is that the decision to close schools is not in the municipality, it belongs to the parents who chose to live, or at least their children to study elsewhere. And here is the question: why do these children go there? Just because of the better conditions? No. Not so much for better conditions. Here the main problem is the so-called phenomenon of secondary segregation. The secondary segregation is: when children of Roma origin increase above a certain percentage, the withdrawal of the other children starts because of preconceptions and especially because of the desire, or rather the attitude of parents to give their children the best education, understanding that in one such school with a large number of Roma children, this will not happen. However, this is not the case, it can be overcome. I gave them an example with a village in the neighboring municipality of Lyaskovets, which managed with an active school guide to overcome the problem of secondary segregation and the children from the village study there and did not go to Lyaskovets or Gorna Oryahovitsa. Indeed, the problem here is what the residents have told you. What the mayor told you about delegated budgets is not true, but what the residents have told you is true. The problem is the active school management and the activity of the pedagogical team in general. I haven't given them a year to close the school. What I said is that within a year they have to show results. I reprimanded the head of the Regional Education Department because the school up until three years ago had an active director, but he chose to be the director of another school, he applied, he won the competition. Then the students were 140, respectively the children of this village studied at the school. Since then, there has not been a change of directors, but rather a few temporary acting director. There was no active role on the part of the regional government and this is a failure by the Ministry. Schools should not be closed for such reasons. We have other cases of schools with 30 students. In general, 30 is the limit that provides effective socialization, because every decision to close we look at it through several criteria........ at the next nearest school, i.e. how many will have to travel, what are the children, are they willing to travel, because very often children who are of Roma origin do not go to study in the neighboring village in the relevant school, how many children in the first grade, is there a good material base? In this case, what we can say is that the municipality has invested funds, which shows the positive attitude of the municipality towards education in all schools, and it should not be blamed, but in no case should the closure decisions be dictated by the fact that there is unfinished work. Each case we look at separately. We have similar cases where the first grader is like one. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] If I may finish?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u194	Yeah, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u195	Another such case, where there is also a public debate, has a first-grader. After all, a school should also allow socialization. In a very low number of children, and we have a school now and with four children, but if this school closes, they have to travel for an hour and a half, it's in the Rhodopes. So in any case we are looking for the balance between these criteria. In this case, it is our opinion that the school should not be closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u196	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Bojankov, would you like to use a line? I deliberately let the minister tell the story because it's a really interesting case, and it's about the kids.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u197	For which I thank you, Madam President, and the Minister for his reply, because it is important, first of all, that we understand whether we agree on the reasons for the problem. And I believe that the Minister has taken a good look at the situation, because indeed the problem is not financial, although it has been declared a major motive precisely the financial model of the local authorities. It's not a demographic problem either. Anyone who knows the town knows that. The problem is indeed rooted in the management of the school. A school only three years ago with a sufficient number of children such a sharp reduction speaks of a problem which is also missed by the Regional Management of Education. The case is not isolated because the school is central, as you said, using children from other settlements and there is nothing wrong with that, they are good students, by the way, all very active in cultural activity. They in turn participate in the Chitalishte. So this is a connected system. If he stops the school in Polykraishte, he stops the transport. This means that it is only a matter of time before the kindergarten is closed, because the school transport rides and children to kindergarten. So one problem after another is going to get a lot bigger. And although late, it is better to start solving it now. Good analysis of the reasons, and I think we're on the same page. From now on, however, we have also heard a little bit about the concrete measures, what specifically do you intend to take in this year? After a year, what results do you expect exactly? Are you going to make any structural changes? This did not make it clear to me how exactly a year from now the situation will be different from what it is now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u198	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojankov. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u199	Thank you. Visiting the village gave me the opportunity to talk to the local community, the pedagogical collective. What we have agreed with them, although we have not formalized it, is that they make the most of their efforts to overcome the problem of secondary desegregation, to have talks with parents. Including parents who now want to keep school, have participated in the protest, have decided their children to study in Gorna Oryahovitsa. The best support for this school is just their kids going there. The head of the Regional Government to announce a competition, to gather if the community has to choose the most motivated person as director, because the fact is that we have schools that work well, and schools that don't work so well. The main reason for this is the Director's activity. Where there is a good director who gives his best, shows dedication, professionalism this affects the overall work of the school, the work of the entire team and vice versa where there is no active director, or where there is a temporary management, as in the case of the school, more or less leads to a decline in the work of the school. These are the specific measures - daily work. In education, it is actually a multi-day and multi-hour effort to be made in school, working with parents, working with children. There is no specific indicator that we have told them exactly five children should stay from these ten in the first grade. The next week I will submit to the Council of Ministers and I hope the Council of Ministers will approve amendments to the Law on pre-school and school education to the National Assembly. They are in three parts, but one of these parts also concerns the control of boards and school lands. The fact is that our forefathers gave what they most had and donated school lands to schools, but during the optimization of the school network, other reasons for the school demand, the unclear status of the board of directors, a large part of this land fund, which has been donated to schools, has been lost for the education system, he has gone to municipalities. Now we're going to suggest that if a school is closed, the land should not go to the municipality, to go to the admissions school, even if this land is donated to the board. Accordingly, we will also offer control of the boards. This will eliminate the stimuli of municipalities to close schools for school lands, what you mentioned and I neglected to answer in the first part of my exhibition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u200	Thank you, dear Minister. We should thank Minister Valchev for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We are going with the questions to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev. We begin by asking the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Georgi Mihailov, Ilian Timchev, Desislav Taskov, Valentina Naydenova, Ivan Ibrishimov and Anna Slavova about a strategy for improving the working conditions and financial compensation for the Bulgarian medics. Here you are, Mr. Yordanova, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u201	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! In the context of a CIVID-19 pandemic, one of the words, which immediately fell into a stressful situation, but on which the whole society relied, were medical specialists. Dear Minister, you know that this has caused a lot of difficulty, because at least in my practice for the first time in many years we have been in such a situation and no one has had an attempt to act under a pandemic. The main questions that you and your team were supposed to be solving were two. The first was about the working conditions of the medical specialists and the second for their incentive payment. Here we start things that we need to analyze because God forbid the situation is repeated again, and this is absolutely not excluded, as you very well know, we do not want to find the hot water again, but we need to have an algorithm to follow. The first thing you've done is to limit and properly limit the scheduled reception in hospitals and thus to some extent identify the medics who, in your opinion, are in contact with potential carriers of COVID-19. It is a question of why we should immediately proceed to the worst and highest level of hospital healthcare, and not to use the outpatient network. After all, you have paid attention to these doctors from hospitals and those from emergency medicine who, in your opinion, welcome possible carriers of the virus. So out of your sight the medical specialists remained at all from outpatient care dentists and pharmacists. Hospitals were told that they were the first line, without telling what specialty, that is, all the specialties, because when the patient, the patient, who is qualified for viral transmission, entered the hospital, his accompanying diseases determine which ward he should enter, cardiology, gastroenterology, surgery, orthopedics and so on. In connection with your quarantine order, which is correct, I do not dispute it, however, it turns out that those medics who welcome this sick should actually have a quarantine to survive in the hospital, that is, they should be quarantined for two weeks in the hospital in question, that is, they should sleep there, live there, and at that time, however, they cannot rest because there is no one to replace them in their jobs, and they should also work. So they started living in hospitals. This caused a number of their problems, mainly financial problems, because their families were left without them, financial support increased when the main financial carriers in the family did not have them.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u202	Face the question, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u203	Yeah, I'll get to the point. However, we will also discuss these issues in the future. Today, our specific question to you is: what is your strategy for improving the working conditions and financial compensation of the Bulgarian medics - doctors, dentists, pharmacists and medical professionals in the conditions of a long-term pandemic with COVID-19? You have limited the scope of activity to practically all medical professionals. Are you considering orders that allow doctors, dentists, pharmacists and medical professionals to be fully burdened in a pandemic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u204	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. For an answer, the Minister of Health Mr. Ananiev. Please, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u205	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The emergency epidemic situation related to the spread of COVID-19 has put the health system under serious stress with a view to the need to quickly introduce the necessary precautions for the staff of medical institutions, to create adequate preparedness in this situation as well. In order to provide financial compensation for medical and non-medical first-line personnel directly engaged in activities related to diagnosis, monitoring and treatment of patients with proven coronavirus and accommodated for hospital treatment, with funds from the Operational Programme of Human Resources Development from March began to pay additional remuneration. According to the latest data for March 2020, additional remuneration of 1000 BGN. They have received a total of 3578 persons in total of 5 million. 297 thousand. 702 BGN, including personal insurance, income tax and employer's contributions, including 1718 medical and non-medical personnel from 37 medical establishments across the country of 2 million. 556 thousand. BGN 196. and 1860 persons, employees of regional health inspections, the National Centre for Infectious and Parasitic Diseases, the Emergency Medical Centres of 2 million. 741 thousand. BGN 506. On 11 May, a total of 6626 persons in total of 9 million received additional remuneration for April 2020. 454 thousand. 607 BGN, including 3950 medical and non-medical personnel from 59 medical establishments throughout the country of 5 million. 510,000. 140 leva. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. 904 thousand. 467 leva. In the implementation of the project are paid additional salaries of medical and non-medical personnel directly involved in monitoring, diagnosis and treatment activities for patients with proven coronavirus placed for hospital treatment. To this end, clear, objective, measurable criteria are described on the basis of which to determine the number of persons in the medical institutions who should receive additional remuneration of 1000 BGN. For the other health professionals, doctors, health care professionals, dentists and pharmacists who are not included as possible recipients of additional payments, opportunities were created for all of them to receive remuneration, remuneration for this period of the epidemic situation, regardless of reduced reception and temporary cessation of certain activities on the basis of a financing mechanism under adverse working conditions. The abolition of restrictions and the restoration of reception and scheduled medical and operational activities in hospitals, as well as medical activities in outpatient care, will result in an increase in the volume of medical activities, which will also reflect on the amount of remuneration received by medical professionals. As regards improving the working conditions, the Ministry of Health has provided the purchase of medical equipment to increase the capacity of hospital care facilities, to treat patients with COVID-19, modern laboratory equipment and tests, as well as personal protective equipment for medical and non-medical personnel. The healthcare establishments are provided with the necessary personal protective equipment and a corresponding reserve has been formed in regional health inspections. A large part of the funds received as donations and in accordance with the National Assembly Decision of 6 April 2020 are also targeted at regional health inspections to provide tests for the diagnosis of COVID-19 in accordance with the needs of individual regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u206	Thank you, dear Minister. Two supplementary questions. Mr. Taskov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u207	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I allow myself to take the opportunity of a supplementary issue relating to the activity of infectious clinics in the territory of the country and the full use of the resources of these clinics, fully so as not to literally block all health activities during a possible and possible re-viral infection, because we all know that during this epidemic situation we actually blocked the planning activities in hospitals, the planned health of the Bulgarians in general. What is being done in this part of the work related precisely to the potential of the activity in question? In the course of your reply, I just received the information, Mr. Minister, just now the Ministry of Health literally refused funding to the colleagues who were on duty 24/7 on the Danube Bridge, and these are colleagues from the Complex Oncological Centre Ruse. I think it just doesn't suit us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u208	Thank you, dear Mr. Taskov. Mr. Secretary for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u209	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Dr. Taskov! Infectious wards were given special attention to the management of the Ministry of Health and all measures related to providing equipment, providing protective equipment were the first ones to be provided because they really are on the front line and are closest to the sick. We are well aware that our infectious wards need to improve the conditions in which medical and non-medical personnel work both with the necessary equipment, equipment, protective equipment, masks, clothing and so on. At the moment, you know that the European Commission is planning to allocate a very serious resource to the Member States of the European Union to help combat COVID-19. Our management considered that one of the most important programs with which we can allocate funds to the Bulgarian healthcare sector are the infectious wards. We are currently working and by Wednesday next week we will present to our project management body this project, which we are currently developing, and we will defend it to the European Commission. Of the extra money that will be provided free of charge to our country, one of the priorities is healthcare, which we are very, very pleased with. Also another project, because this topic is also painful and has been placed many times, it is psychiatric hospitals, psychiatric wards, the problem with psychiatric institutions in the country at all. This is the second project that we are working on at the moment and I am sure we will be able to protect it. These are two directions in which we really need to improve the conditions and not only the conditions, but also to improve the organisation and functioning of these activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u210	Thank you, dear Minister. For consideration, please, Mr. Timchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u211	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I had the right to ask a second supplementary question, but I will miss this because the problem of the CIVID-viral infection has affected the health insurance systems in the world, of course, and has also put the health insurance system in Bulgaria to the test. The problems were highlighted during the time of the COVID-viral epidemiological situation. There have been chronic problems in the healthcare system in Bulgaria, which we have often talked about in this Chamber, and beyond this epidemiological situation. Problems go beyond time and questions go beyond the time allowed within a question. That is why the desire of 62 MPs from the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party is to grow into a debate here in this Chamber, such a major and hot issue related to the future health system in Bulgaria. The problems are from both organizational and personnel and financial plans. Therefore, Madam President, we have submitted 62 signatures to the Court of Justice, which are necessary to pass our inquiry into a debate in plenary. [[Passing to the Chair a signature folder.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u212	Debate! Thank you. In connection with a previous inquiry by letter No 054-0039, dated 5 June 2020, submitted at 13.57 p.m., there was a request for debate on questioning, No 954-05-21, of 15 May 2020, and a draft decision on the inquiry by the National Representatives Georgi Yordanov, Georgi Mihailov, Ilian Timchev, Desislav Taskov, Valentina Naydenova, Ivan Ibrishimov and Anna Slavova to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on the Strategy for improving the working conditions and financial compensation for the Bulgarian medics. The proposal and the draft decision are signed by 62 MPs. The requirement set out in Article 1 shall be fulfilled. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure more than one fifth of the Members of the National Assembly shall make a proposal to hold a debate on the questioning. On the basis of art. 105, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I schedule the debates on the inquiry and voting of the draft decision for the next meeting, designated for parliamentary control. Let's move on to the next question. He is from the National Representative Violeta Zheleva on the amount of the basic monthly remuneration of medical professionals in health care, employed in children's and school health care, fulfilling the terms of the collective contract in the field of health care. Here you go, Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u213	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, my question relates to the fact that you are signing collective agreements, but subsequently they remain in the.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Dear Minister, in 2018, an active collective employment contract was signed in the...................................................................................................... By provision of art. 47, para. 2 of the same contract was agreed a minimum amount of 900 BGN. on a basic monthly salary of medical professionals in health care, including those employed in children's and school education. A year and a half later than the operation of this contract in some municipalities of Haskovo region, including the district town, so the agreed minimum wage amount has not been reached. I ask the question of Haskovo district as a representative from this region, but I suppose this is also true for many other municipalities in the country. So my question to you is: where do you see the reasons for failing to comply with the terms of the collective contract? What do you think is the reality of the agreed minimum wage to be reached before the collective employment contract expires, and what will be done about it? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u214	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jeleva. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u215	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Zheleva, the Ministry of Health is a party to the collective work contract in the.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The collective contract of employment in the is in force from the date of signature, namely 8 November 2018, and is valid for a period of two years. Chapter four, Section II "Main wages', by CDCs in the...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The minimum basic salaries provided for staff employed in health and health institutions, which are budgetary organisations, for health care professionals, including nurses, are BGN 900. Those provisions may serve as a basis for negotiating at the level of an undertaking, but not directly applied due to the lack of direct effect of a CTD at industry level. In the event that at the level of an undertaking the minimum amounts of initial basic monthly salaries by category of the company are agreed, the same shall not be lower than those provided for in the CTA in the The funding of the activities carried out by medical professionals working in the health offices, in state and municipal schools, in municipal and state kindergartens, kindergartens, children's kitchens is provided as a state delegated activity within the general budget of the children's establishment or school. Of course, municipalities can also participate in funding by their own means. The standards for the financing of state-sponsored activities in a health function shall be updated annually in accordance with the income policy in the budgetary sphere and other regulations. According to information from the Ministry of Health on 1 January 2020, the basic salary of medical professionals in nurseries in 36 municipalities on the territory of the country has reached the agreed minimum amount according to the CDC. In 106 municipalities the amount of basic monthly wages is between 650 and 890 BGN. Regarding the size of the basic salary of medical professionals in healthcare in 44 municipalities on the territory of the country is over 900 BGN and in 219 municipalities the amount of the basic monthly remuneration is in a range from 650 to 886 BGN. The Ministry of Health evaluates the responsible work of medical professionals in healthcare occupied in children's and school healthcare, but the collective contract does not define control functions by the Ministry of Health in relation to the specific implementation of the act. I am confident that municipalities in Bulgaria, including Haskovo Municipality, will do what is necessary to enable workers in children's and school health to receive adequate remuneration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u216	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mrs. Jeleva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u217	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, I understand from your reply that you are signing a collective contract only with the wish to reach the minimum wage specified in this contract, and you are not a party. And you're just a country and you have no role, because, you see, standards are set by the Ministry of Finance. Maybe that's what you meant?! On the basis of the Public Finance Act and, in particular, art. 71 in the framework of the budgetary procedure, the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Minister of Finance, shall adopt standards for the activities delegated by the State. But in para. Art. 3 of art. 71 standards for the activities delegated by the State are developed jointly with the Minister and the National Association of Municipalities, together with the Minister of Finance, which goes to say that you are a country that offers updated state standards for the delegation of state activity each year. However, this is not happening. I will give you one specific example of insufficient state standard for health offices according to art. 5 of Regulation No 3. The state standard for a child is BGN 1175. for a year, which means that, subject to the regulatory framework, the State will allocate 10 thousand. 500 leva. for one nurse a year or 875 leva. From this point on, it is clear that this standard, that this basic salary, the minimum wage, which is laid down in the collective contract, will not be achieved. Then we go to the question: why is this collective contract signed? Why do medical professionals remain lied to for another year in school and health care? The other thing is: You say that there are only 36 municipalities with such monthly remuneration. Well, that's a shame! To sign a National collective contract and finally only 36 municipalities to secure it?! Here's my appeal. There is a difficulty on the part of the municipalities. Yes, in some municipalities they finance and come to this monthly remuneration of 900 BGN, but in a very large part of the municipalities they cannot finance. Every year in the opinion of the National Association of Municipalities this is noted and the standards for another year have not been updated and you are transferring responsibility to the mayors. I don't think that's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u218	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jeleva. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u219	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Zheleva, last year I proposed to increase the standard of these activities delegated by the state. This year, with even greater courage, I would say that I will, as I have had talks in the Cabinet with the Prime Minister and the state has the will to support these activities next year. We are currently in a budget procedure. We're making the draft budget for next year. We're also doing the draft standards for next year. I really hope we can get to these levels. However, what I want to say and what I said in my initial statement is that it is, after all, a collective employment contract signed by three countries. One of the parties is the employer. There is no way to eliminate the possibilities of municipalities and they can help, as they did in a number of other municipalities.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u220	If there's a chance.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u221	Of course, if there is an opportunity, but there must be priorities, and children are our priority. I'm sure of it! But anyway, you will follow the procedure for the development of the Draft Budget and you will see my desire and the desire of the Cabinet to help and reach these salaries to the levels provided for in the CDC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u222	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the next question by the National Representative Georgi Mihailov and the National Representative Violeta Jeleva regarding the volume of reimbursed medicines by the National Health Insurance Fund. Here you go, Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u223	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, we are asking an up-to-date question to you a few days ago and it concerns signals that we are receiving from all over the country to change the amount of reimbursement of individual medicines by the National Health Insurance Fund. The citizens are forced to pay higher amounts. So the rate of reimbursing some medications is randomly reduced. This applies, however outrageous, to transplanted patients, and to their immunosuppressive therapy, which is extremely long-term. What is your attitude to this problem, moreover, that this is happening in a period of emergency when this period for such patients is extremely severe? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u224	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jeleva. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u225	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Mrs. Zheleva, Dear Professor Mihailov! In our country, the National Council of Prices and Reimbursement of Medicinal Products is the competent authority that validates and registers the prices of medicinal products Medicinal products containing the same active substance under the international non-proprietary name (INN) are grouped by drug form, the value of a defined daily dose or therapeutic course or concentration or volume for the different INN medicinal products and the drug formulation is calculated and the lowest reference value for all medicinal products in the group is determined. The level of pay by the NHIF of medicinal products grouped according to the INN and drug form included in the Positive Drug List is determined as a percentage, with the NHIF paying 100, 75 and up to 50% of the lowest value for the defined daily dose of medicinal products belonging to the international non-proprietary name grouped by drug form or grouped by chemical subset of the anatomo-therapeutic classification. When changing the reference value in the relevant group of medicinal products, which may be due to the inclusion of a new product, a change in the price or exclusion of a medicinal product, the value paid by the NHIF for that group may be reduced or increased respectively. This also leads to a change in the payment by the patient, with this additional payment representing the difference between the price of the medicinal product and the value paid by the National Health Insurance Fund. It is apparent from the foregoing that for medicinal products for chronic diseases leading to severe life or disability and with a level of payment of 100% requiring continued treatment, in each INN group is provided a medicinal product that is fully paid by the NHIF, as a result of the principle of internal referencing for other medicinal products, additional payment is required by the patient. In particular, with regard to the medicinal products you have received for the treatment of transplanted patients under extra-hospital care, Annex No 1 to the Positive Drug List currently includes 18 such medicinal products that are paying 100 per 100, given that they are intended for the treatment of chronic diseases leading to severe quality of life or disability and requiring long-term treatment. I note that in 2020, the National Council on Prices and Reimbursement did not change or decrease the level of payment of medicinal products included in Annex No 1 to the Positive Drug List, such as for medicinal products intended for the treatment of transplanted patients, their level of payment has not been altered by their inclusion in the Positive Drug List since 2011. To conclude, I would like to stress that the medical professional's commitment to the disease profile is based on the evaluation of the patient's current condition to prescribe therapy for the specific diagnosis according to the medicinal products available in the Positive Drug List. It is the responsibility of the physician, in accordance with the current regulations, for prescribing medicinal products, to inform the health insured person whether the medicinal product is paid in full or in part by the NHIF, and whether there are medicinal products with the same international non-proprietary name with a lower price, respectively fully paid by the NHIF. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u226	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Jeleva, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u227	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, in much of your reply you have quoted to us how the price of some of the medicines is determined, the mechanism for including the medicines in the Positive List, the change of reference values and so on. Maybe you misunderstood me, so I'll repeat it clearly and specifically. Transplant patients are paying for their meds! One of the most important medications that they should take every day and support the life of our transplantees has been paid for several days. I'll tell you right now from the stands I can't, then, if you want, I'll introduce you, and I have a receipt of people who bought it at a price of 20 BGN. So far, he's cost 68 leva. And they haven't paid anything so far. All medicines are free of charge for the transplanted so say the people who turned to me, and now pay 20 BGN, which for them are an awful lot, because they have to accept additional ones, and some have very low incomes. I think you understand me this time. Then I will tell you specifically about the signal, because we can't every day talk that health is the most valuable thing for people, all the more so that these patients are in an extremely difficult situation. About other transplant problems, we have not once or twice spoken in plenary. So, please, be more responsible about this signal. I just need to make it clear to us: what put you in a state of emergency to change the price of this drug? If you can't answer me now because you don't know exactly who you're talking about, I'll fill in after your speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u228	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jeleva. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u229	I'm gonna have to ask you, Mrs. Jeleva, to give me the specific case so I can check it out. But I would like to repeat again that the level of pay on the part of the NHIF has not been changed since 2011. If there is such a case, give it to me - I will check it immediately and I will inform you personally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u230	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Krastina Taskova on the results of the check regarding the different payment by the NHIF of the same medicinal product to state and private hospitals. Here you go, Mrs. Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u231	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Dear Minister, we are all still remembering in January this year the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund has been briefed, apart from the MPs, you and the whole society, that there is a practice of paying by the NHIF at different prices of the same medicinal product to different hospitals. It was about a drug that was paid seven times higher at a private hospital than a state hospital. We all remember you ordered an inspection. In the situation created, there was no opportunity to ask my question.. It is from the beginning of March. My question to you is: what are the results of this check? Have there been regulatory gaps and a lack of ability on the part of the Cashier to control payments? If there are losses, what are they about the budget in relation to the higher payment of medicinal products to private hospitals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u232	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u233	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Ms. Taskova, for the purpose of carrying out an analysis and identification of practices published in the public domain by letter No 61-00-7 of 16 January 2020, has been ordered by the National Council for the Prices and Reimbursement of Medicinal Products and the Drug Executive Agency to carry out a verification of wholesalers, distribution medicinal products. There is also self-secution by the Board to carry out an inspection. By the Ministry of Health, the Council has been ordered to carry out a verification of wholesale medicinal products for the treatment of oncological and oncological medicinal products on an attached list of 317 products concerning supply prices of medicinal products to hospital care establishments, on the attached list................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... To this end, a committee has been appointed by the President of the National Council for Prices and Reimbursement of Medicinal Products, which has carried out the following: Wholesalers of medicinal products have been examined for the medicinal products supplied by them to the healthcare establishments by the attached list, which the NHIF pays outside the value of the clinical pathways for the treatment of cancer and oncohematological diseases for the period 1 January 31 December 2019. Wholesalers covered by the verification are identified on the basis of references requested by the Council by the medical institutions and verification of the contracts published by the Public Procurement Agency for the supply of medicinal products to medicinal products, of which one producer, 31 wholesale companies for medicinal products, of which one on the territory of the city of Varna, four on the territory of Plovdiv and 26 on the territory of the city of Sofia, and two companies which are not wholesalers. Of these, 14 have concluded a contract under the Public Procurement Act or have supplied a medicinal product with an international non-proprietary name Pemetrexed to medical establishments or other wholesalers. At the same time, a remote check of the same traders was carried out in parallel by the National Revenue Agency. When processing the information received in the course of the checks, it was found that no breach of the established prices of medicinal products with an international non-proprietary name Pemetrexed was found when they were sold by wholesalers with medicinal products. No excess of a package value calculated on the basis of a reference value set out in the Positive Drug List of BGN 1063,03 has also been found. with VAT included. Alongside this, the media space-based information about large variations in the value at which medical establishments receive and claim payment to the NHIF medicinal products with INN Pemterexed is confirmed by the invoices provided by traders. Weaknesses are also found in the following guidelines: 1. Invoices have been issued from wholesalers to medical establishments or other wholesalers in which the complete and accurate name of the medicinal product has not been entered. This makes it difficult to verify and analyse the information submitted. 2. Invoices with deleted quantity, unit price and value were provided. 3. Errors were found in the NHIF report in cross-checks of the invoices provided and references were found in the NHIF report. A medicinal product was delivered and invoiced to one marketing authorisation holder and a medicinal product was reported to the NHIF of another holder. 4. Deficit and inaccuracies have been identified, as well as a discrepancy in the information submitted by the NHIF, health institutions and wholesalers, in the documents provided and references for which additional information has been requested from the companies examined. In accordance with the orders of the Governor of the NHIF in the period 16 January 2020, NHIF employees also carried out checks. According to NHIF data, controls of the purchase and payment procedure of the medicinal product INN Pemetrexed were carried out during the checks. The supply and purchase of the medicinal product has been found to be on the basis of a contract in force between the medical establishment and the holder of a wholesale marketing authorisation for medicinal products. The review of the available documentation found that the price of a single final packaging, which the medical establishment paid to the wholesaler, is BGN 1063,03. with VAT. In the case of checks carried out under the statutory control powers of the NHIF, no infringements have been detected. The vials were purchased at a price corresponding to the maximum limit price paid by the NHIF, namely the price I just said. After receipt of all the documentation requested in the course of the checks and subsequent systematization, an in-depth analysis shall be carried out. As a result, the Minister of Health proposed to the Minister of Finance that private hospitals should also be included in the scope of the Public Procurement Act so as to ensure competition and transparency in the pricing of medicinal products. A letter has been received from the Public Procurement Agency showing that the Agency supports the proposal. She has prepared a change in the Public Procurement Act and has provided them to the Ministry of Finance, which is an importer in the Council of Ministers. In addition, the Ministry of Health publishes on its website a draft implementing rule proposing to introduce a condition for the NHIF to pay for medicinal products the lowest value between those agreed in the framework agreements concluded by the Minister of Health as a central purchasing body in the sector................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... These are medicines used in hospital medical care, which are paid by the NHIF outside the value of medical services rendered. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Just a little while longer, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u234	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u235	At present, the NHIF is paying the medical aid contractors medicinal products outside the value of the medical services provided the price at which the healthcare establishments concerned purchase them. This value does not exceed the one specified in the Positive Drug List. However, treatment establishments form different prices, resulting in different payments of the same medicinal products. That is why our proposals are with a view to overcoming this difference. There are specific mechanisms to be outlined for the above idea to be put into practice. I am confident that the joint efforts of all actors in the health system, as well as all public authorities, will contribute to the creation of mechanisms for the payment of medicinal products, which do not give rise to doubts of opaqueness or inequality in the spending of the NHIF funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u236	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Taskov, will there be a line? No. And the last question remained by the National Representative Georgi Mihailov regarding the construction of the National Children's Hospital. Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u237	Thank you, Madam President. Before we begin with the honourable Minister the construction of our debate I would like to congratulate you on your tolerant attitude in discussing important topics. This was transferred from Minister Valchev to Minister Ananiev. He just spoke for more than eight minutes at a limit of three minutes. I hope that such an important question, albeit the last, and exhausted all of you on Friday, will leave us with both he and I to develop our questions and answers, and further pointing questions, as this question concerns the entire nation of the National Children's Hospital.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u238	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u239	I will not go into many details, Minister, as you are extremely well aware, even to pain in this matter. You know that thanks to the parliamentary group of BSP this is the very truth, a year and a half ago a group of pediatricians were invited to present to the finance minister, to the entire management of parliament and to you including their desire to rebuild the construction of the National Children's Hospital. Since then, however, many events have happened that did not lead to a useful move and ultimately to numerous protests led by citizens and by professionals and specialists in the field of construction and architecture. I will allow myself here, I know that you know them, but for our viewers, to read the main arguments of the Chamber of Architects, which they have pointed out to you and to the Prime Minister that the current project, which has been defended, I do not know if by you, but has been persistently defended, there is no way and should not be implemented. First of all: lack of analysis for the needs of children's healthcare at the moment; research and assessment of appropriate terrain; professional and public discussion in the real sense of this word; serious deficiencies in function; lack of quality requirements for installations in the future building; requirements for the quality of input materials; choice of contractor according to the method of complete engineering, which was contested by all specialists; formation of the cost of construction; active urban solution for Sofia, and in this situation a construction that is illegal for the city; concepts and philosophy of the construction, which was started 40 years ago under radically changed demographic conditions in Bulgaria; modern requirements for pediatric assistance; constructive heights. I don't want to go into details, Mr. Minister, because they've been deployed many times before you, I'm not going to go into a room height of three-four meters, the main installations, heating, ventilation, I'm not going to talk about emergency elevators. I was very surprised, in the pleasant sense of this word, however, that in the end the decision of the management of the state was this construction to not call it in one word, which I have called here before you, to be liquidated and to start building a National Children's Hospital. However, I ask myself this question, and it is this question that I ask you: why did we have to lose a year and a half in front of the entire nation, in front of our mothers, in front of our children, to start now from the cat, as one writer once said: minus 273 degrees Fahrenheit? We're going to form a new hole, call it the simplest, and we're going to have to look for a new design, hopefully there won't be the same design as it was 40 years ago, a new construction, with a new concept, a new philosophy, and we'll get on an unknown day, an unknown year, and an unknown hour to a legend from the entire nation project. I hope neither you nor anyone in this room contests the importance of the National Children's Hospital. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u240	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u241	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mihailov, before reading what I have prepared to tell you, I want to tell you at this moment and before you that I continue to believe that what has been done by our ancestors and is completed in 1992, and not 40 years ago the design has started, it is possible that it is the basis of the modern children's hospital. But because of the public discontent, and not so many people, the prime minister decided what you said "in the framework of the contract concluded with the contractor" to destroy the building and make a brand new one. Now let me tell you what I have prepared. The Ministry of Health has always taken into account the strategic importance and social importance of the construction of the National Multiprofile Children's Hospital, given which all actions and decisions are related to the implementation of this strategic task. The Ministry of Health concluded a contract RD-11-135 on 2 April 2020 with the awarded after a public contract for Contractor DHPA Children's Health. The contract is concluded in accordance with the time limits laid down in the Public Procurement Act. We passed, Professor Mihailov, through the entire procedure to, including, a judgment. Even the complaints have not been dealt with in substance either by the KPC or by you. All institutions considered that this building could be made to look really like a modern, modern and effective hospital for the health of children. On 2 June 2020, a meeting was held at the Ministry of Health between representatives of the Ministry of Health, representatives of the National Citizens' Initiative for a Real Children's Hospital, representatives of the contractor of the contract for the construction of the National Multiprofile Children's Hospital and representatives of the medical and design community. The aim of the meeting was to discuss all points of view in order to define a principled plan of action to ensure the construction of a modern National Multiprofile Children's Hospital, meeting all modern standards in the field of children's health and hospital design. At the meeting, all parties detailed their positions and agreed in principle to establish a public council and a management team with the participation of representatives of the citizens' initiative, professional organisations and experts. The purpose of the public council is to get acquainted with the needs analysis carried out by the Ministry of Health on the basis of which the technical assignment of the public procurement is prepared, as well as to participate in conceptual decisions related to the construction of the future children's hospital. The Parties agreed that, if necessary, the health analysis carried out by the Ministry of Health would be upgraded. An agreement was also reached for further consideration of the functional and technical assignment of the children's hospital and, if necessary, to supplement, detailed or changed. The aim of the agreements reached is to ensure maximum publicity and transparency of the process of creating the future children's hospital, taking into account the requirements of both the experts, doctors, medical specialists, architects, engineers and parents. The public council will be set up after all the countries involved in the initiative broadcast their representatives, but no later than the end of June. In principle, it was agreed that a management team should also be appointed to the public council to coordinate the decision-making process and the preparation of final materials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u242	Thank you, dear Minister. For a cue, Mr. Mihailov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u243	Dear Madam President, thank you once again for your true professional and collegiate tolerance in discussing these issues. Dear Minister, my clinic, the Clinic of Children's Oncohematology, which then became the National Hospital of Children's Oncology and Transplantation Center, was first moved to Bulgaria because of the construction. I know the history of this building, as perhaps few people in Bulgaria, so I would not like, with all due respect to you, to enter into disputes about when the first dig was made, how slow the start of the construction was, how disgracefully this construction was abandoned in the face of the entire nation and in the face of all pediatricians. These are very sad things about my professional life because he's already going to his last third almost, and this hospital hasn't existed for 30 years, 30 years. And I don't want to argue with you because I see that you have genuine conviction. The bad news is that I, as a professional and the people who have stood up and managed to influence the public process, as you have said at the moment, have managed to convince the Council of Ministers that what was being proposed is not going to happen and be effective. I can get into details, Mr. Minister, I can tell you what the building height of the rooms should be in order to make the so-called OAK installation. I can tell you other details of this serious analysis, which is presented, but given that so many years have been lost, you are a father, and you know how important complex care for Bulgarian children is, there will be no children with elementary diseases in this hospital. There will be concentrated the toughest child contingent in Bulgaria, which, however, in modern conditions, Mr. Minister, has the opportunity to be seriously influenced positively and to return to the hands of his parents, for the happiness of our nation. Therefore, with all my heart, I wish you success, but I really ask you, when this calendar year expires, to return to this topic again and to see if something has really moved forward, as the last year and a half we have been moving in a Circulus vicious vicisus, doctors call it a vicious circle, and now a decision has been made that I admire, but it must be fulfilled. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u244	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u245	Dear Professor Mihailov, I am glad that we both have a huge desire for this hospital to really become a reality and to be what is needed for our children. The fact that we lost a year and several months was not because there were some problems related to the construction, but also purely administrative, documentary things that we had to do with the City and so on. At the same time, we did a very serious investigation, which showed that the building is fit and meets the earthquake requirements that one such children's building must meet. Never mind, we're not going back. I don't like going back. I mean, we haven't wasted it and wasted that time, because all the conclusions that have been drawn from the investigation have shown that this building can be made so that it meets the European standards that we have to apply. What is important from now on is that we really all unite our will and desire, of course, and capacity in the relevant areas, and that we help make it happen as quickly as possible. We're certainly not having this conversation next year. We're going to be leading him this year because we're going into procedure and possibly in a few months, not to say exactly how much, the demolition of the building will begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-05.u246	Thank you, dear Minister. This was the last question to Minister Ananiev "the Minister of Health," and the last question of today's parliamentary control. We're done for the day. The next regular plenary session shall be on 10 June 2020, Wednesday, at 9.00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
