ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Program for the work of the National Assembly for 30 September "October 2, 2020: "1." New discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, adopted by the National Assembly on 3 September 2020, returned for a new discussion with Decree No 184 of 15 September 2020 of the President of the Republic under art. 101 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. 2. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 14 August 2020 3. Draft Law on the ratification of the 2008 Amendments to the Convention on the International Organisation for Mobile Satellite Telecommunications approved at the 20th Session of the General Assembly. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 28 July 2020 4. Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement on Contribution between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank with regard to the Pan-European Guarantee Fund in response to COVID-19 and the Guarantee Agreement on First Request between the original guarantors and the successor guarantors and the European Investment Bank, signed by the Bulgarian side on 9 July 2020 in Sofia and by the European Investment Bank on 24 August 2020 in Luxembourg. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 11 September 2020 By decision of the Conference of Presidents, we shall include an additional item under No 5. It's five o'clock. Projects of decisions on changes to Standing Committees. Importer: Cornellia Ninova, 29 September 2020 and 30 September 2020, point 1 for Thursday, 1 October 2020. 6. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Labour Code. Importers - Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs, 3 June 2020; Julian Angelov and a group of MPs, 30 July 2020; the Council of Ministers, 3 August 2020, item 2 for Thursday, 1 October 2020. 7. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Weapons, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles. Importers suppose Manoil Manev and a group of MPs, 3 September 2020, item 3rd for Thursday, 1 October 2020. 8. Draft law on ratification of the Agreement on the termination of bilateral investment contracts between the Member States of the European Union. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 3 September 2020, item 4 for Thursday, 1 October 2020. 9. A bill for ratifying the Statute of the International Network for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and the Statute of the Association of European Organizations for Promotion of Trade. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 11 September 2020, item 5th for Thursday, 1 October. 10. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. Importers - Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs, 4 May 2020; the Council of Ministers, 30 July 2020, item 1 for Friday, 2 October 2020. 11. Parliamentary control. Please vote on the project so presented. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] First we vote on the agenda, fellow Members. [[Replication by National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov.]] We put out a vote on the agenda, then I'll give you a procedure. [[Loud noise.]] We vote on the agenda, and then I'll give you a procedure if there's anything you need to move. Please vote. Vote 198 MPs: 127, against 54, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! I propose that item seven of the agenda be removed from consideration in this House, and I will be motivated by why. Point seven, unfortunately, shows a new approach to making legislation by GERB. Until now, laws have been made against Bulgarian citizens, now they are also being made against the institutions. Point seven is an extremely vivid and fracking example of how laws are spent which the ministries themselves do not want to be adopted. One ministry says it does not want this law and cannot apply it; the other ministry to which responsibilities are transferred also says that this law cannot be implemented and must not be implemented. Please remove this item from the agenda and be voted on, because otherwise a lot of interests will be hurt, and I suspect even more that there is serious lobbying behind it. It is very likely that there will be a serious blow to the arms industry, as the institutions are not ready to implement this law to date and do not wish to implement it. I mean, this thing, after it's voted out, after it's cleaned up, then get in the room and look at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Manev, reverse procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! A reverse opinion. I suspect, despise, suspect these are words that speak nothing. The truth is: we have a bill, we have opinions from the ministries. If you have not seen the opinions, read them, Mr. Ivanov. We're talking about a bill where I don't know what lobbying is about, but I'm going to admit from this tribune that there's lobbying. There is lobbying for all those Bulgarian citizens who keep the tradition of Bulgarian weapons and who have problems with registrations of historical weapons until 1900. These are all those Bulgarian citizens that you see during reenactments, during all the big holidays that we all actually like to clap on here, invite them, call them. In this bill, we solve one of their big problems. As for what my colleague is proposing. Let this law enter the Chamber and let each of you have the right to say what you have to say. Colleagues will decide who's prepared, who's lying, who's not lying, and so on. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u5	Thank you, Mr. Manev. I will put Mr. Ivanov's proposal to the vote, and my colleagues will vote on whether or not the point remains. I put to the vote Mr. Ivanov's proposal seventh point: First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Weapons, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles submitted by Manoil Manev and a group of MPs on 3 September 2020, which will be third for Thursday, 1 October 2020, to be removed from the Programme. This is Mr. Ivanov's proposal. Vote 202 MPs: for 80, against 111, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. Draft and draft resolutions from 23 to 29 September 2020: Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Physical Education and Sports. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Children, Youth and Sports is the lead. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Draft Law on the ratification of the International Development Association's Constitutional Treaty of 24 September 1960. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft Law amending the Law on the Administrative and Territorial Device of Bulgaria. Importers "Julian Angelov" and a group of MPs. There's a distribution coming up. Draft decision on a change in the composition of the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft decision on a change in the composition of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. Draft decision on a change in the composition of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft decision on a change in the composition of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Draft decision on a change in the composition of the Defence Committee. Draft decision on a change in the composition of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Draft decision on a change in the composition of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. All these draft decisions have been proposed by Mrs Cornelia Ninova. We continue with the messages: On the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on 29 September 2020 received Decree No 199 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria under art. 101 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria with which the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code was adopted by the National Assembly on 17 September 2020. It is entrusted to the leading Committee on Legal Affairs to report to the MPs the President's statement and the reasons for it. Several applications were received to the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria and to the Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria. Application by Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov "Member of the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria" on the basis of art. 15, para. 3 in connection with para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: Mrs. President of the National Assembly, Madam President of the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria. I hereby inform you that I am leaving the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria. I declare myself a Member of the National Assembly who is not a member of a parliamentary group. My reasons for this decision are insurmountable value differences related to the policy, the way of management, decision making and the relationship with others in the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Respectfully, Dimitar Stoyanov. An application from Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov to the Chairman of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria and to the Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria. 15, para. 3 in connection with para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: Mrs. President of the National Assembly, Madam President of the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria. I hereby inform you that I am leaving the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. I declare myself a non-party MP who is not a member of a parliamentary group. My reasons for this decision are insurmountable value differences related to the way of management, decision-making, relationships and others in the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Respectfully: Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov. An application by Georgi Dimitrov Andreev from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. The President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Chairman of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. 15, para. 3 in connection with para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: Mrs. President of the National Assembly, Madam President of the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria. I hereby inform you that I am leaving the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. I declare myself a non-party MP who is not a member of a parliamentary group. My reasons for this decision are insurmountable value differences related to the way of management, decision making, relationships and others in the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Respectfully: Georgi Dimitrov Andreev. An application from Lalo Georgiev Kirilov to the Chairman of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria and to the Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria. 15, para. 3 in connection with para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: Mrs. President of the National Assembly, Madam President of the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria. I hereby inform you that I am leaving the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. I declare myself a non-party MP who is not a member of a parliamentary group. My reasons for this decision are insurmountable value differences related to the way of management, decision-making, relationships and others in the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Respectfully: Lalo Georgiev Kirilov. Application by Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov.. MP from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria...................................................................................................................... to the............................................................................................................................ 15, para. 3 in connection with para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: Mrs. President of the National Assembly, Madam President of the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria. I hereby inform you that I am leaving the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. I declare myself a non-party MP who is not a member of a parliamentary group. My reasons for this decision are insurmountable value differences related to the policy, the way of management, decision making, relationships and others in the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Respectfully, Valerie Jablyanov. Application by Krasimir Hristov Iankov, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the BSP for Bulgaria, to the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria and to the Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of the BSP for Bulgaria. 15, para. 3 in connection with para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: Mrs. President of the National Assembly, Madam President of the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria. I hereby inform you that I am leaving the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. I declare myself a non-party MP who is not a member of a parliamentary group. My reasons for this decision are insurmountable value differences related to the way of management, decision-making, relationships and others in the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Respectfully: Krassimir Yankov, Member of the National Assembly. [[Reply from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.]] Mr. Zablyanov, let me finish the messages and I'll give you a procedure. In connection with the announcement in plenary of the application for exit of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 20, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Vice-Presidents of Standing Committees shall be released early upon termination of their membership in the parliamentary group from whose quota they are elected. On this basis Mr. Zablyanov was released as Vice-President of the Foreign Policy Committee. In accordance with art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly shall be announced without discussing and voting. An updated programme for the audit work of the Court of Auditors for 2020. The programme was submitted by letter No 024-00-11 from the President of the Court of Auditors. The material is provided to the Committee on Budget and Finance and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. And the last communication: a Report of the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period August 28, 29 September 2020 and Protocol No 31 of the meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund, held on 24 September 2020, was received in the National Assembly. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report and the Protocol were sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Mr. Zablyanov, please come in for a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u6	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, comrades from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Madam President, I would like to correct some of your application. I do not know how it happened, but to correct you and tell you that I am not a non-Party MP, but I declare myself an independent MP who is not a member of a parliamentary group. Otherwise, my party affiliation is very clear. As for the action we have taken with my comrades, I want to tell you that it is motivated by the desire to preserve the essence, the impulse, the deep meaning of the left political idea. All this was taken from us in the group led by Mrs. Ninova. We declare ourselves independent MPs, we remain co-conspirators. We are opposed to the current government and to the current majority-seeking majority-convinced opposition, and we will remain so with all our parliamentary and extra-parliamentary political actions. [[(Replication by BSP for Bulgaria]] [[(BSP's lines for Bulgaria: "In the way we conduct it!" In the manner of conduct!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u7	To me, Mr. Zablyanov, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u8	Yeah, the way you run it. I'm done! In our actions we will validate parliamentaryism and progressive socialist ideas. I thank the comrades of the parliamentary group for our work so far, as I believe that we have good political achievements, appropriate parliamentary initiatives, and every joint activity and life together must be assessed by dignity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u9	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. [[Reply by National Representative Cornelia Ninova.]] Here you are, Mrs. Nino. Is this how you conduct yourself?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u10	No, it's a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u11	Please come in for an affidavit. [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]] Quiet, please! Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u12	Dear Members of the National Assembly, dear Bulgarian citizens! Yesterday, surprisingly, we found out about a meeting of the Prime Minister with the US company Lokheed Martin and released an official press release for talks about the purchase of eight new F-16 aircraft. [[GERB screams]] Moreover, it is clear from the communication that the Ministry of Defence has already released letters-orders related to the study of the possibilities for acquiring eight more planes F-16 Block-70, of three new coordinate radars, support of the Operations Centre for Air sovereignty, and other high-tech equipment in the context of the projects for modernization of the armed forces of Bulgaria. This information raises many questions that we insist today to invite the Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence to come to parliament and to answer not only the MPs, but the Bulgarian society: what parameters of the deal are we talking about? When is it scheduled to start? At what value and for what time? Does the budget for 2021 provide funds for the financing of this transaction? We want to ask the Prime Minister: is that what the five billion loan from last week is for? Because with this new 5 billion loan, the debt left to us by the governments of Borisov has already exceeded 30 billion. lv. Dear MPs and Bulgarian citizens, we all know that an unprecedented economic and social crisis is coming. [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]] We all know the facts of recent months, announced by the National Statistical Institute, i.e. official and state: investments, exports and imports of the state are falling, prices are rising and incomes are not! That means impoverishment! [[(Strong noise and shouts from GERB and OP:]] The government has no plan to overcome the socio-economic crisis! Today the essential thing is to provide a plan, concrete measures and to ensure their funding from the budget to restore the economy and to support the standard of living of the Bulgarians! And don't think 50 leva. to the pensions you will solve these problems! The real way to solve them is to recalculate pensions, which will cost 1 billion. lv. We want to see this 1 billion for an increase in income and a clear answer: how many billion will you spend on this deal? On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, I now submit a procedural proposal to call the Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence. The least they have to do is inform the Bulgarian public, and the most important thing is to discuss this issue here where it belongs in the Bulgarian Parliament of the Parliamentary Republic. The contrary means that you are continuing the vicious model of single claims of decisions, of humiliation of parliamentaryism, of humiliation of the foundations of statehood. Please call the Prime Minister and the Secretary of Defense! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. As I understand it, you will submit a procedure and, on the basis of this procedure, we will vote in this House. Moving on to the first item on the agenda: A NEW DISCLOSURE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE JUDGE POWER, ACCEPTED BY THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION OF 3 SEPTEMBER 2020, RETURNED FOR NEW DISCLOSURE WITH SAYN No 184 OF 15 SEPTEMBER 2020 TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF JOURN. 101 OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Mrs. Alexandrova has the floor, the Chair of the Legal Commission. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova, to introduce us to the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on Decree No 184 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, received on 17 September 2020, on the return for a new discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary adopted by the National Assembly on 3 September 2020, and the reasons to the Decree At its meeting held on 23 September 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed Decree No 184 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, received on 17 September 2020, for a return for a new discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary adopted by the National Assembly on 3 September 2020, and the reasons to the Ukhaza. The meeting was attended by the Administration of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria: Prof. Emilia Drumeva Prof. Emilia Drumeva reported to the members of the Commission the President of the Republic of Bulgaria and the reasons for it. On the basis of art. 101, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria the President returns to the National Assembly the provision of § 1 of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary adopted on 3 September 2020. In his motives, the President states that the amendments concerning § 1 of the adopted Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judicial Authority (JV) The National Assembly for the second time in the year makes amendments to art. 28 of the Law on the Judiciary and establishes a legal basis for elected members of the Supreme Judicial Council after the end of their term of office or upon its early termination of certain grounds to receive a promotion, i.e. to be appointed to office in the bodies of the judiciary, which is one degree higher than that which they held before their election as members of the Supreme Judicial Council. It is noted that the main guarantee of the independence of the court is that the appointments and promotions of magistrates should be made only on the basis of objective criteria such as qualification, skills, integrity, sense of independence, and the stay of magistrates in the Supreme Judicial Council cannot lead to the acquisition of the qualities necessary for a higher position in the judiciary, nor can it be compared to the achievements required for promotion. The President considers that the adopted version of art. 28 of the Law on the Judiciary contradicts the principle of separation of powers and the principle of independence of the judiciary, since it creates prerequisites for certain persons to be appointed to a higher degree of judicial bodies on the basis of criteria other than objective criteria, and there is a risk of overtaking political considerations and hence a risk to the independence of magistrates. The reasons for the Decree indicate that the new version of art. 28 of the Law on the Judiciary also violates another important constitutional principle of equality and non-discrimination based on personal or public status, and the possibility of raising the members of the Supreme Judicial Council will apply only to those of them who are magistrates, and only those who have not yet reached the highest levels in the judiciary. The President points out that the legislator thus treats the members of the Supreme Judicial Council unevenly, who have already reached the highest levels in the judiciary, as well as those who are not magistrates. It is noted that in the years since the Supreme Judicial Council was a permanent acting body, the National Assembly has elected fewer lawyers and scientists as its members, from which the quality of work and the independence of the Council suffer. The reasons for the Decree show that the places in the supreme levels of the judiciary are limited as numbers and competitions for such are rarely announced. It is expressed that the National Assembly makes the members of the Supreme Judicial Council during their term in office into competitors of magistrates who are candidates for promotion and thus creates the risk that the Supreme Judicial Council will not give them equal treatment. The discussion was attended by MPs Krum Zarkov and Hamid Hamid. Mr. Krum Zarkov pointed out that from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria...................the Bulgarian Parliamentary Group.............................. Mr Hamid Hamid stressed that he is against the president's veto and will support the re-acception of the Law on the Judicial Authority, noting that the legal regime of elected members of the Supreme Judicial Council in the adopted version is aligned with that which acts in relation to the Chief Inspector and Inspectors of the Inspectorate at the Supreme Judicial Council. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 15 votes for the Constitutional Tribunal, 7 votes against the National Assembly, and without abstention, proposed to the National Assembly that the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Judiciary, adopted by the National Assembly on 3 September 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u15	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Periodically in the Bulgarian parliaments since 2007, there has been talk and reasoning, and legislation on a matter which, at first glance, for many of the Bulgarian citizens, may be ambiguity, namely what and how, and where will the members of the Supreme Judicial Council work after their term of office expire? Why would that be a perplexity in all of the unteachable subjects? Firstly, because in a normal state, I would say the fact that you are part of the so-called government of the judiciary should be such a prestige that you do not have doubts about your career afterwards. Unfortunately, this is clearly not the case in Bulgaria. Secondly, because people do not really care about how they continue their careers. The truth is that the problem exists, as far as the Supreme Judicial Council has been turned into a permanent functioning body and in order to attract magistrates to it, they must interrupt the normal course of their careers in order to meet in this Council. And as early as 2007, it seems to me that the most logical solution has been found, namely, a person decides to run, becomes a member of the Supreme Judicial Council, then returns to the system of the place he previously occupied, but the time he spent is considered a magistrate's internship. From then on, however, things began to get complicated, year after year to create career bonuses for these magistrates. This puts on constant sharp public and political debates, and it is also a matter of a constitutional nature. And today the President is paying attention to us again. The law we were looking at aimed at assisting the judiciary in quite other aspects of increasing the guarantees of a fair trial, building information systems of judicial execution and so on. Suddenly, between first and second reading, a proposal of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms appeared for a new provision that concerns the so-called career bonus, and it was unanimously supported by GERB. The Supreme Court of Cassation reacted and referred to the Constitutional Court on the issue of arguments which could hardly be challenged. The president's veto is largely based on them, it is constitutionally motivated. I will only tell you that the request from the Supreme Court of Cassation of the Plenum to the Constitutional Court states that this brief provision violates at least five constitutional norms, and not just any rule of law; the law declaring that the Constitution has a primate over all other laws; the norm that all citizens are equal before the law; art. 8 which affects the division of authorities; and last but not least, Art. 117 of the Constitution, which protects the independence of the judiciary. And the President very rightly and in a few words in three paragraphs strongly states " and is right that this norm violates the principle of separation of authorities, first of all; that this norm creates discriminatory relations; that this norm is adopted under a procedure which does not comply with the Rules of the National Assembly. It is no coincidence that most of the opinions sent to the Constitutional Court on this issue also advocate the fact that the norm is unconstitutional. That is to say, only by this sign of compliance of the Law with the Constitution, we should not have accepted the career bonus offered more than a year and a half ago. The very norm that we see now represents ourselves as a step backwards. If the automatic growth of the magistrates had previously been foreseen, those of them, by the way, who had not already reached the ultimate level of the system, because they had nowhere to grow more, we are now offered this to be the subject of a subsequent conversation at the Supreme Judicial Council to assess whether the former colleague concerned should grow up or not. You understand how many problems of a professional, moral and legal nature are being posed, how some colleagues judge themselves, how a majority in the SJC, and it is not a secret that, unfortunately, the SJC is both functioning on the basis of a very clearly separate majority and minority. From now on, we can say that the majority is likely to grow, and the minority is not. That is, the decision proposed by the DPS and adopted uncritically by GERB, not only does not solve any of the constitutional issues, but also asks many others. In fact, you do not need to be a lawyer to understand that there is only one correct solution to the question, and it is that once a magistrate himself has chosen to run, to go through a procedure and to become a member of the Supreme Judicial Council, this choice is made under certain conditions and under these conditions he must leave the post concerned. Otherwise, what comes out? The legislature, changing the terms while the term is running, is actually rewarding either by a bonus or punishing the members of the Supreme Judicial Council as to whether they like their decisions or not. And that is absolutely unacceptable if we really say that we want to have an independent judicial system and a separation of powers. It should be known that also in the magistrates' circles of the acting magistrates these automatic bonuses, or politically motivated bonuses, are deeply and sharply criticised. They disincentive to a large extent the acting magistrates.. those who have made the choice to stand and law because the places for the above positions are limited. And when you, a colleague, have been sitting in the courtroom for five years and law enforcement, and suddenly another colleague of yours gets an automatic bonus to take over you, you will hardly feel well. A meeting of the Constitutional Court is about to take place on this matter. As far as is apparent from the Court's website, it will take place on 15 October. Whether then the Constitutional Court will decide it or not, I don't know. It is certain, however, that if the amendments to the Law come into force, this case could prove pointless, and it is important for at least two reasons. Firstly, because once we have the interpretation of the Constitutional Court, finally this continuous gum, I would call it, for ten years now will cease, as the legislator will be placed in very clear frames and will no longer be able to improvise so frivolously on this issue. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u17	Please keep your voice down, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u18	Secondly, because there are other similar situations that will be dealt with by this decision. And thirdly, because the majority, which a year and a half ago adopted the controversial amendments, will receive its fair penalty and will understand that it acted unconstitutionally. I conclude with the following: the veto of the President should be adopted; the amendment that is affected by him should be rejected, and the unconstitutional text that was adopted by you a year and a half ago should receive its deserved sanction from the Constitutional Court. The solution to the problem is essentially what it has been since 2007. Everything is clear, as long as there is no absolutely unexplained political stubbornness. Finally, Madam President, in the area of the judiciary and the judiciary, this majority has proved absolutely inappropriate to make the changes we need. On the other hand, he made a series of those that further undermined the trust of the people both in the judiciary and in the legislature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. I re-vote the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary adopted by the National Assembly on 3 September 2020. Vote 215 MPs: 149, against 66 abstentions. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary has been re-approved. The law will be sent to the President of the Republic for promulgation in the Official Journal of the Republic within seven days of its receipt under art. 101, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Here you are, Mr. Svilensky, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Madam President, at the beginning of the meeting, the President of our parliamentary group made a procedure to invite the Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence to inform the people about their yesterday's talks with the Ambassador of the United States of America. You also suggested that we do a procedure under art. 113 The submission of a draft decision. We will, of course, do this, but the two things do not contradict each other, so please, if you have not invited the Prime Minister and the Minister of Defense, to do so today, to come and inform us. We will do further procedure under art. 113, where there will now be a debate with questions and answers as per the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. My request is once again to invite the Prime Minister and the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u21	I expect your procedure, too, because otherwise it will only be information, and we will be able to develop a debate under the procedure. Mr. Petrov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u22	Thank you, Madam President. My procedure is the way I conduct myself. This is the second time that the question is raised to call the Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence. I'm not against the Prime Minister coming here because we haven't seen him in a while. However, I would like you to pay attention to the MPs, as they are intelligent people, to distinguish between an inquiry, a non-binding inquiry, between a feasibility study, because this On any request, we cannot call the Prime Minister and rely on the confidentiality of a party closely linked to the Russian KGB. [[Replications. Awesome.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u24	Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly make a procedure for proposals between the first and second votes of the Draft Law amending the Family Code, No 002-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 August 2020, adopted on 23 September 2020, to be extended by seven days. [[Change of Presidents.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u25	Mr. Ivanov, let's vote on your first proposal and then I'll give you the floor for a second proposal. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by the MP Alexander Ivanov. They voted 134 MPs: 126, against 1, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. You have the floor, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly make a procedural proposal for extension by seven days of the deadline for proposals between the first and second reading of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments, No 002-01-30, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 July 2020 and adopted on 24 September 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u27	I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Alexander Ivanov. Vote 128 MPs: 124, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. We continue with the second point of the program: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CODEX OF TRADE CORRECTION. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Here you go, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Chairman, it has not been a few months since the collapse of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria began. Currently, an entire group of six people is leaving the group of the BSP for Bulgaria. A disintegration based on value and ideological differences, a disintegration in which honest and consistent socialists are separated from those who, as the honest and consistent claim, are involved in affairs, in nepotism and in behind-the-scenes agreements with the government.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u29	What's the procedure, Mr. Mareshki?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u30	The procedure then I warned you that the places that are set aside behind the Volya parliamentary group will not be enough. I think it's becoming more and more clear to everyone today that I was absolutely right. I would ask you to take steps to secure more seats for the independent MPs. Our hunch is that the honest and consistent socialists will be more than those who are in dark dependencies, and the places that are designated for the independent MPs will not be enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. I'll keep your offer in mind. You have the floor, Mr. Letifov, to present to us the Report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u32	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping, No 002-01-37, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 August 2020. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 9 September 2020, a Bill amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping was discussed, No 002-01-37, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 August 2020. The meeting was attended by Mr. Veliko Zanchev Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, and Mr. Zhivko Petrov Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration. The bill was presented by Mr. Veliko Zanchev, who stated that its main objective is to provide measures at national level for the implementation of the European Union secondary law on the supervision of the maritime equipment market in relation to the requirements of Directive 2014/90/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on marine equipment and repealing Council Directive 96/98/EC. Separate texts of the Bill provide for a maritime equipment market surveillance authority to be designated the Maritime Administration Executive Agency. The implementation of supervision is intended to be carried out through inspections mainly on board seaships flying a Bulgarian flag. Mr. Zanchev said that the proposed changes create additional guarantees for the implementation of the provisions of the Code of Commercial Shipping, which are related to increasing safety at sea and preventing pollution of the marine environment in relation to the risk of accidents resulting from the use of marine equipment which is not in line with the regulatory requirements. On the other hand, the introduction of a special order of supervision is a prerequisite for ensuring fair competition and preventing cases of distortion of the maritime equipment market. The Bill regulates the rights and obligations of inspectors supervising the maritime equipment market. According to individual texts thereof, where inspectors carrying out surveillance have good reason to believe that marine equipment poses a risk to maritime safety, the environment or health, an assessment of marine equipment is envisaged. They are also intended to inform the European Commission and the other Member States of the results of the evaluation and the corrective actions prescribed in cases of non-compliance of marine equipment with the applicable technical requirements. In the event of failure to comply with the prescribed corrective actions, inspectors shall inform the European Commission and the Member States of any available data necessary to identify non-compliant marine equipment, the origin of the equipment, the nature of the non-compliance and the risk involved, the nature and duration of the restrictive measures imposed and the arguments put forward by the economic operator concerned. It is also possible for inspectors to indicate whether the non-compliance is due to non-compliance with design, design and performance requirements, non-compliance with test standards or deficiencies in the relevant test standards. The draft law lists administrative penal provisions concerning cases of obstruction of the powers of maritime equipment market surveillance inspectors or failure to comply with an order of the Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration. Other amendments to the provisions of the Code of Commercial Shipping relate to regulatory amendments to national legislation, as well as the mandatory implementing acts of the International Maritime Organisation. It is envisaged that recognised organisations under the European Union secondary law in force, to which the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration has empowered to carry out ship inspections, may issue certificates based on the examinations carried out. According to importers, the proposal aims to take into account good practices in other Member States of the European Union as well as to reduce the administrative burden. In order to ensure the implementation of current binding acts of the International Maritime Organisation with part of the proposed changes, it is specified that the investigation of marine accidents and incidents is carried out in accordance with the Code for the Investigation of Marine Accidents and Accidents. The establishment of an administrative penalty provision is also envisaged for cases where a master of a ship allows a person who does not have the capacity required for a particular position to carry out a similar position on board a ship. In such cases, it is proposed that the master be punished by forfeiture of the right to take office of a ship for a period of two years, unless the act constitutes a criminal offence. After the vote, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications unanimously proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping, No 002-01-37, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 August 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. My fellow Members, you have the floor for speeches. I am opening the debate. Here you go, Mr. Valkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! As has become clear, our proposed bill amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping makes proposals related mainly to the supervision of the maritime equipment market under Directive 2014/90/EU, which replaces the old Directive. What does it involve in its main part? Firstly, the creation of a special order for surveillance of the maritime equipment market. Second, designation of a body on the maritime equipment market and rights and obligations of the inspectors of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration of this supervision. Thirdly, the establishment of a legal basis for the implementation of corrective and restrictive measures in respect of marine equipment in the event of non-compliance with the regulatory requirements. Fourth, the introduction of administrative criminal provisions in relation to the order of carrying out surveillance of the maritime equipment market. Fifthly, the introduction of specific concepts related to the market surveillance of marine equipment. Another group of proposals are made that are important for the Code of Commercial Shipping, and they provide in particular the following: Firstly, a legal possibility for recognised organisations under European Union secondary law to issue certificates on the basis of inspections carried out on ships in accordance with the practices of other Member States of the European Union. Legal possibility for refusal to enter a ship's name by the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration if the chosen name of the ship is defamatory, disgraceful, socially unacceptable or incompatible with the national honor of the Bulgarian people. Bringing the Code of Commercial Shipping into line with changes in the criminal law in force by clarifying the authority of the master of the ship in the event of a criminal offence committed during the ship's voyage. Implementation of the Code of Commercial Shipping in accordance with mandatory requirements of the International Maritime Organisation relating to the implementation of the Maritime Accident and Incident Investigation Code adopted by Resolution of MSC.255 (84) of 16 May 2008 of the International Maritime Safety Committee of the International Maritime Organisation. The framework and procedure for an audit scheme of Member States of the International Maritime Administration adopted by Resolution A.1067/4 December 2013 of the Assembly of the International Maritime Organisation and Regulation 1/5 of the Annex to the International Convention on the Training and Certification of Seafarers. Our parliamentary group will support the proposed bill amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping. I call on the MPs to support the Bill, which is extremely important for our maritime shipping and for our compliance with maritime laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Valkov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Are there any other statements? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping, No 002-01-37, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 August 2020. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted. Moving on to the next point: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE 2008 CHANGES TO THE CONVENTION FOR INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR converging STATE DELECTIONS APPROVED TO THE 20th SESSION OF TOTAL COLLECTION. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 28 July 2020. Mr. Letifov, you have the floor to present us with the Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on the ratification of the 2008 Amendments to the Convention on the International Organisation for Mobile Satellite Telecommunications, approved at the 20th Session of the General Assembly, No 002-02-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 July 2020. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 9 September 2020, a Draft for ratification of the 2008 Amendments to the Convention on the International Organisation for Mobile Satellite Telecommunications, approved at the 20th Session of the General Assembly, No 002-02-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 July 2020. The meeting was attended by Mr. Veliko Zanchev Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and Mr. Zhivko Petrov Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration. Mr. Zanchev presented the Bill and pointed out that the Republic of Bulgaria is a party to the Convention on the International Organisation for Mobile Satellite Telecommunications, ratified by law, in force for the Republic of Bulgaria on 31 July 2001. By ratifying the 2008 amendments to the Convention on Mobile Satellite Telecommunications, approved at the 20th session of the General Assembly, the Republic of Bulgaria shall ensure that its commitments relating to the implementation of the Convention are fulfilled by both the authorities entrusted with the conduct of state policy and the regulation of services in the field of maritime commercial shipping and by the service providers in the form of mobile satellite telecommunications by sea. In essence, the 2008 amendments to the Convention also regulate other functions that the International Organisation for Mobile Satellite Telecommunications (IMCO) can take on. In this sense, according to art. 4 of the Convention, in the case of a decision of the General Assembly, the Organisation may perform the functions and/or duties of coordinator of the International Ship Identification and Tracking System (LRIT). In addition, the International Maritime Organisation has been appointed by the International Maritime Organisation to audit and review the effectiveness of the LRIT system in order to ensure the operation of the system throughout the world. The 2008 amendments to the Convention also create a mechanism for supervision by the Organisation of Providers providing mobile satellite telecommunications services for use in the World Maritime Disaster and Safety System. Following the vote, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 20 votes,......... is proposing to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for ratification of the 2008 amendments to the Convention on the International Organisation for Mobile Satellite Telecommunications, approved at the 20th session of the General Assembly, No 002-02-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 July 2020...................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u37	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Report of the Committee on Foreign Policy. Here you go, Mr. Manushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u38	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Foreign Policy on a Draft Law on the ratification of The 2008 amendments to the Convention on Mobile Satellite Telecommunications, approved at the 20th Session of the General Assembly, No 002-02-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 July 2020. At a meeting held on 9 September 2020, the Committee on Foreign Policy examined the 2008 Draft for ratification of the 2008 Amendments to the Convention on the International Organisation for Mobile Satellite Telecommunications, approved at the 20th session of the General Assembly of the International Organisation for Mobile Satellite Telecommunications, held on 2 October 2008 in Malta. The reasons for the bill were presented by Veliko Zanchev "Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications." In view of the decisions taken during the 25th session of the General Assembly of the International Organisation for Mobile Satellite Telecommunications in October 2018, the Parties to the Convention on Mobile Satellite Telecommunications are invited to adopt the 2008 amendments to the Convention approved at the 20th session of the General Assembly of the International Organisation for Mobile Satellite Telecommunications on 2 October 2008 in Malta. As a Member State of the International Organisation for Mobile Satellite Telecommunications and the Council of the International Maritime Organisation, the Republic of Bulgaria through its competent institutions participates both in the current activities of the organizations and in the work of their management bodies. Participating in the meetings of the General Assembly of the International Organisation for Mobile Satellite Telecommunications and the Assembly of the Council of the International Maritime Organization, the Republic of Bulgaria makes an active contribution to the work of the two organizations. By ratifying the 2008 amendments to the Convention on Mobile Satellite Telecommunications, approved at the 20th session of the General Assembly, the Republic of Bulgaria shall ensure that its commitments relating to the implementation of the Convention are fulfilled by the authorities entrusted with the conduct of state policy and the regulation of services in the field of maritime commercial shipping and by service providers in the form of mobile satellite telecommunications by sea in the World Maritime Disaster and Safety System under the legal framework of the Council of the International Maritime Organisation. The 2008 amendments extend the supervision of the International Organisation for Mobile Satellite Telecommunications to all mobile satellite service providers for use in the World Maritime Disaster and Safety System, provided that they are recognised by the Council of the International Maritime Organisation and strengthen the role of the International Organisation for Mobile Satellite Telecommunications as coordinator of the International Ship Identification and Tracking System. The amendments shall be applied provisionally from 6 October 2008. In accordance with art. 18 of the International Organisation for Mobile Satellite Telecommunications Convention, as amended, the amendments shall enter into force 120 days after the depositary has received notice of acceptance by two thirds of those countries which, during the approval of the General Assembly, were parties to the Convention. The amendments of 2008 to the Convention on mobile satellite telecommunications are subject to ratification by the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 5 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion held and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 15 votes for the European Parliament, without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly that the Draft for the ratification of the 2008 amendments to the Convention on the International Organisation for Mobile Transport, approved at the 20th session of the General Assembly, No 002-02-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 July 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Manushev. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a Draft Draft for ratification of the 2008 Amendments to the Convention on the International Organisation for Mobile Satellite Telecommunications, approved at the 20th Session of the General Assembly, No 002-02-11, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 28 July 2020. Vote 82 MPs: 79, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Mr. Letifov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u40	Mr. Chairman, I am doing a procedure that has just been adopted for ratification to be voted on at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u41	I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Halil Letifov. Vote 75 MPs: for 72, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u42	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the 2008 Amendments to the Convention on the International Organisation for Mobile Satellite Telecommunications approved at the 20th Session of the General Assembly A single member. Ratifying the 2008 amendments to the Convention on the International Organisation for Mobile Satellite Telecommunications, approved at the 20th session of the General Assembly of the International Organisation for Mobile Satellite Telecommunications, held on 2 October 2008 in Malta.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u43	Thank you. Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I put to the vote the name of the Law and the content of a Member only as presented to us. Vote 82 MPs: 80, none, abstention 2. The texts have been adopted. Let's continue with the next point: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE PROCEEDING AGREEMENT BETWEEN BULGARIA AND THE EUROPEAN INVESITION BANK WITH REGARD TO THE PANEurOPEAN GARANT FUND IN RESPONSE TO COVID-19 AND THE ARRANGEMENT AGREEMENT FOR FIRST RESTRUCTURING BETWEEN THE FIRST GARANT AND THE ACCEPTIVE GARANTS AND THE EUROPEAN INVESTITION BANK REFERRED TO BULGARIAN ON 9 July 2020 IN SOFIA AND BY THE EUROPEAN INVESTITION BANK ON 24 AUGUST 2020 IN LUXEMBUS. Importer of the Council of Ministers. [[Loud noise.]] It's very noisy in this room, don't you think? [[Loud noise.]] Mr. Vangelov, I always refrain from mentioning names, but today you just tempt me. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement on Contribution between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank with regard to the Pan-European Guarantee Fund in response to the SOVID-19 and the guarantee agreement at first request between the original guarantors and the successor guarantors and the European Investment Bank, signed by the Bulgarian side on 9 July 2020 in Sofia and by the European Investment Bank on 24 August 2020 in Luxembourg, No 002-02-16, submitted on 11 September 2020 by the Council of Ministers At a meeting held on 24 September 2020, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. The agreement on contributions between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank with regard to the Pan-European Guarantee Fund in response to COVID-19 and the Guarantee Agreement at first request between the original guarantors and the successor guarantors and the European Investment Bank were concluded in connection with the participation of Bulgaria in the Pan-European Guarantee Fund, which is part of the overall package of measures of the European Union and the European Investment Bank to minimise the economic consequences of the CoVID-19 pandemic. The creation of the Fund, which amounts to 25 billion. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. Within the framework of the Pan-European Guarantee Fund, guarantees will be provided under operations of the European Investment Bank and the European Investment Fund. Such operations may be directly financing or guarantees for high-risk operations of final beneficiaries in the participating Member States that are viable in the long term but are experiencing difficulties due to the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and which meet the requirements for commercial financing of the European Investment Bank or its financial intermediaries. The final beneficiaries are mainly small and medium-sized enterprises, but also medium-capitalised enterprises, corporations and public undertakings providing important services, in particular in the areas of health, medical research and education, which cannot receive funding under existing products of the European Investment Bank Group. The Fund shall be financed by the Member States of the European Union with their contribution in the form of irrevocable, unconditional guarantees at first request that will cover losses on operations financed by the European Investment Bank and the European Investment Fund. The amount of the guarantee for each participating Member State shall be determined as a percentage of the total amount of the Guarantee Fund corresponding to the share of the Member State in the capital of the European Investment Bank. Bulgaria's share in the capital of the European Investment Bank amounts to 0,21% and, accordingly, the guarantee that Bulgaria will provide will amount to 51 251 027,24 euros. Only operations and final beneficiaries in Member States that contribute financially to the Pan-European Guarantee Fund are eligible for funding. The contribution of the Member States participating in the Guarantee Fund shall be governed by a contribution agreement between the European Investment Bank and the Member State concerned setting the amount of the guarantee, the eligibility criteria, the initial choice of products to be guaranteed under the Fund, the levels of risk to be borne by the European Investment Bank and the European Investment Fund, the fees charged and interest charged in relation to the management of the Fund and the payments for operations. In relation to the contribution agreements, a guarantee agreement shall also be concluded on the first request between the Member States of guarantee and the European Investment Bank, which shall deal with matters relating to the scope of the guarantee provided by the participating Member States and the payment procedure in the event of the activation of a guarantee. Upon activation of a guarantee, any losses in the operations of the group of the European Investment Bank shall be covered collectively by all participating Member States. The share of each Member State in the amount to be recovered shall be proportionate to its share in the Guarantee Fund. Payments under activated guarantees are limited to the amount of participation of the Member State concerned in the Fund, i.e. the total amount of payments by Bulgaria under activated guarantees will not exceed 51 251 027,24 euros. The initial investment period of the Pan-European Guarantee Fund will be until 31 December 2021 and it may be extended by six months in agreement with a two-thirds majority of the participating Member States. The provision of a guarantee of up to the equivalent of 51 251 027,24 euros in connection with the participation of Bulgaria in the Guarantee Fund is provided for by art. 70a, para. 2 of the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020 The two agreements are approved by the decision under point 1. 39 of Protocol No 40 of the Council of Ministers meeting on 1 July 2020. Under the conditions for the establishment of the Guarantee Fund, it will start its operations after agreements on contributions with Member States whose total share in the capital of the European Investment Bank is at least 60% are signed. The European Investment Bank informed that, by the end of August, contributions agreements were signed with Member States whose total share in the capital of the European Investment Bank was 90%. According to the requirements of the two agreements, they shall enter into force from the date of the last signature, which was applied by the European Investment Bank on 24 August 2020. Since the two agreements are subject to ratification by the National Assembly by law, on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, it is agreed with the European Investment Bank that the agreements will enter into force for Bulgaria after receiving a letter from the bank informing the European Investment Bank that the ratification procedure is over. Until the notification is received, the European Investment Bank will consider Bulgaria's signature only as a temporary intention. This approach is agreed and approved by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The ratification of the two agreements ensures Bulgaria's participation in the Pan-European Guarantee Fund, which is a necessary condition for Bulgaria to be included in the scope of the eligible countries for funding under the Fund. Bulgaria's participation in the Pan-European Guarantee Fund will enable small and medium-sized enterprises, mid-cap enterprises and corporations in the country, as well as public enterprises providing services in the field of health, medical research and education to benefit from the support provided by the Fund by the European Investment Bank under favourable conditions for overcoming the difficulties due to the economic impact of the CIVID-19 pandemic. This, in turn, will help minimize the economic consequences and preserve jobs. Following the discussion of the draft, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: 21 votes for the European Investment Bank, without abstention and abstention, the Committee on Budget and Finance, proposed to the National Assembly to support the First Voting Draft for the ratification of the Agreement on Contribution between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank with regard to the Pan-European Guarantee Fund in response to the SOVID-19 and the Guarantee Agreement at first request between the original guarantors and the successor guarantors and the European Investment Bank, signed by the Bulgarian side on 9 July 2020 in Sofia and by the European Investment Bank on 24 August 2020 in Luxembourg, No 002-02-16, submitted on 11 September 2020 by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u45	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Ms. Ilieva, you have the floor to present the report to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'll introduce you to: ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Legal Issues for First Voting on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on Contribution between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank with regard to the Pan-European Guarantee Fund in response to COVID-19 and the Guarantee Agreement on First Request between the original guarantors and the successor guarantors and the European Investment Bank, signed by the Bulgarian side on 9 July 2020 in Sofia and by the European Investment Bank on 24 August 2020 in Luxembourg, No 002-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 September 2020. At its meeting on 15 September 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the above-mentioned bill. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Finance: Mrs. Marinela Petrova Deputy Minister and Mrs. Rositsa Dimitrova State Expert at the International Financial Institutions and Cooperation Directorate. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mrs. Petrova, who pointed out that the Bill proposed ratifying the Agreement on Contribution between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank with regard to the Pan-European Guarantee Fund in response to the COVID-19 and the Agreement on Guarantee at first request between the original guarantors and the successors and the European Investment Bank. Mrs. Petrova noted that these agreements were concluded in connection with Bulgaria's participation in the Pan-European Guarantee Fund, which is part of the overall package of measures of the European Union and the European Investment Bank to minimise the economic consequences of the CoVID-19 pandemic. The creation of the Fund, which amounts to 25 billion. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. Mrs. Petrova pointed out that final beneficiaries are mainly small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as medium-sized enterprises, corporations and public enterprises providing services in the field of health, medical research, education and others which cannot receive funding under the existing mechanisms of the European Investment Bank. The contribution of the Member States of the European Union shall take the form of irrevocable, unconditional guarantees at first request that will cover the losses of operations financed by the European Investment Bank and the European Investment Fund. The amount of the guarantee Bulgaria will provide will amount to 51 251 027, 24 euros, with only operations and final beneficiaries eligible for funding in the Member States that make a financial contribution to the Pan-European Guarantee Fund. Upon activation of a guarantee, any losses in the operations of the group of the European Investment Bank shall be covered collectively by all participating Member States. It is envisaged that the initial investment period of the Pan-European Guarantee Fund will be until 31 December 2021, with the possibility of extending it by six months in agreement with a two-thirds majority of the participating Member States. Under the conditions for the establishment of the Guarantee Fund, it will start its operations after agreements on contributions with Member States whose total share in the capital of the European Investment Bank is at least 60 per cent are signed and at the end of August that share is 90 per cent. As a result of the vote, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 20 votes in favour of the European Investment Bank, with no objection to the CIVID-19 and the guarantee agreement at first request between the original guarantors and the successor guarantors and the European Investment Bank, signed by the Bulgarian side on 9 July 2020 in Sofia and by the European Investment Bank on 24 August 2020 in Luxembourg, No 002-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 September 2020, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 September 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Ilieva. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I am putting to the vote a bill of debate. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova, for procedure. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u48	Dear Mr. Chairman, I ask for a procedure on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure to vote on the bill that has just been adopted and on second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u49	Thank you. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mrs. Angelova. Vote 92 MPs: 90, none, abstention 2. The offer is accepted. Please provide the texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u50	Project! LAW on the ratification of the Agreement on contribution between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank with regard to the Pan-European Guarantee Fund in response to the SOVID-19 and the Guarantee Agreement at first request between the original guarantors and the successor guarantors and the European Investment Bank, signed by the Bulgarian side on 9 July 2020 in Sofia and by the European Investment Bank on 24 August 2020 in Luxembourg A single member. It ratifies the Agreement on a contribution between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank with regard to the Pan-European Guarantee Fund in response to COVID-19 and the Agreement on a guarantee at first request between the original guarantors and the successor guarantors and the European Investment Bank, signed by the Bulgarian side on 9 July 2020 in Sofia and by the European Investment Bank on 24 August 2020 in Luxembourg. FINAL DISCLOSURE It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-30.u51	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the following texts: the name of the Law, the content of the article alone, the name of the section They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The proposed texts have been adopted. The next regular plenary session shall be from 9:00 on 1 October 2020 under the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
