ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Dear colleagues! I will present to your attention the National Assembly's Work Programme for 15 July 2020: "1." Ending the mandate of the Member of the National Assembly, resigned from the Parliamentary Representative Andon Donchev on 10 July 2020. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. Importer: Council of Ministers on 9 January 2020, adopted at the first vote on 6 March 2020. 3. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Offering of Securities. Importer: Council of Ministers on 27 May 2020, adopted at the first vote on 17 June 2020. Point 1 for Thursday, 16 July 2020 4. First vote on bills to supplement the Law on the Judiciary. Importer: Council of Ministers on 26 June 2020 and 3 July 2020. 5. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Underground Treasures. Importer: Council of Ministers on 2 April 2020, adopted on the first vote on 21 May 2020. 6. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Veterinary Activity Act. Importers: Irena Dimova and a group of MPs on 10 July 2020. Point 1 for Friday, 17 July 2020 7. Parliamentary control. Please vote on the so proposed Agenda for this week. Vote 180 MPs: 118, against 51, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Do you have a program procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm taking this procedure because on July 13th, the deadline for the expiry of TelK's decisions has expired. This means that the NSI had a legal basis to pay the disability pensions to those entitled to receive in just 13 days. I want to tell you that in most cases it is about 100 leva and a large part of the people with disabilities who receive such a pension will have to be miserable for a whole month and even more, because after 15 July it is not known whether these will be 5,000 people or much more who have the right to a disability pension. On Friday, we made a proposal that prolongs this period, given the epidemiological situation that is at present, the risk to these people's health is very high and every day the cases are increasing. We made this proposal, and I think there was goodwill from the other parliamentary groups, because I heard a statement that there was one to extend this period. However, today I see the agenda and there is no such proposal in this direction. Our proposal is not resolated either in the Social Committee and will not be seen this week, but it is extremely important that this deadline be extended so that people can still get their minimum disability pensions. I do not understand, firstly, why the Minister of Health of 19 June has stated that this deadline will be extended. Colleagues here have not made this proposal, and when we have, Madam President, I do not see it on the agenda. I hope, however, that this proposal will somehow come on the agenda and be adopted this week. Because, my fellow Members, the policy of stubbornness is not... [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva. There is no policy of stubbornness. You should read the Rules. If it had to be put on the agenda, you had to put it under art. 53, para. 3. I have distributed this bill, so it must be seen in the Commission. Declaration? Mr. Bikov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! Last night criminal gangs paid by Vasil Bozhkov attacked the National Assembly building, flooded with flammable fluids police and peaceful protesters citizens, threw paint at Parliament's building, wanted to storm it and enter it, broke glass, fought each other. All of this is part of a scenario that we have been warning about for several days, we are warning you especially because you are the largest opposition force whose leader declares that there are two ways for the government to fall. One of them had a vote of no confidence. Obviously this will not happen because we have a majority here, and the other one has been through such defeats and vandal acts. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria "Why are you lying?"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u5	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u6	That's what happened. I don't know what Mrs. Ninova said. [[(Noise, lines, and chanted by BSP for ……]] Dear colleagues, we are not in the square. Let us in Parliament behave as the position we are in requires. At the moment you are participating in a voluntary or involuntary, part of you consciously, another not, in the scenario of an organized criminal group, [[(noise, banging on banks and shouting:]] in a criminal scenario that has only one purpose. [[(Scanded by the BSP for Bulgaria (Scanded by BSP for Bulgaria) (Scanded by BSP for Bulgaria) (Scanded by BSP for Bulgaria) (Scanded by BSP for Bulgaria) (Scanded by BSP for Bulgaria) (Scanded by BSP for Bulgaria) (Scanded by BSP for resignation!) ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u7	Quiet, please! Mr. Bikov, just a moment...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u8	Either take him off the stand or we'll take him off! He won't talk nonsense!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u9	Don't talk to me, Mr. Svilensky. Mr. Bikov, I'm making a note of your art. 156 for the fact that you said a group of people involved...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u10	Why? I said "voluntarily or accidentally." [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u11	Please, colleagues! Sit down, Mr. Svilensky. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u12	If you listen to me, you'll know what I mean. I don't call BSP an organized crime group, but I call the group of Vasil Bozhkov an organized crime group, and if you have anything against it, come and say it! This is an organized criminal group that aims one thing to get Bulgaria back, and this is what Bozhkov said in Dubai. [[The speaker speaks with continuous noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And if you have decided to participate in this thing, you are making a big political mistake because this is not about a battle between GERB and BSP, it is about a battle between the state and criminal crime, and between a person who has organised the killings of several people. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) Applause by GERB and OP.)]] That's what this is about. Yesterday he heard very well what he thought about those people who protest there, peaceful protesters he thought of them as a crowd, including your activists who participate there. They have every right to participate in any peaceful protests, but no one has the right to flood Bulgarian police and Bulgarian citizens with flammable liquid. Yesterday there were no casualties due to the extremely cold police work and thanks to God, not because the protest was peaceful! There is an attempt to control this protest and I warn you once again: you may find yourself in a scenario that is not a scenario of part of you, of another part I do not know, but I am convinced that in this room and in BSP there are people who do not realize what they can be inserted into! I repeat again by Vasil Bozhkov. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u13	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u14	We've been warning you for a few weeks now. Don't turn a criminal case into a political case, because that's not what it is. It's a criminal case! [[(Replyes from BSP for Bulgaria]] If you want to make a revolution, the revolution represents what happened yesterday at 11 pm. This is the revolution, this is the face of the revolution! Those bandits who came yesterday to make provocations and to enter parliament have nothing to do with the people who have gone to express their position and declare that they are not satisfied with one thing or another! Don't mix these people in one place! Who is politically responsible for the lumps who attacked the parliament building yesterday? [[(Noise and screams from BSP for Bulgaria.) It's you!]] No! Political responsibility should be borne by the one who said: "I will sweep you away! " he who said that the fate of the people will be forged in the square, who was waving his fist at the Presidency and who for four years has been sowing hatred and has been nowhere for three days! [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] Where is he? Where is General Rumen Radev? Where have you been hiding? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Because the political responsibility for these protests must be borne by someone. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] If you do not have the opportunity to leed these protests and to leed them effectively so that the life and health of Bulgarian citizens and Bulgarian police officers can be provided, you better not engage in this work. Colleagues, we all have our differences here and every Bulgarian citizen has the right to express his opinion. I will also address those people who have come with pure intentions and the awareness that they want to live in a better and fairer state. Such acts and excesses will neither bring justice nor bring a better life, but they will benefit people who can fish in cloudy water! In such trials, leadership is taken over by the mud of society, by its slime! [[(Shouts from "BSP" for Bulgaria]] Those people who flooded cops with flammable fluids are not fighting for either democracy or freedom or justice. They're fighting for some money that's being sent to them from Dubai! And that's not gonna bring democracy. I therefore urge you to return the political debate where it belongs to the National Assembly. In seven months, there will be parliamentary elections. There every Bulgarian citizen will have the opportunity to vote on your trust and the one who earns the most trust will also have the opportunity to manage. Those are the rules of democracy. Power in a democratic state is not taken or given by blood, it is taken and given by elections. And this is the guarantee that a country will move forward and will not return to the years of political violence, such as in Bulgaria, in Bulgarian history, there are decades of political violence. Nothing has profited the Bulgarian society from this. Therefore, once again, I fully welcome you: do not participate in organised crime scenarios. Be careful! Make your people on the protests comply with the law, move within the law. I will repeat to all those who protest with a pure heart: let them be aware that if the state is weak, the mob is strong. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u16	Thank you, Madam President. I'm taking the procedure, as the sitting begins very charged with...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u17	Emotional.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u18	...emotionally. And let's speak truth! Mr. Bikoff, the money from Dubai is in the drawer and is kept with a gun to the head. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u19	Mr. Svilensky, in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u20	Don't blame the Bulgarians... [[The President turns off the microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u21	The way you're leading me, Mr. Svilensky. [[Heckling]] Yeah, tell me about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u22	You know very well where the money is from Dubai... [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u23	Mr. Svilensky, I wouldn't know anything like that. [[Noise and lines.]] Dear colleagues, we're moving on. I'll listen to the tape, see exactly what you said. [[speaking indistinctly]] and then I will decide whether or not to punish you because you said that your definition does not refer to the BSP parliamentary group. Mr. Zablyanov, a statement? Please come in for an affidavit.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u24	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The Bulgarian Socialist Party, at least of all parties in Bulgaria, since there has been a multiparty system for 30 years, can be accused of undermining parliamentaryism. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u25	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u26	This is the party, which repeatedly defends parliament, both physically and with its own MPs. And that can't be denied by anyone who has at least simple honesty in front of him and some kind of memory. The Bulgarian Socialist Party defended parliamentaryism during the difficult days of the socio-economic crisis in 1996 and 1997. It defended parliamentaryism repeatedly when many of you just six or seven years ago did everything they could to destroy constitutional order. Today the boomerang returns. Many of our predecessors in this House I speak from the Bulgarian Socialist Party, our colleagues, comrades, MPs, members of the party, to the leadership then warned all Bulgarian political parties about what governance means in this way. I hope this is your purgatory. You were guided by a single thought: how to gain power outside the Constitution, outside the laws, with unfair means in elections. You sought to gain power and that is known throughout Bulgaria! Today, approaching BSP in this way should be at least inappropriate. [[Replications from the National Representative Manoil Manev.]] BSP is the party that has never, for any reason, given any reason to be blamed for mafia ties. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u27	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u28	BSP is the party, which, to this day, regardless of the place it occupies in parliament, defends law and order in the country. But you cannot close your eyes today to the reasons for the discontent of Bulgarian citizens. And if Mr. Bikov asks the question: What's going on today in Bulgaria? The answer is extremely simple. You have to answer the question who's shooting gunpowder, Mr. Bikov?! Not who's gonna hit the match. Who's got the powder? Baruta's got it under your control. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Discontent is the result of your rule. What would be the occasion for people to go out on the street? This indeed, as you mentioned, and God cannot foresee it. But what really brings Bulgarian citizens to the street is the deep social uncertainty, the lack of direction and the program in your government, the ambiguity of where Bulgaria is going, the leaving behind the severe social differences and the growing gap between the richest and the poor in Bulgaria and the social impoverishment in the country especially for young generations. Something that, when you enter as a law in this room, you reject it for promoting birth rates, for protecting children, for helping students, for free higher education. All of this you justify it with the need to introduce market mechanisms throughout public life. So much for market mechanisms! And that outside is a riot with a very large emotional and moral charge. But at the same time is the core of a social revolution, because this does not happen only in Bulgaria. If there is a mafia here and Mr. Bozhkov is in Dubai, what is there in other European countries?! Does their mafia bring out the hardworking people and youth on the street?! Is it the mob that makes it?! There are deep socio-economic processes for all of this. The Bulgarian Socialist Party has a position and I advise you to meet, not to elementaryize the issue to the level to which you can. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We condemn the attack on Parliament, and we can't help but condemn it! In any such social situation there are all kinds of people, all kinds of interests, but they cannot be the mark on the just social, emotional, moral rebellion of the Bulgarian citizens. [[(Applause and cheering by]] You can't let them down. So what can be the advice from us to you today, basically, from squirming into a few ducklings or a nuptials: step on the Constitution, on the parliamentary republic! Let's have a fair election when it comes to it. Let the people say the word what government wants. You are a centre-right and socially responsible party at least that's what you say. Today, Europe, European societies, as a result of the crisis, is loaded with social contradictions. They are faults of the current capitalist financial system, deep defects that are reflected in the collapses of financial markets, in the collapses in the investment process, in the growing unemployment and the growing exploitation of people's labour. That's the truth about today's social movements. She's a socialist. I apologize if it doesn't sound good. Therefore, the Bulgarian Socialist Party will not harm its own country and do not accuse us of this! The Bulgarian Socialist Party is a party to the law, a party to the Constitution, a party which, by its majority, established the 1991 Constitution, the multiparty system and today's republic. So such accusations to the BSP are excluded! Find another address. And you know who he is because he was your coalition partner, you were involved in governments with him, and today you are dissatisfied with his actions. So I advise you to focus on the political situation. You were a partner in the attack and the attacks of the National Assembly in 2013 with the same guardians and performers. And today, surprised: "Where is BSP?" BSP is where it has always been, defending the Constitution, parliamentaryism and free will of Bulgarian citizens. If we adhere to these fundamental principles of political democracy, we will solve our political clashes here, on the field of the Constitution and on the field of the law. We are not a party that will encourage and support the destruction of statehood! We are a party that advocates statehood, but this statehood consists not of the Council of Ministers, not the majority in parliament, it consists of the full balance and division of the authorities in the Constitution! Something you still don't understand. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] So that we can jointly defend democracy, protect the Bulgarian state, and you, who govern, who have destroyed the political institutions that you have acted to introduce [[the President signals that time has run out]] an authoritarian regime in Bulgaria, today you must do so that we do not lose what we have achieved, not to challenge the Bulgarian society and Bulgarian citizens to actions that result from their fair anger, to support this development of Bulgaria, which will solve the serious social issues that you close your eyes to...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u29	The weather, Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u30	...to change management in elections because your time is up, Mrs. Karayancheva! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u31	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. We continue with messages. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Procedure, Mr. Ivanov. What's the procedure? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u32	Madam President, honourable Members! Madam President, I think that, in relation to everything that has been said here and what is happening in the squares in Bulgaria, not only in Sofia, but in the whole country, but also the frequent cases of violence against protesters, I think that the Interior Minister owes an answer to how the police act, what happened to those Bulgarian citizens who have serious complaints that violence has been exercised on them and what happened. So I ask you to invite the Home Secretary to give his answer to how...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u33	Information.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u34	Information Yes, how are the protests developing and do the police really exert violence on the protesters? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. I'll inform the Home Secretary. Mr. Chenchev, the procedure in the manner of conduct and then the declaration by Mr. Mareshki. Here you go, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u36	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Karayancheva!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u37	Tell me, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u38	I have heard from your own lips how you accuse the President of the Republic of not being a uniter. Dear President, to you: You, who have accumulated in yourself the energy of the Bulgarian civil society, the voters who voted, and you have headed this prestigious institution, the highest post in the state of Constitution, you are not any unifying nation and you are not in line with the position you hold! Because I am already impressed several times that you do not create tolerance between the people who are getting on the stand, and you do not provide a dialogue, a discussion that should suit the National Assembly is one by hand, but, Mrs Karayancheva, Madam President of the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u39	I'm listening with extreme caution.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u40	... You're protesting whether they're in favour or not, but you're splitting people into ours and yours. You have no right to sit down, talk, and lecture. You have no right! [[GERB lines.]] You don't! You are the President of the National Assembly! And, Mrs. Karayancheva, you should be ashamed of yourself, not only you, all of you on the right hand side, because demand as the first person in the state, first, what and where is the bank order of money from the drawer?! If the Interior Minister does not come because Bulgarian citizens are being beaten up, ask the prime minister responsible for security and order in the state to explain why there is violence against protesters and to explain...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u42	...will he return the money and contain... [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u43	Two minutes is up. I was tolerant enough to Mr. Zablyanov's statement. Dear Mr. Chenchev, in addition to being President of the National Assembly, I am a Member of the National Assembly from the Ninth Election Region and I am a citizen of Bulgaria. There is democracy, and I have the opportunity to go wherever I want, and here I am, I think, appropriately, and I am giving every single MP a chance to express his position. We are continuing with billings and draft decisions from 8 to 14 July 2020. Excuse me, Mr. Mareshki. Please excuse me. Just don't charge me with double standard. I missed. Please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u44	Did you hear what he said?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u45	I didn't hear him. Here you go, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u46	Dear Bulgarians [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria]] , Madam President, honourable Members! It is no accident that I addressed our fellow Members first this time this statement and this statement will address it mainly to them because we see that you are not learning 30 years from events that are happening and repeating and repeating the same thing. The previous ones think they're not guilty of anything, the current ones think they're unpunished. Very sweetly spoken by my colleague Zhabljanov "Most of the Bulgarians have not had the opportunity to learn so sweetly to speak, but unfortunately [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria]] ...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u47	Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u48	...a lot of lies you've told. I'll just say one of them. [[a line from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] When he asked, "Who's shooting the gunpowder?" Dear colleagues, what world do you live in? Don't you see what the protests say: "We don't like GERB, but we don't want BSP? [[Replicate from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u49	Please, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u50	Do you follow the news and what the normal, true protesters want? [[Replications from the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Ivan Chenchev, noise from BSP for Bulgaria.]] They say... [[Extreme lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Dear Madam President...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u51	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u52	...I'm gonna ask you here there are, especially some, superaggressive, even they've taken the liberty of threatening coworkers. [[Calling from the auditorium]] Get him out of the room. [[(Voices from BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u53	I'm not gonna get him out for now. I'll ask Mr. Chenchev to take his place. Please don't disturb the speaker, Mr. Chenchev! Take your seat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u54	No, I can't be embarrassed.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u55	Here you go, Mr. Mareshki. Let's have order in the room...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u56	The problem is that people like him are not embarrassed by what the protests say!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u57	Not personal. Mr. Mareshki, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u58	I say people like him don't see what the protests say. They say, "We don't want you, we want the government's resignation, but we want Radev's resignation too!" [[Radio, lines and laughter from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yeah, laugh, laugh, I'll tell you the rest. Who's got the powder? A lot of gunpowder, coworkers, you put it together, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u59	When?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u60	When the pensions were three dollars. When you didn't make the institutions [[Applause from the Bulgarian Rhodolists]] So...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u61	That gunpowder blew up!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u62	...that irreversibly they now work in the interests of the citizens! When you didn't make the pension 500 leva. and no one would have allowed themselves to reduce them to the current level to 200 leva.! That's why you are just as guilty as all the others who have ruled these years, for misery, for lack of justice! And when we led the fight for justice, because you say, "We will support who to support?" When we led the fight for justice, the fight against the cartels that you created and kept guarding them because no one said a word! And President Radev has not spoken for four years about whether fuel prices are fair, have the people in Bulgaria been robbed! Is this your justice? [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] Is this your fight for justice? My fellow Members, beyond your being guilty of the accumulation of gunpowder, I would also like to tell you the following, which I have repeatedly said. A little humbler because one rules by 13 to 15 per cent of the votes of Bulgarian citizens, and the other is the biggest opposition has 8 9 per cent of the votes of Bulgarian citizens and maybe less! [[(Replys from BSP for Bulgaria: How much do you have? How many do you have?]] I will now answer that question. And the weirdest part is that the majority of the Bulgarian people are against all of you...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u63	They're for you!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u64	...are the least represented in parliament by the smallest parliamentary group of the Volya. [[Radio, laughter from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u65	Quiet, please, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u66	This is the big problem in Bulgaria that the Bulgarian people, those who are in the square now, are not represented in the Bulgarian Parliament! Because they're protesting against everyone! That is why I turned to the Bulgarian people: not to succumb to provocations anymore; the elections will be in just a few months to think well with their heads, not to believe the new lies, not to believe that the old traitors and thieves have become new and will fix their lives! To choose only among people who have never ruled; to choose among people who, before making a promise, have shown by their actions that they can solve problems! [[Applause from the Bulgarian Rhodolists.]] So that after the next election the discontent will begin again, to start booing again, to start scandals again and to make Facebook groups again. Therefore: Come to our city to solve our problems, Mr. Mareshki, come to the other city to solve our problems! [[Laughter from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] By mass voting in the next election against those who robbed you! In conclusion, only in relation to the events that took place with Mr. Bozhkov and the BSP parliamentary group. We are very worried and will ask the leadership of the National Assembly to provide more seats for independent MPs in the back, because if further the SRS comes out, I am worried that the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria is able to ease up to 30 people. Thank you very much. [[(Laughter at GERB. Claps by GERB and]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u67	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Did Mr. Jablyanov have a personal explanation? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u68	There's no personal explanation on a statement I've been told many times. [[Executing lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u69	Yes, yes, I saw you, Mr. Ermenkov, you procedure in the manner of conduct? One, two, three procedures. Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u70	A very brief personal explanation, I don't think it's necessary anymore. Mr. Mareshki, thank you for the compliment of the Golden Knuckle you are talking about is the dome of the Audience of Sofia University. Thank you. [[Applause and laughter from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u71	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Mr. Ermenkov, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u72	Madam President, I ask you very much, when from this platform someone gives you advice, to listen to them, but to be careful about the advice, because they concern not so much the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria and how many seats should be in the back, but to the government of Bulgaria, its prime minister and the minister of finance they have communicated with Bozhkov. Most likely the SRS that will come out are for them, so find a place for them in some suitable prison. Thank you. [[GERB's line.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u73	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Here you go, Mr. Popov. Then Mr. Kutev, then Mr. Pawnov. What, the way you're running it? The personal explanations are over, you are not named, Mr. Pawnov. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u74	Thank you, Madam President. You, as President of the National Assembly, should be an example of imitation of the other Bulgarian citizens of a moral nature, compliance with the laws of the country and, of course, keeping promises given by you or by your parliamentary group. I remember how here, from this tribune, I think that personally you and a large part of GERB's parliamentary group, when, as my colleague Valeri Zablyanov said, you managed to get to power again, you promised that Parliament would never be fenced again, never before will there be policemen to protect it! Outside, dear Mrs. Karayancheva is Fort Knox, hundreds of police officers, gendarmes, cars, equipment that protect the parliament from the fair resentment of society, Bulgarian citizens! Keep your promise and free Bulgaria from your incompetent attempts to rule! Thank you. [[Replications from the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Plamen Manushev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u75	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Mr. Kutev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u76	Madam President, in connection with the almost inseparable political theatre that we saw once again, and with the fact that someone was trying to read me morale, I have an insistence on you to see if it is true that Mr. Maibach's Mr. Mareshki's lamp is moving with the lights of the National Assembly... [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u77	What's moving, excuse me?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u78	...and who actually let him do it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u79	Excuse me...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u80	And if it is true, I ask you to make sure that this does not happen, because I have not heard of the right to have private lights of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u81	The lights are not for the National Assembly. Mr. Mareshki is Vice-President of the National Assembly. [[Lowered noise in the hall.]] Mr. Pawnov, what do you want? In the manner of conduct. You're welcome to join us in the manner of conduct. Please, colleagues, for silence! [[Noise in the room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u82	Madam President, colleagues! I've listened to Mr. Mareshki's declaration. Mr. Mareshki, I would like to remind you of 2005, when you were negotiating in Vasil Bozhkov's office for joint participation [[noise and lines]] But because of your... [[The President Tsveta Karayancheva turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u83	The way you're holding me, Mr. Pawnov! Mr. Pawnov, what's your point to me? It was the way it was conducted, and I strictly follow it. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Colleagues, we are continuing with billings and draft decisions of 8 July 2020: Draft decision for the establishment of a temporary commission on the occasion of acquisition of the Bulgarian Development Bank (Bulgarian Development Bank) of 28 265 200 shares in the capital of the first investment bank. [[Noise and lines.]] Order in the court, fellow Members! Importers suppose Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration. Importers "Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is the lead. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs and to the Committee on the Fight against Corruption, Conflict of Interest and Parliamentary Ethics. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order is the lead. It has been allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft amending and supplementing the European Structural and Investment Funds Fund Management Act. Importers.. Petar Petrov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It has been allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and to the Committee on Agriculture and Food. A bill amending the Law on Measures and Actions during the state of emergency. Importer "Cornelia Nino" and group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It has been allocated to the Committee on Health, and to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Draft Law amending and supplementing the National Security Service Act. Importers srasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs. The Committee for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act is the lead. It has been assigned to the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. Importers - Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, and to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. A bill to supplement the Civil Procedure Code. Importers - Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. It has been assigned to the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Veterinary Activity Act. Importer "Irena Dimova" and group of MPs. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. A bill to supplement the Law on Radio and Television. Importers sievegeni Budinov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Culture and Media is the lead. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Services Act. Importers - Svetlana Naydenova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, and to the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Messages: On 10 July 2020, in accordance with the decision of the National Assembly of 26 June 2020, adopted in connection with the debates on questions by the MPs Rumen Gechev and Georgi Svilenski, No 054-05-26 of 3 June 2020, it was received by the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov detailed information on the number of gambling organizers, as well as on the budget receipts from fees and taxes from the gambling sector for the last five years. The material is sent to the MPs at their e-mail addresses and is available at the Library of the National Assembly. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, by his own orders he has authorised the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of a non-military nature of: - Il-76 with his crew from the Air Force of Ukraine. The authorisation shall be valid for the period from 14th to 19 July 2020 for a total of two fields for the transport of military production; - Air C-130 with its crew from the Air Force of the Republic of Iraq to transport medical property from the Republic of Hungary to the Republic of Iraq. The authorisation shall be valid for transit through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria on flights via the Republic of Iraq route. The orders issued are within the competence of the Minister of Defence, concerning the assessment of the military parameters of the passage with a view to the defence of the country. On issues concerning export control and compliance with international plantation regimes mandatory for the Republic of Bulgaria, the country's airspace clearance should be granted to the State concerned following a positive opinion from the competent authorities in these areas, the Ministry of Economy, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The National Statistical Institute has received information about: - R & D indexes in the section "Retail trade', excluding trade in cars and motorcycles' in May 2020; - Industrial production indexes in May 2020; - Construction production indexes in May 2020. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Message: To Ms. Karajancheva, Chairman of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 15, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I inform you that I am leaving the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Aleksandar Paunov The other message: "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 15, para. On 14 July 2020, 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly received an application from Alexander Dimitrov Pawnov to the Chairman of the parliamentary group BSP for Bulgaria. I would like to inform you that, to date, the parliamentary group consists of 78 MPs. Please make sure that the change is reflected in the Registry of the National Assembly in due time. Mrs. Damyanova, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u84	Madam President, honourable Members! I request a procedure for extending the deadline for proposals between the first and second votes on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Pre-school and School Education Act adopted on 9 July 2020 by seven days.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u85	Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 96 MPs: 95 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we are moving to the first item of today's agenda: TERMINATION OF A PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE. REPRESENTATIVE OF THE PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE ANDON DONCHEV ON JULY 10, 2020 "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I am resigning as MP elected from the mandate of the 44th National Assembly. I wish that my authority as a Member of the National Assembly be terminated for reasons of personal nature by a decision of the National Assembly pursuant to art. 72, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic. Mr. Andon Donchev, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Rhodolivtsi. I present to you a service project: Project! DECISION terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly, on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED I terminate Andon Dimov Donchev's authority as a Member of Parliament from the Third Election Region. Please, voting mode. Vote 89 MPs: 82, against 4, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Mr. Shopov, come in for a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u86	Madam President, honourable Members! I voted against because we are losing a colleague who was in class with everything going on in the country that was quiet, who very often wanted to speak, but did not, who had an authentic stand and position. I voted against because Parliament is becoming less parliament, and parliamentaryism loses when people like him leave here. He did it unexpectedly without commenting without resisting. He did it as a man with a very high sense of duty, responsibility and loyalty. I don't know what the inner motives are, reasons, considerations, conflicts in the will are their business, but I turn to all my colleagues with what I have understood for many years as a people's representative: to fight to contribute to society, to hear your voice and your faithful positions then, when you are here, you must do it and never desert, to come out of the battle, because so personally you are comfortable and because you have despaired so much that you see no way out of this situation. That is why I voted against and from now on I will hold and be on the side of every honest person, no matter which group is... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u87	Time, Mr. Shopov!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u88	...to be himself, to be what he was chosen for and for which he was responsible to the people who chose him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u89	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Moving on to the second item of today's agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS IN HUMAN MEDICIA. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 9 January 2020. Adopted in the first vote on 6 March 2020. Mrs. Daritkova, come and introduce us to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u90	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Please vote on a procedure for admission to the Chamber of the Deputy Minister of Health Dr. Boyko Penkov. Please vote on the procedure for the Deputy Minister's admission. Vote 85 MPs: 81 against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Deputy Minister. Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u91	Report for a second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, No 002 01 5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 January 2020. Adopted in the first vote on 6 March 2020. The Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine is amended and supplemented by the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Statements? I can't see. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the Law. Vote 80 MPs: 75 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u92	Under § 1, there is a proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs. ................................................................................... Art. 1 is amended as follows: Art. 1. (1) This law governs public relations relating to medicinal products for human use and the right of citizens to access quality, safe and efficient medicinal products. It lays down the terms and conditions for: 1. authorisation of the use or registration of industrially manufactured or manufactured by a method involving an industrial process, medicinal products intended for human medicine; 2. authorisation of the production, intra-Community acquisition, intra-Community supply, import and export of medicinal products; 3. production, intra-Community acquisition, intra-Community supply, import, export and wholesale of active substances; 4. the classification of the prescription and release of medicinal products; 5. pricing of medicinal products; 6. wholesale and retail trade in medicinal products; 7. parallel import and parallel export of medicinal products; 8. the monitoring system for the safety of the medicinal products placed on the market; 9. authorisation and conduct of clinical trials, and monitoring of the effect of therapy; 10. control, advertising and sanctions (2) This law shall also regulate public relations concerning medical devices excluded from the scope of art. 5 of the Medical Products Act. (3) This law also regulates public relations regarding immunological, homeopathic medicinal products, medicinal products based on human blood and plasma, as well as radiopharmaceuticals. (4) This law shall regulate the order, preparation and control of the positive medicinal list of the Republic of Bulgaria of a medicinal product (s) paid in part or entirely with public financial resources, including. and those included in the medical assistance agreed with the LDC under art. 45 of the Health Insurance Act. (5) This law shall regulate the order, preparation and control of the Social Drug List of medicinal products and medical devices for human use referred to in paragraph 2 paid in part or entirely with private financial resources under this law. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u93	Thank you. Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u94	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! As importers of a proposal to the VID of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, we have complied with Directive 2001/83 of the European Parliament and of the Council, which codifies the legal rules relating to medicinal products for human use. Secondly, from a legal and technical point of view, we have taken into account the General Practical Guidance of the Council since 2015, intended for those involved in drafting legislative texts. Thirdly, we have complied with the Law on Legislative Acts. Art. 1, Art. 1. 1 We have pointed out the subject of the Law............................. the public relations related to medicinal products for human use........................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The current text in art. 1 goes straight with the words: "This Law regulates the terms and conditions for...."... we believe that in this part of the current text of the Law.................................................................... 1 is incomplete and that is why we are making an adjustment, and we propose to add more to the scope: monitoring the effect of the "control" therapy, and not just control of production and imports, sanctions - parallel exports, and not just parallel imports of medicinal products for human use. We introduce the terms of the internal acquisition and internal delivery and export of active substances, not only production, imports and wholesale trade of active substances. I suggest in our text to be added from the current text of art. 1, t. 5a and mediation in the field of medicinal products, with which we get a complete and accurate picture of the scope of the Law. And four, in para. 2 of the proposal shall also be governed by public relations concerning medical devices excluded from the scope of art. 5 of the Medical Products Act. We also introduce a social medicinal list of medicinal products. 5 of the Medical Products Act, with their payment with entirely private financial resources. Here is the place to mention that we have also paid attention to the positive drug list, which is listed in two laws at the same time in the Insurance Act and the Drug Products Act in Human Medicine, by indicating the order, preparation and control of the Positive Drug List.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u95	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs. Voted 103 MPs: 23, against 76, abstention 4. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 1 supported by the Commission. They voted 99 MPs: 82, against 1, abstention 16. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u96	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: They are created § 1a 1e: supposed to be in the same condition as in the same way as in the same way as in Art. 2. This law aims to create conditions that ensure the marketing authorisation, production, placing on the market and marketing of medicinal products for human use which meet the requirements for quality, safety and effectiveness. § 1b. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 8 t. Six is § 1c. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9, para. 1 the words "by decree of the Minister of Health" shall be replaced by "in the Rules for the Implementation of this Law," issued by the Minister of Health. § 1d. Everywhere in the text of the law, the word "order" is replaced by a rule for the application of this law issued by the Minister of Health. § 1e. Art. 15. is canceled. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u97	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u98	Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I propose the creation of two new paragraphs § 1a to § 1e, thereby extending the scope of the Law, which aims to create conditions............................................................................................. We're proposing a t. 6 in art. 8 the current text to be repealed, and we believe that export medicinal products must also be subject to authorisation under this law. We believe that the regulations in this law are too many and they can enter into the rules for its implementation and everywhere the word "order" to be replaced by the Rules for the implementation of this law issued by the Minister of Health. And perhaps a very serious proposal.... we propose the annulment of art................................................................................. 15 of the current text in force in order to reduce the administrative burden and to move on to the structure of the Executive Medicines Agency, which we have recorded further in paragraphs, art. 17, para. 9, our text. Our motivations are as follows: the Director of the Drug Executive Agency is now proposing to the Minister of Health, expert groups and the Regulations on which the Pharmacopény Committee for the Promotion is working.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u99	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. Replices? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u100	Dear colleagues, I respect Dr. Naydenova's efforts to rewrite the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, but I want to assure you that there is no reason for this. All drug policy legislation is synchronised with the regulations and regulations of the European Union and therefore it has been functioning since 2007 and is updated if necessary to make new changes relating to the update of European legislation. I guarantee that this framework is absolutely correct and meets all the requirements of the European legislative framework. There is no benefit from what is currently offered by colleague Naydenova. And in any case, it will create a huge mix-up with all the avant-garde proposals that are being made. Therefore, I ask you really not to support these proposals. There is no benefit from them.. neither for patients' access to quality and safe medicinal products, nor for the functioning of this complex system, which, once again, is fully synchronised with the European legislative framework.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u101	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs. Vote 89 MPs: 16 against 70, abstention 3. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u102	According to § 2 "A proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, The first sentence shall be replaced by the first sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u103	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 2. Vote 84 MPs: 82, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u104	According to § 3 "A proposal of the National Representative Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: the following point is inserted after point 4a (Commission .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 5. (a) c. 4 after the word "Imports', a parallel export is added. (b) t. 5a is amended as follows: 5a. issue, refuse or terminate an authorisation for the production, import and wholesale of active substances; 2. In para. 6 words are replaced by actions. 3. The creation of para. 9. A PharmacopEAN Committee on the Issues of the Active is hereby established at the Executive Agency of the Medicines Agency (IAL). The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the The Drug Executive Agency shall coordinate the activities in the field of control of medicinal products in conjunction with regional health inspections (RAIs).
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u105	Thank you. Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u106	Honourable Members of the National Assembly! We support the importer in art. 17, para. 6, since our proposal coincides with the proposal of the Council of Ministers, but in § 3, Article 3. 17, para. 5 are our proposals. We add the Drug Executive Agency, except for authorisations for parallel imports, to issue an authorisation for parallel exports, in particular. 4 to para. 5. We believe that it is not enough for the Drug Executive Agency to enter only manufacturers, importers and wholesalers with active substances but to issue, refuse or terminate their respective authorisations by amending this. 5a in the same para. 5 of art. 17 of the current text.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u107	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs. Vote 81 MPs: 10, against 66, abstention 5. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 3. Vote 85 MPs: 73, none, abstention 12. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u108	Under § 4, there is a proposal of the MP Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer proposing the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17b, para. 1 sentence first after the words the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union is added a representative of the Bulgarian Association of Assistant Pharmacists and the words the seniors are replaced by the seniors.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u109	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for § 4. They voted 86 MPs: 84, none, abstention 2. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u110	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: They are created § 4a and 4b: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19th para. 1 the following amendments and 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 at the end is added to their warehouses. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 7 is finally § 4b. In the name of Section V in Chapter 3, after the word "Restives', the name of Section V of Chapter 3 is added. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u111	Statements? Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u112	Honourable Members, specifically in our proposal under art. 19th para. 1 We propose that the Executive Medicines Agency, in addition to keeping a register of wholesalers, should keep a register of their warehouses, as further in our proposals we plan and offer to have the corresponding allowance if the sale takes place from a wholesale warehouse.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u113	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs. They voted 86 MPs: 10, against 70, abstention 6. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u114	Proposal of the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19 the following 1. In para. 1, t. In the case of medicinal products authorised for use under a centralised procedure under Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council, the last entry is added. 2. A new para is being created. 3: s) The Drug Executive Agency shall generate a unique national identification number for each medicinal product and enter it in the register under para. 1, t. 3. 3. They're creating an al. 4, 5 and 6: The national identification number referred to in paragraph 4 of this Article shall be entered in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be entered in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be entered in the Official Journal of the European Union. 3 is the national number within the meaning of Article 3. 4 (b) (iii) of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/161 of 2 October 2015 supplementing Directive 2001/83/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council by laying down detailed rules for the safety performance on the packaging of medicinal products for human use (OB, L 32/1 of 9 February 2016).), hereinafter referred to as "Delegated Regulation (EU) Butane', for medicinal products as defined in Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/161. (5) The national number for the identification of the medicinal product under para. 3: 1. ensure the unique identification of each medicinal product and the interoperability of health information systems; 2. shall be used by all persons, in all registers and other databases, as well as in medical documentation relating to medicinal products. (6) The Registers under para. 1 maintain interoperability and automated interface providing information in machine readable format through which it can be used by other information systems. 4. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 6. Under § 6 there is a proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 7: .................................................... Article 3 is Art. 68a. The Marketing Authorisation Holder shall ensure the introduction of the individual identification mark under art. 168, para. 8, p. 1 of each package in the system of registers in accordance with Delegated Regulation (EU)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u115	Statements? Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u116	My fellow Members, with our proposal, we would like to give you particular attention to this. 2, since there is mysteriously another official laboratory for the control of medicinal products, I am now quoting Ordinance No 36 of 22 August 2007 on the conditions and procedures for sampling for state control of medicinal products, carrying out the tests and their payment, which is now up to date, where it explicitly writes:. Another official laboratory for the control of medicinal products of a country in the European Union or the European Economic Area. Today, however, the Council of Ministers' proposal is to remove this from the European Union and the European Economic Area in such laboratories, and, exceptionally, this can only happen when there are no conditions. However, it impresses me and I could not get an answer to that when a manufacturer through a planter built another control laboratory...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u117	Mrs. Naydenova, if you'll excuse me...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u118	...which further meets the conditions of the definition proposed by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u119	Mrs. Naydenova, if you'll excuse me, I do not find the connection between the texts at issue and the speech! I'm trying to get into the text, but I can't.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u120	There is a connection as we propose to drop out...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u121	You don't have a proposal!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u122	However, there is no proposal in this case.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u123	We do, we do! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u124	No, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u125	We have a proposal. I'll show it to you now.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u126	I'm sorry, but I really can't find the connection. Okay, then I'll explain again exactly what we want. [[Noise, lines and shouts: "Eee!" by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u127	Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I will put the following texts to the vote: the Commission's proposal to create a new § 5 with a text according to the Commission Report; the text of the importer for § 5, which becomes § 6, as well as the version proposed by the Commission for § 6, which becomes § 7. They voted 86 MPs: 84, against 1, abstention 1. The proposed texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u128	Under § 7 there is a proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: In § 7 t. 2 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 69 the following 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The Marketing Authorisation Holder of a vaccine or an immunological product intended for immunization before placing each batch of the product on the market is required to submit to the IAL: 1. an application on a template approved by the Executive Director of the EAL; 2. samples of the final product and/or samples of the bulk/dissolved product and/or samples of intermediate and output products in quantities specified in the Manual for the Release of a batch of medicinal product by an official control body issued by the European Director of Quality of Medicinal Products and Health; 3. records of the production and quality control of the account issued by the manufacturer, which take into account as a minimum the data specified in the model of the administrative procedure of the European Director for the Quality of Medicines and Health for the release of an account from an official control body. 2. In para. 3 after the words "Accredited Laboratory" "Accredited Laboratory" is added "or another official control laboratory". 3. In para. 4 the word "supplier' is replaced by "supplier' and the test under para. 3.................................................................................. 4. Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: The certificate for batch release shall be issued by the Executive Director of the EAL or by an official authorised by him and before the batch of the medicinal product is placed on the market in other countries at the request of the Marketing Authorisation Holder of the medicinal product. The application shall be accompanied by samples of para. 1, t. 2 and batch production and quality control protocols issued by the manufacturer which take into account as a minimum the data specified in the World Health Organisation Manual for batch release by a national regulatory authority. It's five o'clock. Alinea 6 is amended as follows: When assessing and testing under para. 3 for the batch concerned, medicinal products have been carried out by an official laboratory for the control of medicinal products in another Member State before placing the batch on the market in the country, the holder of the marketing authorisation shall submit to the EAL the certificate of release of the batch of medicinal products issued by the regulatory authority of the Member State as well as an information form for sale on a model approved by the Executive Director of the EAL.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u129	Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u130	There's no need to say that.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u131	I understand the discontent of colleague Ivanov, but I will ask him to stand a little closer, because he is too far behind, has changed his place and is not well heard. Secondly, he is one of the good specialists under the Law on Medicinal Products, and his help will be very valuable today so that the MPs can make the right decision rather than speak from the place. So let's move on. There is a danger when a manufacturer through a planter builds another control laboratory, then release medicinal products that do not comply with the specifications. These are medicinal products, colleagues, and it is not something else that is safer, so our concern for which I would like to say the following is that if, by now, in the current text, this had to happen in other European countries when there are objective reasons why this could not happen in the laboratories of the IAL, it is now dropping out. And we are gradually coming down from a European level, only internally, national, to determine what laboratories can do this.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u132	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u133	Please, Dr. Daritkova, it doesn't look like the head of the Health Commission to keep calling from the spot! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u134	- What's the line? Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs. Vote 76 MPs: 15 against 58 abstentions 3. This proposal is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the amendment proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 7, which shall become § 8. Vote 81 MPs: 70 against 8, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u135	Under § 8 there is a proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: In § 8 t. 2 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 70 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The Marketing Authorisation Holder of a medicinal product obtained from human blood or human plasma before placing each batch of the product on the market is required to submit to the IAL: 1. an application on a template approved by the Executive Director of the EAL; 2. samples of the final product and/or samples of the bulk/dissolved product and/or samples of intermediate and output products in quantities specified in the Manual for the Release of a batch of a medicinal product by an official control body issued by the European Director for the Quality of Medicines and Health; 3. records of the production and quality control of the account issued by the manufacturer, which take into account as a minimum the data specified in the model of the administrative procedure of the European Director for the Quality of Medicines and Health for the release of an account from an official control body. 2. In para. 2 after the words "Accredited Laboratory" "Accredited Laboratory" is added "or another official control laboratory". 3. In para. 3 the word "supplier' is replaced by "supplier' and the test under para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the 4. Alinea 4 is canceled. 5. Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: When the assessment and testing under para. 2 for the batch concerned, medicinal products have been carried out by an official laboratory for the control of medicinal products in another Member State prior to placing the batch on the market in the country, the holder of the marketing authorisation shall submit to the EAL the certificate of release of the batch of medicinal products issued by the regulatory authority of the Member State as well as an information form for sale on a template established by the Executive Director of the EAL.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u136	Statements? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs. Vote 80 MPs: 13, against 60, abstention 7. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the amendment proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 8, which shall become § 9. They voted 83 MPs: 71, against 1, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u137	According to § 9 there is a proposal of the MP Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 70a and 70b: Art. 70a. The Executive Medicines Agency may carry out further tests on samples of a medicinal product under art. 69 and 70 in the following cases: 1. a significant change in the process of production, classified in order defined in the regulation under art. 42; 2. change of the place of production; 3. adverse event under § 1, t. 40 of the additional provisions; 4. significant deviations in the production process; 5. changes in the manufacturer's test procedures; 6. unexpected variability in the results of quality control tests carried out by the manufacturer or by the official control body; 7. a critical report from the manufacturer's inspection. Art. 70b. (1) For the issue of a certificate of release of an account, the holder of a marketing authorisation shall submit to the EAL a document of payment of a fee fixed in the tariff under art. 21, para. 2. (2) The costs of carrying out the tests under art. 69 and 70, as well as the costs of additional testing under art. 70a is at the expense of the applicant. (3) The certificate for batch release shall be issued in Bulgarian in the name of the Marketing Authorisation Holder of the medicinal product and, at his request, in English. (4) When in the cases referred to in art. 69 and 70 batch of medicinal product is not in accordance with the approved specifications, the Executive Director of the IAL or an official authorised by him shall make a reasoned refusal to issue an batch release certificate. (5) The Executive Agency of the Medicines shall send data on the refusal under para. 4 in the system of official control laboratories of the Member States and of the Swiss Confederation. (6) Refusal under para. 4 shall be subject to appeal under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. Under § 10, there is a proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 150 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2: (a) c. 1 the words "Criminality Certificate or similar document of the person, if not a Bulgarian citizen" shall be deleted; (b) point 8 is repealed. 2. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The Executive Agency of the Medicines Agency shall establish the circumstances of the criminality of the person referred to in Article 4. 148, p. 2 and the persons referred to in art. 149, when they are Bulgarian citizens. For non-Bulgarian nationals, the application shall provide a criminal record or equivalent document issued by a competent authority of the country concerned. 3. The creation of para. 5. The Executive Agency of the Medicines Agency shall officially establish the circumstances concerning the existence of a permit for use or a certificate of entry into service of the premises for production, control and storage, issued under the Law on Construction in the Area, or of another valid document within the meaning of the Law on Construction in the Area. Under Paragraph 11, there is a proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made in accordance with Article 11. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 156, para. 2 the words the order under art. 152 (c) shall be replaced by the following: 156a and a fee payment document of an amount fixed in the tariff under art. 21, para. 2. Under § 12, there is a proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made in accordance with Article 12. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 156a: Art. 156a. (1) In case of change under art. 156, para. 1, t. 1 and 2 the applicant shall provide: 1. diploma for completed higher education; 2. a contract of employment; 3. documents certifying additional qualifications; 4. A work experience document. (2) The Executive Medicines Agency shall establish the circumstances of the person under art. 148, p. 2 and the persons referred to in art. 149, when they are Bulgarian citizens. For non-Bulgarian nationals, the application shall provide a criminal record or equivalent document issued by a competent authority of the country concerned. (3) In case of change under art. 156, para. 1, t. 4 The applicant shall provide the following documentation relating to the change concerned: 1. a scheme for the construction or reconstruction of the premises for production, control and storage; 2. an environmental impact assessment in the production of medicinal products in the cases provided for in the Environmental Protection Act; 3. a basic validation plan including the premises declared for change; 4. a copy of the award contract where some of the activities in the production, control and storage of medicinal products are carried out at another site in or outside the Republic of Bulgaria. (4) In case of change under art. 156, para. 1, t. 4 The IAL shall officially establish the circumstances concerning the existence of a permit for use or certificate of entry into service of the premises for production, control and storage, issued under the Law on Construction in the Area, or of another valid document within the meaning of the Law on Construction in the Area. (5) In case of change under art. 156, para. 1, t. The applicant shall provide the following documentation: 1. a list of standard operating procedures for production, control and cleaning; 2. a basic validation plan including the processes claimed in the change and to be validated. (6) In case of change under art. 156, para. 1, t. 6 The applicant shall provide the following documentation: 1. a list of international non-proprietary names and trade names of medicinal products, their pharmaceutical form, content of the active substance in the dosage unit and quantity in the final packaging; 2. a list of procedures for the production, control and storage of medicinal products. (7) In case of change under art. 156, para. 1, t. 7 EAL establishes the circumstances of the requested changes in the commercial registration. There is a proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova for § 13, made in accordance with Article 13. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 1, in the text before t. 1 words.............................................................................. 150 and 151 Under Paragraph 14, there is a proposal of the MP Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission generally supports the text of importers and proposes the following version of § 14, which becomes § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The 160th para is The holder of the manufacturing authorisation shall place on the secondary packaging and, if there is no such.... on the primary packaging of the medicinal products as defined in Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/161, the safety performance under Article 1. 168, para. 8.....................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u138	Thank you. Let's stop here. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 9, which shall become § 10; the version proposed by the Commission for the texts of § 10 which shall become § 11; § 11, which shall become § 12; § 12, which shall become § 13; the version proposed for § 13 by importer which shall become § 14; and the version for § 14 by importer which shall become § 15. Vote 91 MPs: 90, against no, abstention 1. The proposed texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u139	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: Paragraphs 14a and 14b are created: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. The name of Section II in Chapter 5 is hereby amended as follows: Imports of medicinal products. § 14b. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 161, para. 1 in front of the word "Import" the words "Imports" shall be placed in the language "Imports" and/or "Imports" and/or "Imports." The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u140	Thank you. Mrs. Naydenova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u141	Honourable Members of the National Assembly! With this proposal we are making an attempt and offer you to synchronise the Value Added Tax Act with the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, by clearly distinguishing the internal acquisition and the internal delivery, which concern the supply of medicinal products from one Member State to another Member State of the European Union, a distinction from imports and exports, something that only one point in the text currently in force is for domestic supply from exports and imports. Exports and imports concern third countries, not imports and exports at prices between countries within the European Union itself. With this proposal, we are trying to align terminology, which is relevant, as there are regulatory rules for the European Union, in contrast to imports and exports concerning medicinal products from and to third countries, where mostly our exporters must comply with the rules of the third countries concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u142	Thank you. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs. They voted 83 MPs: 13, against 66, abstention 4. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u143	Under § 15 there is a proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 15: 1. A t is created. 1: "1." In para. 1 in front of the word "Import' the words "inside acquisition and/or acquisition' shall be placed. 2. the current text becomes t. 2 of § 15, as in it, in the new content of t. 2 at the end is a comma and an internal acquisition is added. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 16. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 164, para. 1 after the The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u144	Thank you. That's it. A statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u145	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I appeal to Dr. Naydenova to withdraw his proposals, which are identical to the following paragraphs, because they concern terminology which has already been rejected by the National Assembly, both by content and by meaning. There is no need to distinguish between imports and exports to third parties. The texts that you are referring to here refer to quite other mechanisms of the movement of medicinal products. Either way, you will relieve the MPs with a series of unnecessary votes, because you have already seen with the will of the House so far.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u146	Thank you. - What's the line? Any other speeches? I won't. I will put to the vote the unsupported proposal made by the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs. Vote 82 MPs: 16 against 64, abstention 2. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 16. Vote 81 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. I now put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs. Vote 78 MPs: 9 against 66 abstentions 3. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u147	Under Paragraph 16, there is a proposal from the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: In § 16 of the creations art. 164a after the words......................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 164a: Art. 164a. The holder of an import authorisation shall ensure that the packaging is placed on the secondary packaging and, if there is no such package, on the primary packaging of medicinal products as defined in Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/161, the safety performance referred to in art. 168, para. 8 and ensure the introduction of the individual identification mark of each packaging into the registers system in accordance with Delegated Regulation (EU)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u148	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs. Vote 78 MPs: 7 against 68, abstention 3. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 16, which becomes § 17. Vote 82 MPs: 76, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u149	Under § 17 there is a proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17, which shall become § 18. .............................................................................. Article 165 is amended as follows: Art. 165. (1) The holder of an import authorisation from a third country shall submit an application to the EAL upon change of: 1. the person under art. 161, para. 2, p. 1; 2. the list of international non-proprietary names and trade names of medicinal products, their pharmaceutical form, content of the active substance in the dosage unit and quantity in the final packaging; 3. the address of the laboratory under art. 161, para. 2, p. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 4. Commercial registration. (2) To the application under para. 1 shall apply the documents relating to the change set out in art. 165a, and a fee payment document of an amount fixed in the tariff under art. 21, para. 2. Under § 18, there is a proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm Article 3 is replaced by the following: 165a: Art. 165a. (1) In case of change under art. 165, para. 1, t. 1 The applicant shall provide the following documentation: 1. diploma for completed higher education; 2. a contract of employment; 3. documents certifying additional qualifications; 4. A work experience document. (2) The Executive Medicines Agency shall establish the circumstances of the person under art. 161, para. 2, p. 1, when he is a Bulgarian citizen. For non-Bulgarian nationals, the application shall provide a criminal record or equivalent document issued by a competent authority of the country concerned. (3) In case of change under art. 165, para. 1, t. 2 The applicant shall provide the following documentation: 1. a list of international non-proprietary names and trade names of medicinal products, their pharmaceutical form, content of the active substance in the dosage unit and quantity in the final packaging; 2. a list of procedures for the production, control and storage of medicinal products. (4) In case of change under art. 165, para. 1, t. 3 The applicant shall provide the data under art. 162, para. 2, p. 5 and a copy of the contract in the cases under art. 162, para. 2, p. 6. (5) In case of change under art. 165, para. 1, t. 4 The IAL shall establish the circumstances of the requested changes in the commercial registration.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u150	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for the texts of § 17, which shall become § 18 and § 18, which shall become § 19. They voted 86 MPs: 79, none, abstention 7. The proposed texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u151	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man 18a. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 167 all over the text before the word "Imports" the words "indoor acquisition and/or acquisition" are placed in front of the word "Imports." ...... 18b........................................................................ The name of Section III, Chapter 5 is amended as follows: The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u152	Are there any speeches? I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs. Vote 81 MPs: 6 against 70, abstention 5. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u153	According to § 19 there is a proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: In § 19 in the creations art. 195a is finally added to the drugstore registered under art. 19a of this Law The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19. which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 195a: Art. 195a. A person authorised to wholesale medicinal products may not be the holder of a marketing authorisation for medicinal products in a pharmacy issued under this law. According to § 20 there is a proposal of the MP Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20, which shall become § 21: .................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 199 are created. 6 and 7: On the day of submission of the application under para. 1 or 2 EAL sends a request to the Board of Directors of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union to issue a certificate of entry in the National Electronic Register of Members of the Bulgarian Pharmacy Union for Master Pharmacy under art. 197, t. 2, as well as providing information on penalties imposed under the Law on the word organization of Master Pharmacists and the Health Act. (7) The Governing Council shall provide the documents under para. 6 within 5 working days of receipt of the request. Under § 21, there is a proposal of the MP Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 21, which shall become § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 207, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Point 4a is amended as follows: 4a. verify that the medicinal products received by the persons referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1 have been obtained. 4 have not been falsified by verifying the authenticity of medicinal products as defined in Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/161 through the safety indicators referred to in art. 168, para. 8 in the cases set out in Delegated Regulation (EU) 2. A t is created. 4b: 4b. verify the safety performance and deactivate the individual identification mark of the medicinal product before delivering this medicinal product in the cases specified in the regulation under art. 198; 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 8 the final addition shall be made, including the invoices for purchase and sale indicating the international non-proprietary name, the commercial name of the medicinal product, the pharmaceutical form, the quantity of the active substance and the packaging.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u154	Statements?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u155	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u156	Procedure? Okay, you have the floor for procedure, Mr. Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u157	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My proposal, I think, was in accordance with art. 53, is that these three paragraphs should be voted separately and not together. They were read, and before that we had similar cases, precedents in passing the law. I ask that this be voted on.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u158	Thank you. I will put the three paragraphs to the vote separately. Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u159	Dear Mr. Chairman, Members of the National Assembly! Our proposal concerns the newly created art. 195a in § 19, where we expressly insist that: a person who has obtained a wholesale marketing authorisation for medicinal products issued under this law cannot be the holder of a marketing authorisation for medicinal products in a pharmacy. Thus, one of the possibilities for wholesalers to sell medicinal products without prescription via a drugstore which is registered under this law is closed.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u160	Thank you. Are there lines? I can't see. [[Noise and lines from OP.]] I'm gonna have to ask for silence. You guys are too loud. Thank you. Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u161	Dear Mr President, honourable Members, honourable importers of proposals! I have a technical editorial proposal in § 20, Art. 195a, which I want to read here. [[Noise.]] Mr. Chairman, can you hear me?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u162	I can hear you, I'm following you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u163	A person, including its related persons within the meaning of the Commercial Law, who has been authorised to wholesale medicinal products may not be the holder of a marketing authorisation for medicinal products in a pharmacy issued under that law. I'll argue, Mr. Chairman. The Bulgarian pharmaceutical union was actively involved in the reading of the Law in the Commission. He had tabled proposals which practically represented a new drug law in parallel with the importer. Its President, I fully support him, said that the meaning of this law when it is adopted in the Honorable Chamber is to change and optimize drug policy in the Republic of Bulgaria. Optimisation of this policy is also linked to the creation of an inability to monopolistic states in the pharmaceutical market. We will soon have a serious opportunity to discuss other paragraphs in the Law, and within the meaning of this the Pharmaceutical Union held very much in art. 195a proposal to be so edited. What we are doing right now does not mean anything in the whole drug policy, as what I am proposing is now dropping out as an editorial proposal: a person related to the person within the meaning of the Commercial Law. If this editorial proposal will not find citizenship, i.e. legal confidence by voting by honourable Members, we practically close a door in the field that can be easily surrounded by everyone, and thus create whole chains of pharmacies that are practically related to the same person. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u164	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I will put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs. Vote 91 MPs: 8 against 79, abstention 4. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Mihailov to supplement the text in the version proposed by the Commission for the newly established art. 195a. 90 MPs voted: 13 against 73, abstention 4. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 19, which shall become § 20. Vote 91 MPs: 80, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 20, which shall become § 21. Vote 89 MPs: 80 against 1, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 21 which shall become § 22. Vote 87 MPs: 85, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u165	Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission proposes to create a new § 23: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 209b, para. 2 the words "s 4a" shall be replaced by "s 4a" and "s 4b." Proposal of the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Under § 22, there is a proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made in accordance with Article 22. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 22, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 215, para. 2, p. The words "size of' shall be replaced by "size of' and "size of' shall be replaced by "size of'. Under § 23, there is a proposal of the MP Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23, which shall become § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 217 is It's six. ensure the replacement of the safety performance on the secondary packaging and, if there is no such on the primary packaging of medicinal products as defined in Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/161, equivalent to those laid down in art. 168b, para. 3 and ensure the introduction of the identification mark of each packaging into the registers system in accordance with Delegated Regulation (EU)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u166	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 23 with a text under the Commission Report and the version proposed by the Commission for the texts of paragraphs 22 and 23 which shall become paragraphs 24 and 25. Vote 81 MPs: 75, none, abstention 6. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u167	Proposal of the National Representative Valentina Naydenova and a group of Members of Parliament are created § 23a and § 23b: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. The name of Chapter 9 is amended as follows: Exports of medicinal products. .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 217a The following amendments and 1. In para. 1 the word "exports' is replaced by the words "domestic supply and/or export', as well as parallel exports. 2. Al. 3 is amended as follows: For the purposes of this Chapter, the term "exports' shall also be used for intra-Community supplies within the European Union. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u168	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs. Vote 79 MPs: 8 against 69, abstention 2. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u169	Under § 24, there is a proposal of the MP Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24, which shall become § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 217b The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 3, p. 2 the word "Payments" shall be replaced by the word "Payments" and "Payments" shall be replaced by the word "Payments" and the word "Payments" shall be replaced by the word "Payments" shall be 2. In para. 5 shall be added at the end of the day on which the analysis is carried out. 3. A new para is being created. 8. Other than those referred to in paragraph 1 (a) (i) and (ii) of this Article, the following shall be added: 7, right of access to the data in the specialized electronic system under para. 1 have the Ministry of Health, the National Health Insurance Fund and the Council under art. 258, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 4. Previously on AMC's... Paragraphs 8 and 9 become paras 8 and 9 respectively. 9 and Under § 25, there is a proposal of the National Representative Valentina Naydenova and a group of Members of the National Assembly The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 25, which shall become § 27: "The Bible says: The name of Chapter 10 is amended as follows: National pharmacies card. Under § 26, there is a proposal of the MP Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 26, which shall become § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 219 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the words "sanitary and hygienic means' are replaced by "sanitary, sanitary and hygienic materials and biocidal products of the main group 1', "Disinfectants', product-types 1 and 2', and by group 3 "Pest control', product-types 18 and 19 pursuant to Annex V of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 May 2012 on the making available on the market and use of biocidal products (OB, L 167/1 of 27 June 2012).). 2. A new para is being created. 3: The holder of a retail authorisation shall verify the authenticity of medicinal products through the safety indicators referred to in Article 3. 168, para. 8 and deactivate the unique identifier in the registry system. 3. The creation of para. 4. The actions referred to in paragraph 4 shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure referred to in paragraph 1. 3 shall be carried out in accordance with Chapter VI of Delegated Regulation (EU)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u170	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u171	As importers, we believe that two national maps are too much for small Bulgaria on the one hand, we have a National Health Card, on the other hand, we have a National Pharmacy Card that is available. The National Pharmacy Card can safely enter the National Health Card and the card can be unified in which the Minister can safely manage the overall national health system. We believe that our proposal is reasonable. That leaves you to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u172	Thank you. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs. Vote 81 MPs: 15 against 63 abstentions 3. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the texts of paragraphs 24, 25 and 26, which shall become paragraphs 26, 27 and 28. Vote 82 MPs: 75, against 2, abstention 5. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u173	A proposal of the National Representative Slavi Netzov and a group of MPs is created a new paragraph 27: .................................................................................. 220, para. 3 is amended as follows: The Assistant Pharmacy Officer may carry out all activities under art. 219, para. 1 under the control of Master Pharmacist except for the control of activities in the pharmacy related to medicinal products. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal of the National Representative Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs is created § 26a: 26a. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 222 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 6: The health care facilities may disclose pharmacies for the sale of medicinal products and medical devices to citizens under the requirements of this law under the following conditions: 1. to be commercial companies with more than 50 percent state/municipality participation in the capital or in which the State/municipality otherwise exercises a dominant influence; 2. the pharmacy shall be owned by the medical establishment and the turnover of the sales shall be included in the turnover of the medical establishment; 3. ensure continuous access 24 hours a day and 365 days a year. 2. Al. 6 becomes para. 7. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u174	Statements? Mrs. Naydenova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u175	Yes, honourable Members, the Commission did not support this proposal, but there is no other proposal on how to resolve the 24-hour access of the population to medicinal products. Unfortunately, that's a fact. Despite my respect for specialists in the Committee on Health, only we, although specialists in another area, are making this proposal by seeing that hospitals, both municipal and regional, and those with over 50% state or municipal participation in capital, can do so. Undoubtedly, we bind it to 24-hour, 24-hour supply and supply of medicinal products, which means that patients will be able to find and capitalize on something that both in their programs state. Again: only BSP is looking for a way out of this issue and we propose it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u176	Thank you. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Slavi Netsov and a group of MPs. Vote 75 MPs: for no, against 69, abstention 6. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs. Vote 80 MPs: 10, against 67, abstention 3. The offer is not accepted. Colleagues, we're interrupting work for 30 minutes. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u177	Colleagues, we're continuing the meeting. You have the floor, Mrs Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u178	Under § 27, there is a proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made in accordance with Article 27. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 27, which shall become § 29: ........................ 29...................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 222a: Art. 222a. A person who has received a marketing authorisation for medicinal products in a pharmacy may not be the holder of a wholesale marketing authorisation for medicinal products issued under this law. Under § 28 there is a proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made in accordance with Article 28. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 28 be rejected. Under § 29, there is a proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made in accordance with Article 29. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 29 be rejected. Under § 30, there is a proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 30: 1. The introductory sentence is amended as follows: 227 a.m. 2. Creatings Art. 227a is amended as follows: Art. 227a. (1) The needs of the population from access to medicinal products provided by pharmacies and drugstores shall be determined on a territorial basis through the National Pharmacy Card. (2) The National Pharmacy Card shall be an integral part of the National Health Card and shall be drawn up according to the rules of its drawing up. (3) The National Pharmacy Card shall not include pharmacies opened under art. 222, para. 4. 3. The created art. 227b "227e" is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 30: 30. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 227a-227f: Art. 227a. (1) The needs of the population from access to medicinal products provided in pharmacies shall be determined on a territorial basis by means of a National Pharmacy Card. (2) The National Pharmacy Card shall not include pharmacies discovered in accordance with art. 222, para. 4. (3) The National Pharmacy Card shall determine the districts, municipalities and settlements with a shortage of open pharmacies by carrying out an analysis of the access of the population to pharmacies which carry out activities under: 1. distribution of medicinal products for home treatment, paid in full or in part by the NHIF under the conditions and under the terms of art. 45, para. 17 of the Health Insurance Act; 2. preparation of medicinal products; 3. release of drugs containing medicinal products within the meaning of the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors; 4. distribution of medicinal products to war veterans; 5. distribution of medicinal products to military invalids and military victims; 6. the granting of prescription medicinal products which are not paid by public funds; 7. granting of medicinal products without a prescription Art. 227b. (1) The national pharmacy card shall be made on the basis of regional pharmacies cards. (2) For the development of the Regional Pharmacy Card the Minister of Health shall appoint a commission for each district comprising the Regional Health Inspectorate, two representatives of the Regional Health Insurance Fund, two representatives of the Regional College of the Bulgarian Pharmacy Union, one representative of the Regional College of the Bulgarian Association of Assistant Pharmacy, one representative of the representative organizations for the protection of the rights of patients recognised by art. 86c of the Health Act, and one representative of each municipality in the respective area. The Regional Governor shall be the President of the Commission. (3) The representatives of the municipalities under para. 2 are determined in accordance with the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration. (4) The representative of the representative organizations for the protection of the rights of the patients under para. 2 in each of the regional committees shall be elected and released in general by representative organisations. (5) The regional pharmacies card shall be drawn up according to a model and in order determined by a methodology established by the Minister of Health. (6) Each regional committee shall submit to the Minister of Health the regional pharmacies card drawn up and all primary information on the basis of which it was drawn up. Art. 227c. (1) The district pharmacy card shall contain: 1. data on demographic structure and consumption of medicinal products for home treatment by the population in the area; 2. the number, types of activities and distribution of open pharmacies in the area; 3. the number of working Master Pharmacists and Assistant Pharmacists in open pharmacies on the territory of the district. (2) To the Regional Pharmacy Card under para. 1 shall apply an opinion drawn up by order and criteria set out in the methodology under art. 227b, para. 5, on the necessary minimum number of pharmacies per type of activity under art. 227a, para. 3 as well as for the required minimum number of working Master Pharmacists and Assistant Pharmacists in pharmacies, which are determined according to the needs of the population in the relevant area. Art. 227. (1) The National Pharmacy Card shall be drawn up by a national commission appointed by order of the Minister of Health, who shall be President of the Commission. (2) The Commission shall include the Manager of the NHIF, the Chairman of the National Council for Prices and Reimbursement of Medicinal Products, two representatives of the Executive Agency for Medicines, of which one is the Executive Director of the Executive Agency for Medicines, the Director of the National Centre for Public Health and Analysis, the Chairman of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, two representatives of the Ministry of Health, three representatives of the Bulgarian Pharmacy Union, one representative of the Bulgarian Association of Assistant Pharmacists and one representative of representative organisations for the protection of patients' rights recognised by art. 86c of the Health Act. Art. 227e. (1) The national pharmacy card shall contain: 1. the district pharmacy maps; 2. the specific minimum needs of the population from access to medicinal products provided in pharmacies and to the types of activities under art. 227a, para. 3 by districts, municipalities and settlements; 3. distribution of open pharmacies by population by districts, municipalities and settlements; 4. graphical indication of the open pharmacies on the map of the country according to the type of activities performed under art. 227a, para. 3; 5. analysis of the access of the population to medicinal products provided in pharmacies by type of activities under art. 227a, para. 3 by districts, municipalities and settlements 6. determination of the districts, municipalities and settlements in which the analysis under point is carried out. 5 there is a shortage of open pharmacies by type of activities under art. 227a, para. 3. (2) The analysis under para. 1, t. 5 shall be carried out in accordance with the order and criteria set out in the methodology under art. 227b, para. 5, and necessarily include an assessment of the specific minimum needs of the population from access to medicinal products provided in pharmacies and to the types of activities under art. 227a, para. 3, as well as the distribution of open pharmacies by population. Art. 227f. (1) The National Pharmacy Card shall be validated by a decision of the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Health. (2) The national pharmacies card shall be updated as necessary in the cases specified by the methodology under art. 227b, para. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u179	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. We're moving on to discussion. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you are, Professor Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In the next few minutes, we will vote on some of the most important proposals of the importer, which are related to the National Pharmacy Card. First, I'll read the editorial suggestions I have. Please note them. In.............................................................................. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 222a. "The proposal sounds like this: "Person and its related persons within the meaning of the Commercial Law, which received a marketing authorisation for medicinal products in a pharmacy, cannot be the holder of a wholesale marketing authorisation for medicinal products issued under this law. "This is the first editorial proposal. The second editorial proposal.. Let me get to it, as there are many proposals of fellow Members of the National Assembly.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 227b, t. 2: For the development of the Regional Pharmacy Card the Minister of Health appoints a commission for each area, which includes the Regional Health Inspectorate, two representatives of the Regional Health Insurance Fund, two representatives of the Regional College of the Bulgarian Pharmacy Union... I'll argue a little later. [[Replication by rapporteur Daniela Daritkova.]] I'll justify it, Dr. Daritkova. You're very aggressive today. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 227c, t. 1: This is my editorial proposal - the disease of the population and the consumption of medicines for home treatment by the population in the district. Art. 227d, t. 2 in the same way.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u181	Mr. Mihaylov, just to ask: do you have them in writing, then give them to me, if not, please repeat it by item. 1 in art. 227c, since I couldn't make a note?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u182	"Danny for demographic structure, population disease and consumption of medicines for home treatment by the population in the area. " Art. 227d, t. 2: In the composition of the Commission I shall not read it, so that I do not waste the time of the honourable Members of the Drug Executive Agency, the National Center of Public Health, the National Association of Municipalities, two representatives..., three representatives of the Pharmaceutical Union, two representatives of the Bulgarian Medical Association. Art. 227e. Add after t. 2, p. 3: "Analysis of the disease of the population by districts, municipalities and settlements. "
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u183	Once again, tell me where that is.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u184	Point 3, Art. 227e: "The disease of the population by districts, municipalities and settlements."
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u185	It's like a new t. Three?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u186	As a new point, then down others are renumbered.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u187	Yeah, I get it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u188	Now I'm gonna try to argue. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am not going to talk about my first editorial proposal, it is similar to what I argued a little earlier in terms of wholesale trade, and I think my colleagues have paid attention to this. What were my arguments? This creates a prerequisite not to create an opportunity for the hidden acquisition of chains of pharmacies by the same person with associated persons within the meaning of the Commercial Law. The main part of my speech is related to the implementation of the project "National Pharmacy Card" which is extremely important to us. In this sense, I would like to say a few words in this direction. First of all, colleagues who have a longer internship in the field of health, such as most of our colleagues in the Health Commission, know what the number of pharmacies in the last three decades is and how they have increased greatly, but with complete debalance in the country's territory. I would like to share with the esteemed audience and those who are listening to us outside the audience that in over 70 municipalities of the Republic of Bulgaria currently there are no pharmacies at all, but in large district cities they are in a huge amount without any meaning, and they are breaking basic principles that structure the pharmacies network in all countries of the European Union. This measure is based on several criteria: distance of pharmacy to pharmacy and population. I can share with you, which is not a fact of any serious secrecy, that in the territory of Denmark, which is given by all countries as an example in the field of health, that there are only 270 pharmacies on 5 million Denmark, colleagues, and in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, under the shortage that I have quoted you a short time ago, there are currently over 6500 pharmacies, with a total number of pharmacists currently around 6600. That is, the whole idea, which will later develop for the creation of pharmacies with a second and third address, cannot practically be realized, despite the mooring talk that pharmaceutical faculties produce footage every year, as there is no incentive for pharmacists to go and work in small settlements. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In this sense, in order to solve the problem of drug policy in the Republic of Bulgaria this law had to say this at first reading and at second reading, to be very seriously thought out in cooperation with representatives of the Pharmaceutical Union, so that it is not solved simply in a piece at the moment. An authorisation regime is being established, however, which will not actually solve the problem of supplying Bulgarian citizens with medicines, and it will remain in the same way difficult until now. [[(Strength noise and lines from GERB:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u189	I gave the signal, colleagues. I don't think there'll be that much discussion further, but get your head in the game, Professor Mihaylov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u190	I think we should keep the good tone when we resolve such important issues and be sufficiently parliamentary collegiate. In a few sentences, I will finish my speech. [[Voices from GERB: "Eee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u191	Shorter.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u192	I want to share with you that a national regulation for the detection, existence and number of pharmacies must be introduced in every settlement. Until this thing happens, virtually all the clauses of this law and the entire National Pharmacy Card will not help the nation to gain easier access to medicines. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u193	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Please stick to the time limits. First of all, should I ask if there are any lines? I can't see. Come in for a speech, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u194	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Undoubtedly the need for a National Pharmacy Card no one contests it, must have it. Unfortunately, however, here, as with the National Health Card, we are allowing a major deficit for what do we need this map for? This map is to identify the needs of Bulgarian citizens from pharmacies, their geographical location and where there is no means to reveal pharmacies. Here we repeat the bad things from the National Health Card. We find out where there is a shortage of medical care, where there is no GPS, to call it in general, and so far. We do nothing to make available medical care, that is to increase the number of Jeeps or pharmacies. So I think we need to find a mechanism that should be offered to us by the Minister of Health, that we have imperative ways and parameters to provoke the creation of pharmacies where there is a shortage. Secondly, the term "day pharmacy" is not commented in the National Pharmacy Card. I think he should be commented because the 24-hour pharmacy is something very important. As we have 24-hour emergency medical centers, Bulgarian citizens need access to medicines 24/7. That is why I am making the following proposal............................................................................................. 227e, one, points 5b and 5c, after the generals and settlements, a comma, including round-the-clock pharmacies, i.e. the National Pharmacy Card to establish the minimum need for 24-hour pharmacies where they are needed and to find the means to cause their disclosure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u195	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. - What's the line? Statements? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u196	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will make a very brief statement in connection with the negotiators. I would like to draw attention to the audience that personally everyone who is following the text will ask the question of our colleagues from the Coalition for Bulgaria and in the face of Mrs. Naydenova, who just came out and said that right now our bill does not need a health map of the pharmacies, and all the pharmacies and what we offer can enter the National Health Card. A little while ago, it made a pretty big impression on me. The other thing I would like to highlight is that, in relation to the proposals that have been made, Mr President, this is to you, I cannot accept in any case that this could be an editorial change, what has just been quoted, for the creation of 24-hour pharmacies. I think that philosophy and the place of these proposals were between first and second readings, where they could have been made and argued accordingly. Here in this House, I believe that this is actually not right to be put to the vote. As I expect from Mrs. Nayden's reply or personal explanation, I would therefore like to ask that her statement be taken out where she said that the National Health Card should include pharmacies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u197	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Personal explanation? Here's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u198	Since I was mentioned on purpose, my answer to Dr. Ivanov is as follows. Our proposal concerns the National Pharmacy Card to be included in the National Health Card. If you remember, back in the day when we were looking at the Law on Medical Institutions, we had a proposal for the National Health Card to enter the Health Act, as there is also the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. Unfortunately, this small element has not been reported by the colleague. We are not against the National Pharmacy Card, but it should enter and the card should be a common one, perhaps the name should be another, so that the Minister of Health can have a comprehensive view of the healthcare system. Something else, we offer not only pharmacies to enter, we offer even drugstores registered under this law to enter there for a number of other reasons. One more thing. The proposals my colleagues are currently making are very reasonable because the problem of day-to-day pharmacies continues and it is right that the pharmacies regime should be reflected in any title card. Because why do we need pharmacies, even if there is a condition that there is a network distributed according to this, this and that when the working hours of these pharmacies are not 24/7 or at certain hours they have the opportunity to work. Obviously, we should also tie this card to working hours.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u199	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. You've come to the point, but anyway, we're continuing with the speeches. Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova, for your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u200	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I ask you really not to be confused in this House that in the Health Commission they do not know what they are doing, because here colleagues have expressed those who fundamentally mix concepts and contradict each other. The National Health Card was established in the Law on Medical Institutions as a prerequisite for identifying the needs, on the one hand, to regulate the way in which contracts were concluded with the National Health Insurance Fund, that is to say, all medical institutions present in the National Health Card, have the right to work with the Fund, that was the point in some ways, and at the same time to identify the deficits and possibly with certain policies to potentiate the acquisition of specialties that are deficient, or the distribution of medical institutions from different levels of medical care and finding them in areas where there is no access. The meaning of the Pharmacy Card is completely different. I would like to emphasise that the Law was passed on 6 March. The deadline was maximum, you have had the opportunity to make proposals and I think it is a sign of a bad parliamentary culture here in this House to make editorial proposals that are meaningful in their nature and at the same time are not sufficiently well motivated. Because I do not understand why representatives of the Bulgarian Medical Union will participate in the preparation of the National Pharmacy Card, as the representatives of the Bulgarian Pharmacy Union have no relation and are not involved in the development of the National Health Card. In addition, if the needs of pharmacies and access to medicinal products are identified, the Minister of Medicine may indicate clearly and describe whether there are 24-hour pharmacies on the territory of the area concerned. This will all be in the possibilities, as we have determined, the meaning, the development, definition and functioning of the National Pharmacy Card. I would therefore like to stress that the Health Commission has been absolutely tolerant and open to all proposals, you could have made them during the Commission's meeting, but here in plenary, making such changes does not seem reasonable, and at the same time I do not consider them sufficiently motivated and rationally refined.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u201	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. For a line? Here you are, Professor Mikhailov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u202	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Doctor Daritkova, if you can claim that the National Health Card and the National Pharmacy Card are not organically linked and should not be in direct symbiosis, I believe that you do not realize the importance of the health problem in the Republic of Bulgaria and all its parameters at the moment. It is clear that when a National Pharmacy Card is created, apart from the demographic analysis which the importer has indicated when he proposed this law, the disease of the population should also be taken into account, and it is the subject of interest, the competence and qualification of the specialized bodies and their representatives in society, such as the Medical Union. Last night I spoke with Dr. Madzharov very calmly and very seriously about this matter. He fully agreed with my arguments and I believe that there is nothing scary, nothing wrong with involving representatives of the Medical Union in the elaboration of the National and Regional Pharmacy Cards, as these are two mutually related concepts. As for the latter, not being able to make editorial proposals, I can point you out from the Stenograms of the National Assembly many times such editorial proposals from your parliamentary group, which we have never challenged and voted on. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u203	Thank you, Professor Mihailov. Do you want a hole, Mrs. Daritkova? No. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the discussion on these paragraphs. I will try, it will be quite difficult to sum up the vote, but I would accept a slightly wider interpretation of editorial proposals. I believe that the proposals made by Professor Mihailov and Mr. Yordanov can be interpreted, and as such I will unite them so that we can make fewer votes. But I think it's appropriate, given that they are made and motivated, to accept or reject them by voting. I therefore propose that we make the following votes: First, under § 29, Art. 222a, there was a proposal from Professor Mihailov... [[Heckling]] Yes, § 27, which becomes § 29 in the version of the Commission and I am now commenting on Professor Mihailov's proposal, which is to the new § 29 in fact, in the version of the Commission. He proposes to add the text:.. and related persons within the meaning of the Commercial Law. Did I get that right, Professor Mihailov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u204	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u205	I shall put this editorial proposal to the vote first. Vote 95 MPs: 17 against 15, abstention 63. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 27, which shall become § 29, in the version of the Commission. Vote 96 MPs: 83 against 11, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote § 28 and § 29 for which the Commission proposes to reject them. Vote 92 MPs: 83 against 2, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. We move on to § 30 and I put first to the vote the proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova. Vote 94 MPs: 15 against 70 abstentions 9. The offer is not accepted. I will unite two of Professor Mihailov's proposals. Please, Professor Mikhailov, if there's anything wrong with my transmission, give me a sign. Art. 30, Art. 227b, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 227d, para. 2 after: The Bulgarian pharmaceutical union is added to the two representatives of the Bulgarian medical union. [[Heckling]] There are others, but for the representatives of the Bulgarian Medical Union the two proposals were here. I shall put this proposal to the vote. They voted 99 MPs: 17 against 69, abstention 13. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the proposal to the vote in art. 227c, para. 1, t. 1, after: the demographic structure is added comma and the text of the population and consumption disease is added and continues:................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Is it correct? Vote 97 MPs: 16 against 70, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. There are two more votes left. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 227d, para. 1, to create a new t. 3. Here I will ask Professor Mihailov to help me, or my colleagues, as it is added: the disease of the population and the disease of the population by districts, municipalities and settlements. Please, vote procedure. Vote 95 MPs: 15 against 70 abstentions 10. The offer is not accepted. And the last vote on these proposals is in art. 227d, para. 1, t. At the end of the period, add the letters "b" and "b" (b) to "b" (b) and "in" (c) to the end: "c" (d) including day-to-day" (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) They voted 92 MPs: 13, against 61, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. And we're getting to the last vote. I shall put to the vote § 30 in the version of the Commission. Vote 94 MPs: 80, against 10, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u206	Under § 31, there is a proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made in accordance with Article 31. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure to the organization and activities of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 31: ........................ 31...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 228 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1, t. 7a canceled. 2. In para. 5, t. 1 words................................................................................. 1 "S 7a" is replaced by "S" is replaced by "S" is replaced by "S" is 3. Paragraph 7 is amended as follows: On the day of submission of the application under para. 1 or 5 EAL sends a request in an official order to the relevant RGI for a hygienic conclusion. The regional health inspection shall issue the hygienic conclusion within 14 days of the receipt of the request and shall send it in service to the IAL. Upon receipt of the hygienic conclusion in the EAL, the period referred to in art. 229, para. 2 stops running. Under § 32, there is a proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made in accordance with Article 32. 83. para. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 32 be rejected. Under § 33 there is a proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 33 be rejected. Under § 34, there is a proposal from the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made in accordance with Article 34. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 34 be rejected. Under § 35 there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 35, which shall become § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 234 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 5. The return of purchased medicinal products shall be prohibited. 2. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6. 3. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 7 and in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 6a (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 4. So far, the Al. 7 becomes para. 8 And in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 6 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011: The The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 36, which shall become § 33. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 37 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u207	Let's pause here for discussion. Hey, guys, any speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote, and now I hope I'll correctly list them. I put to the vote the following: § 31 in the version of the Commission, rejecting paragraphs 32, 33 and 34, § 35, which becomes § 32 in the version of the Commission, § 36, which becomes § 33 by importer, and § 37, which is proposed to be rejected. Vote 81 MPs: 76 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u208	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: ####37a: #######################################################################################################################:############################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################### sssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Art. 237 is amended as follows: Art. 237. Upon termination of the activity of the person authorised to open a pharmacy, medicinal products and medical devices may be sold to persons authorised to wholesale or retail medicinal products in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 38, which shall become § 34. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: They are created § 38a and 38b: "Sixteen" and "sixteen" and "sixteen" and "sixteen" and "sixteen" and "sixteen" and "sixteen" and "sixteen" and "sixteen" and "sixteen" and "sixteen" and "sixteen" and "sixteen" and "sixteen" and "sixteen." The name of Section I. In Chapter 12a is amended as follows: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 258 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in the first sentence, the words "Towards the Minister of Health" shall be created, replaced by the words "Towards the IAL" shall be established; (b) sentences 2 and 3 are deleted; 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The composition and activities of the Council shall be determined by the Rules of Procedure of the IAL. 3. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The prices and reimbursement of medicinal products shall be determined by the IAL and validated by the Minister of Health. 4. Allinei 4 and 5 are canceled. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u209	Colleagues, speeches on both proposals? I can't see. We will proceed to the vote, but it seems to me that I must put the three proposals to the vote separately. Proposal of the National Representative Valentina Naydenova for the creation of § 37a. Please vote procedure. Vote 75 MPs: 5 against 65, abstention 5. The offer is not accepted. Now I'm voting § 38, which becomes § 34, by importer. 70 MPs voted: 67 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. The next vote is on the proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs for the establishment of § 38a and § 38b.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u210	Please, vote procedure. Vote 77 MPs: 5 against 67, abstention 5. The proposal to create new paragraphs 38a and 38b is rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u211	Under § 39, there is a proposal of the MP Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 39, which shall become § 35: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 259 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1, t. 4 words in agreement with the Board of Experts shall be replaced by a follow-up opinion of the Board, and after the words.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 2. In para. 4 the words "changes" shall be replaced by "changes," maintenance of reimbursive status and assessment of health technologies." Under § 40, there is a proposal of the MP Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 40, which shall become § 36: ................................ 36.................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 259b the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1, t. 8 the word.......................................................................................................... 2. The creation of para. 4. In the case of a medicinal product in hospital packaging according to the Marketing Authorisation, an application for a procedure under art. 259, para. 4, The Council shall rule in time by one second shorter than those laid down in para. 1 and 2. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: They are created § 40a and 40b: 40a. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 260 the words "the Court" shall be replaced by "the Court of Justice of the European § 40b. Art. 261 is amended as follows: Art. 261. (1) The staff and officials of the IAL shall not disclose the circumstances and facts which have become known to them during or on the occasion of the performance of their duties and contractual obligations under this law, except at the written request of a public authority, where provided for by law. (2) In relation to their obligations under para. 1 persons shall sign a declaration on a template approved by the Executive Director of the IAL under the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u212	Thank you. Statements? There aren't any. I put to the vote § 39, which becomes § 35 and § 40, which becomes § 36. Vote 80 MPs: 79, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. [[(The National Representative Georgi Svilenski wants a procedure, heading for the stands. Replies from GERB: We have a vote, another vote.]] We have another proposal to vote on. [[Noise and lines.]] There's still a vote to be made. [[Reply of National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] No, I won't give you the floor, because there's another one to vote on. What language should I tell you? [[Radio, laughter and applause by GERB and OP.]] We are voting on a proposal by the MP Valentina Naydenova, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 78 MPs: 2 against 73, abstention 3. The offer is not accepted. What do you want now?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u213	Dear Mr. Chairman, first of all, I want you to behave a little more politely and not to say to me, "What do you want? I want what's in the book. Two minutes ago, one hour from the end of the meeting, I want a 15-minute recess on behalf of a parliamentary group. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] If you don't want to give this break, in exactly three minutes, I'm going to ask for a name check. Thank you. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u214	Unfortunately, there is less than one hour until the end of the meeting and I cannot give you by the Rules of Procedure. [[(Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) Claps by GERB. Replies of the National Representative Georgi Svilenski.)]] I can't give you the requested rest. As regards your claims, paragraphs 39 and 40 were read earlier, as well as the proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova. You asked in the procedure of these three votes to interrupt them after the second and to vote the third. That's why I denied you the right to procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u215	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u216	Is the procedure in the manner of conduct?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u217	No. Dear Mr. Chairman, I propose that the procedure.. the working time of the parliament be extended until the adoption of the Law. [[Laughter at GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u218	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u219	There's been one procedure already, hasn't there?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u220	That's right. In connection with the procedure, Mr President, and with the forthcoming vote, I propose a name check. Thank you. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u221	It's procedure two here. I shall put to the vote in order to submit the procedures. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u222	First the name check.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u223	Okay, name check.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u224	Please, colleagues, take your seats. Adlen Shukri Shevked - absent Albena Vladimirova Naydenova - absent Alexander Dimitrov Panov - absent Alexander Ivanov Matsurev - here Alexander Koychev Ivanov - here Alexander Mairov Siddi - absent Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov - absent Alexander Petrov Alexandrov - here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Tihomirov Simov - here Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Anastas Marinov Popdimitrov - here Angel Iliev Isaev - absent Andrian Ivanov Raykov - here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anna Nikolaeva Slavova - absent Anton Konstantinov Kutev - absent Asya Atanasova Peeva - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov - here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Bogdan Emilov Botsev - here Boris Vangelov Borisov - absent Boris Petkov Kirchev - here Boris Yankov Yachev - absent Borislav Ivanov Borisov - here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva - absent Burhan Ilyazov Abase - here Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - absent Valentin Georgiev Lambev - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Mirchov Milushev - here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova - here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - here Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Vasil Tsvetkov - here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov - absent Velislava Ivanova Krasteva - absent Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova - absent Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva - here Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - absent Veska Marinova Nencheva - here Violeta Ruseva Zheleva - here Vladimir Slavchev Valev - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - absent Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Stoyanova Zhelyazkova - here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov - here Georgi Georgiev Stoilov - absent Georgi Dimitrov Andreev - absent Georgi Evdokiev Markov - absent Georgi Zaprev Dinev - here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov - here Georgi Kolev Kolev - absent Georgi Nikolov Vergiev - here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - here Georgi Tenev Stankov - here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - here Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova - absent Daniel Petkov Yordanov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - absent Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova - here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova - here Danka Evstatieva Zidarova-Lurtova - here Dean Stoyanov Stanchev - absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Petrov Taskov - here Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Angelova Todorova - here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - absent Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - absent Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov - absent Dimitar Boychev Petrov - absent Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - here Dimitar Ivanov Avramov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev - absent Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov - absent Dobrin Nenov Danev - absent Donka Dimova Simeonova - absent Dora Ilieva Yankova - here Dora Stoyanova Hristova - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Evgeni Genchev Budinov - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Evdokia Slavchova Asenova - here Elena Stefanova Pesheva - here Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov - here Emil Marinov Hristov - here Emil Seraphimov Tonchev - here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Errol Osman Mehmed - here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Brought to you by WITH S2 Written In The Heavens Subbing Squad Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - here Ivan Dimov Ivanov - absent Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - absent Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - absent Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva - here Ivo Angelov Hristov - absent Iglika Ivanova-Subeva - here Ilian Angelov Timchev - here Imren Ismetova Mehmedova - absent Irena Metodieva Dimova - here Irena Todorova Anastasova - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Ihsan Halil Hakke - absent Yordan Apostolicov - here Yordan Iliev Yordanov - absent Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev - here Kalin Nikolov Popovski - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - here Konstantin Veselinov Popov - absent Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - absent Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Mitkov Subev - here Krasimir Hristov Jankov - absent Christian Ivanov Vigenin - here Cristina Maximova Sidorova - here Krum Kostadinov Zarkov - here Krastina Nikolova Taskova - absent Lalo Georgiev Kirilov - here Lilyana Drumeva Radeva - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev - here Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - here Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova - absent Maria Yordanova Ilieva - here Maria Yordanova Tsvetkova - absent Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Vladimirov Tinchev - here Martin Stefanov Obreshkov - here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Milen Vassilev Mihov - absent Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov - here Mitko Kostadinov Polychronov - here Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov - absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova - here Nelly Ruskova Petrova - absent Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer - absent Nikola Iliev Dinkov - here Nikolay Asenov Tishev - absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - absent Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov - here Nikolay Dimitrov Penev - here Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov - here Nikolay Krastev Boshkov - absent Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov - here Nona Krasteva Yotova - here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Pavel Dimitrov Shopov - absent Petar Georgiev Kanev - here Peter Hristov Petrov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev - absent Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Adlen Shevked is here, Alexander Sabanov, Krasimir Yankov, Georgi Kolev. One hundred twenty-three. There's a quorum. Let's move on. I put to the vote the proposal of my colleague to work until the end of the vote on the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. 140 MPs voted: 48, against 74, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. Dear colleagues, I give the floor to Minister Marinov to introduce us to the objective environment, which is at the request of colleagues from BSP for Bulgaria. Only information will be given. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u225	Madam President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I will brief you on the situation of yesterday's protest, which was held in the area of...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u226	Closer to the microphones, Minister. [[Replication of Valentina Naydenova by BSP for Bulgaria "Not since yesterday, but from the beginning of the protest"]] Take it easy, guys!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u227	I will brief you on the information related to the protest held yesterday in front of the Council of Ministers. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria From that day!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u228	Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall! Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u229	The Sofia Directorate of Interior has acquired information about the possible holding of a mass event in Sofia on the town of Sofia at 2 Dondukov Blvd. in front of the building of the Presidency. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u230	Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u231	About 4:45 a.m. on yesterday. [[Replications by National Representative Georgi Svilenski]] a gathering of citizens started in the area of the Presidency building, which around 1900 have moved before the National Assembly 2, in the area of the square "Independence," and in front of the building of the Council of Ministers. About 19.30 p.m. started a procession by route: Blvd. Alexander Dondukov, street.Georgi Sava Rakovski, street. Oborishte, boulevard.Vasil Levski, boulevard Tsar Liberator. After the speaker's speech, around 21.00, participants in the event started lighting torches, smokes and fireworks [[Replications by National Representative Stoyan Mirchev]] by launching pyrotechnic missiles in the direction of the building's facade of the Council of Ministers. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] After about an hour on the facade of the building of National Assembly 2, four persons have climbed, who have stretched a transparant about 5 m long and the inscription is for sale!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u232	Mr. Secretary, just one second. [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] Mr. Svilensky... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Calm down, Mr. Mirchev! Don't take that tone! [[Reply from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev.]] Don't take that tone! Let the Minister give information, it is clear that the information that is now contained will be there after that. [[Noise and lines by MP Stoyan Mirchev and GERB.]] Please behave in the hall! I'll ask the Quaestors to take you out! Calm down! [[Reply from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev.]] Calm down, Mr. Mirchev, and don't be a victim, please! Take it easy! Let's hear what the minister has to say, and he'll tell us about the case that... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria and GERB.]] Colleagues, wait till we hear what the minister has to say! Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u233	At the drop of the persons around 22.00 hours, the transmitter, which was placed by them above the building of the National Assembly, falls, at this time a separate group of protesters began to throw objects, stones and bottles at the employees of the Ministry of Interior, guarding the security area of the building of the National Assembly 2, and located at its central entrance, where there are currently numerous representatives of the media, organizers of the event and protesters. All these actions were also broadcast online by the media present there. At the same time, two powerful IEDs were also detonated. One of the protesters present at the scene most likely falls as a result of the explosive devices being blown up, and in the attempt of two uniformed police officers to check his condition and to assist him, the same are attacked by the protesters, as part of them are headed for the entrances of the National Assembly. That's where they start hitting and kicking another uniformed cop, as well as breaking down the building door. Multiple bottles, envelopes and boxes of red paint and liquid, smelling like acetone, were thrown away. Two employees of the Ministry of Interior suffered one with a cut wound from glass in the head area and one with injuries to the body due to cast hard objects and impact. Measures have been taken to push protesters out of the security zone before the National Assembly 2 in order to protect the integrity of the building representing the National Assembly institution and the possible non-invasion of protesters in it. In this case, pre-trial proceedings were initiated, the relevant investigative proceedings were also carried out and a total of six persons were detained, of whom one was directly involved in the demolition of the door of the National Assembly 2. In addition, seven additional persons who were present and who committed the appropriate unlawful acts in front of the National Assembly's building were detained following investigative action on 15 July 2020. The work on the case continues, the materials have been reported to the competent prosecutor's office. At 15.00 Sofia Directorate of Internal Affairs will be given a briefing with the release of relevant information concerning the course of the protest. As early as yesterday, the Ministry of Interior, in particular the Sofia Directorate of Interior as a competent territorial structure, provided information that we are receiving constant operational signals on various channels for possible escalation and presence of groups of provocators to seek confrontation with the police or to seek attack on buildings representing the institutions of the Republic of Bulgaria. Unfortunately, this information yesterday has been confirmed, as a result of which the Sofia Directorate of the Interior has taken appropriate action for today, but I would still like to address all citizens who are going to protest to do so peacefully, the police are there to help those who are protesting to make sure that they are able to protest peacefully. We don't have a case where police officers get help on the ground and it's not on the ground. We have given a lot of help to protesters citizens who have had health problems, who have fainted, who are looking for help from the police, there are ambulances provided, there is rapid communication with the organizers. But I say again: the signals are disturbing and you can see that it is already confirmed that there is an organization to seek escalation of the protest itself. The fact that two homemade explosive devices have been fired on site is pyrotechnic means that, when they enter the human body, have the opportunity to cause serious injuries even death. It depends on where they fall, it is clear enough that a targeted confrontation is being sought for disturbing public order and attacking police officers who guard public order. With regard to the case you are talking about, information has been given several times. The Director of the Sofia Directorate shall carry out the appropriate inspection, which will be completed as soon as possible. At this time I cannot give you information about the course of the inspection as it is still running. But I would like to address everyone and say that police officers are not there to be violated, attacked and provoked. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] They are there to protect the public order, to protect the lives and health of the citizens there, to protect the institutions and buildings that represent the institutions of the Republic of Bulgaria, because I believe that this is extremely important, they are there despite the fear in their families that they may suffer in such a situation, but they are there to fulfill their official duty. I would like to address all those who allow themselves to harm a police officer who stands against them: many of them are wearing yellow vests as a gesture of kindness and show us that they are there to help them, not harm them. I want you to stay out of the defense equipment with weapons, because it's not that kind of equipment the officer's equipment is designed to protect him from the attacks on him. I want to objectively reflect the situation so that no suggestion is made that when the police are provoked and by law has the right and application of physical force and aids, it is said that it beats. When a police officer is in danger, the law allows him to use physical force and appropriate assistance. In this particular situation, each of the officers there is authorized by law and, at his discretion, whether he feels threatened, whether his privacy is violated, which the law also gives him, whether he has threatened citizens, determines to what extent to use the powers given to him by law. All police officers are instructed to refrain as much as possible, not to succumb to provocations and to use physical force and assistance only in cases where all other steps are exhausted. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u234	Thank you, dear Minister. Thanks for being a part of this. The way you're leading it? Mr. Vigenin, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u235	Thank you, Madam President. Maybe we got off on the wrong foot this morning. We called Minister Marinov to comment on the cases of police violence from the second day of the protest. [[GERB lines.]] We understand that it is more convenient to talk about the case than yesterday, yes, it is important! We condemn the violence exercised by a certain group of lumpens who intended to discredit the protest, but we did not hear at least one word regretfully about what happened the second day. I can't figure out how these cops defend themselves against a fallen man pulled from under the columns that they kick all over the body, including the head?! I understand that the Minister should protect the police and the people who are subordinate to him, but how come he didn't have a little conscience to apologize, regret it, say it wouldn't happen like this anymore? How long is it gonna take to do an investigation if there's video footage, there's names, there's faces?!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u236	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Vigenin!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u237	I am addressing you, Madam President, because you have in no way let the Minister know that he is here not to concern us with yesterday's incident, which is not to be underestimated, but that one person has been unconscious for more than two days. How can such an approach and such an attitude be at all?! We also call on people not to turn against the police, but we insist that the Minister and the police behave adequately in the same way and encourage citizens to protest peacefully and not with this attitude to create additional tensions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u238	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. The minister said there was an investigation on the case, and as soon as he's ready, we'll invite him back here to let us know what the investigation showed. Mr. Chenchev, you too.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u239	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Madam President, my procedure is with you. My procedure is the way I conduct it, but it's actually the way I beat it. You admitted... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u240	I didn't beat anyone, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u241	She's with you. Thank God you didn't beat anyone up and that's not your job.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u242	Of course it's not my job. Thank you for noticing.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u243	But since there was an obvious procedure on the matter of the Minister's hearing, why didn't you pay attention to him staying in the Chamber? Did you hide it? Are you hiding the Minister? [[Comments from GERB: "What is the procedure? "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u244	Mr. Chenchev, just to let you know that...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u245	It is your right to ask the Minister to stay and listen. How long are you gonna hide it like this? [[The speaker speaks with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u246	Mr. Chenchev, the procedure was for the Minister to come to give information There are rules on which you can duly request any of the procedures, Mr. Chenchev. Here you go, now.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u247	Madam President, I'm running out of time, you're interrupting me and you have to compensate me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u248	I'll give you one more minute on top.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u249	Okay. We have a case of a brutally beaten Bulgarian citizen who was handcuffed and beaten. That's why we want to establish the truth, you know, and you had to leave the minister to answer?!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u250	Mr. Chenchev, you read the Rules of Procedure and you know the procedure under these Rules? The minister said there's an investigation going on, and so are we... [[People's Representative Ivan Chenchev speaks in off microphones.]] Okay. Thank you, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u251	This is the procedure for you, okay? Because I told you: it's not in the way of conduct, the way of beating is like this water. [[Noise and lines from GERB: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u252	Thank you. Mr. Svilenski, how do you conduct yourself? Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u253	Procedure not in the manner of conduct. Madam President, until the Minister has escaped from the National Assembly building, I am making a procedure to come immediately and inform the National Assembly of the beaten boy from the Saturday protest, handcuffed! Bring him back as soon as possible. To return and report what you were called for, which is in your jurisdiction. Because he ran so fast that even his colleagues couldn't see when he left the building. Bring him back as fast as you can, because this question can't stay that way! If we're waiting for a background check on the case on Saturday, I'm asking: when did you finish the check on the case last night? This is not about checking, it is about coming and saying why the Bulgarian police beat a young man in front of all Bulgarian citizens, handcuffed and thrown on the ground from two meters away? So, Madam President, it is entirely your responsibility to bring this minister back to plenary immediately.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u254	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Mrs. Daritkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u255	According to § 41 "A proposal of the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 41 be rejected. According to § 42 the proposal of the MP Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 42, which shall become § 37: ...... 37........................................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 261a is created. 6: The National Health Insurance Fund and the Ministry of Health shall provide the Council with information on the paid medicinal products under art. 262, para. 6 in the order set out in the ordinance under para. 5. Proposal of the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 43, which becomes § 38: ....................... 38........................................................... Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Art. 261b. The medicinal product may only be sold on the territory of the country after the entry into force of the decision of the Council on the approval of a price/limit price or the registration of a price, with the exception of medicinal products under art. Article 9 266a. Art. 261c. (1) The medicinal product can be sold at a price not higher than the established price under art. 261a, para. 1 of the marginal price referred to in art. 261a, para. 2 or from the registered price under art. 261a, para. 3. (2) The retailer shall indicate the selling price on the packaging of the medicinal product at the place indicated by the manufacturer. (3) The prices of medicinal products included in the value of medical care provided by medical institutions shall not be higher than the price at which the medical establishment has purchased the medicinal product from the wholesaler. (4) The medicinal product cannot be sold to medical establishments under art. 5 of the Law on medical institutions and of medical institutions with state and/or municipal participation under art. 9 and 10 of the Law on Medical Institutions at a price higher than the value determined by the order of the ordinance under art. 261a, para. 5. (5) For medicinal products included in the Positive Drug List under art. 262, para. 6, p. 1 with a level of payment of 100 per cent, no allowance shall be charged for a retailer when providing them at a pharmacy.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u256	Debates on the paragraphs that have been presented are § 41, which is proposed to be rejected; § 42, § 37; § 43, which becomes § 38... Are there any speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the debate. I put to the vote § 41, which is proposed to be rejected; § 42, which becomes § 37; § 43, which becomes § 38. Vote 81 MPs: 79, none, abstention 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u257	Procedure. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Before the vote on § 44 again I would like to call on Dr. Naydenova to withdraw his proposal because I see no one who wants to support it from her parliamentary group [[GRUNTING IN GERB]] Even from the opposition in parliament, I see no one, and I have four pages to read. I therefore ask you to save the MPs and me the effort to withdraw your proposal. In addition, the philosophy of the texts we are voting on is radically different. We have accepted that we will not include.. I am already passing the meaning, you can treat it and, as a statement, we will not include the ordinance of prices and reimbursement in the body of the Law. We will include only the basic parameters of the pricing and determination of the reimbursement of medicinal products, and in this sense your proposals do not correspond to what the Health Commission has united around. And in essence, your proposals must be rejected. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm reporting § 44. Proposal of the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly - § 44 to be dismissed. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 44 is amended as follows: ..................................................... Section III shall be established in Chapter twelfth with art. 261e -261j: "Department III" PRINCIPLE AND PRINCIPLE Art. 261f. (1) The prices of medicinal products for human use and medical devices under this law shall be: 1. producer price; 2. the reference price of the producer; 3. reference price of a wholesaler; 4. the reference price of a retailer; 5. supply price of a wholesaler; 6. market price; 7. selling price; 8. regulated price; 9. social price; 10. cost of acquisition; 11. allowance for different types of traders. (2) The price per producer shall be that price which cannot be higher than the left-hand equivalent of the lowest producer price for the same medicinal product in Belgium, Greece, Spain, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia and France, and the medicinal product and/or medical device shall be obtained from the manufacturer's warehouse; (3) The reference price of the producer shall be that price, which shall be the sum of the price of the producer under para 2, the price of the transport, the insurance, taxes and fees paid to an agreed place. (4) The reference price of a wholesaler shall be that price, which shall be the sum of the price of a producer under para. 2 or the reference price of a producer, under para. 3, the price for the transport, the wholesaler allowance, the insurance, taxes and fees paid to the warehouse of the wholesaler in the Republic of Bulgaria. The price applies to sold medicinal products and medical devices from the wholesaler's warehouse. (5) Delivery price per wholesaler is this price, which is the sum of the price per producer under para. 2 or the reference price of a producer under para. 3, the price for the transport, the wholesaler allowance, the insurance, taxes and fees paid to the warehouse of the wholesaler in the Republic of Bulgaria. The price applies to delivered and sold medicinal product and/or medical device to a medical and/or health establishment and/or retailer (the pharmacy). The wholesaler's supply price is validated by the IAL. (6) The reference price of a retailer shall be that price which shall constitute a sum of the reference price of a wholesaler under para. 4, the price for the transport, insurance, taxes and charges paid, the allowance for a retailer or the supply price of a wholesaler, the allowance for a retailer. (7) The retailer's sales price under this law for medicinal products and medical devices paid partially or entirely with public financial resources shall not be greater than the retailer's reference price. The retailer's sales price is validated by the IAL. (8) Market price is the standard price that a person or a medical establishment is willing to pay for a medicine or medical device in a pharmacy that is not paid in part or entirely with public financial resources. (9) Sale price shall be the unit price or for a certain quantity including value added tax and any additional taxes and charges at which the medicinal product or medical device is offered to the consumer. (10) A regulated price is a price that prevents the monopolistic manifestation of the market. Adjusted prices are the supply price of a wholesaler and the selling price of a retailer performing social functions, with the regulation being carried out by the IAL, agreed with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The regulated price is the final selling price established by the IAL. (11) The acquisition price shall be the price of medicinal products and medical devices, for human use, paid partially or entirely with public financial resources included in the Positive Drug List agreed with the LDC under art. 45 of the Law on Health Insurance and Medicinal Products and Medical Devices included in the Social Drug List. (12) The specific price is the agreed price between the seller and the buyer. (13) The price of a hospital user is the price of a medicinal product and/or medical device paid by a medical and healthcare facility with public financial resources when the medicinal product and/or medical device is delivered in a hospital packaging. (14) A final consumer within the meaning of this law shall be a natural or legal person who acquires medicinal products for its own use by a retailer registered under that law. (15) An allowance for a trader who is entitled to add to the price of his supplier (producer and/or wholesaler) in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria is as follows: 1. a wholesaler selling medicinal product and/or medical device to medical and healthcare establishments and pharmacies from the territory of a central warehouse, at the reference price of a manufacturer and/or medicinal product, may benefit from the allowance up to 4%; 2. a wholesaler supplying a medicinal product and/or medical device to medical and healthcare establishments in the territory of the medical and/or health establishment, and to 3. a wholesaler holding for a specified time by the rules implementing this law medicinal products and medical devices for reserve intended for disasters, accidents and epidemics and National Health Security may benefit from an additional allowance of 1%; 4. retailer (pharmacies), depending on location and working time, may benefit from the following allowances: (a) an eight-hour day pharmacy, on weekends and Sundays, may benefit up to 15%; b) pharmacy with an eight-hour working day, with a day off on Sundays, can benefit up to 16%; (c) an eight-hour day pharmacy, without a day off, may benefit up to 17%; (d) a pharmacy with a 24-hour working day, 365 days per year may benefit up to 18%; (e) pharmacy selling medicinal products and/or medical devices, in a district town of.. may benefit from an additional 1% allowance, depending on the conditions under which it carries out its activity referred to in b. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (f) pharmacy selling medicinal products and/or medical devices in a municipality (without municipalities in cities) ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (g) for medicinal products included in the Positive Drug List and the Social Drug List, paid one hundred percent with public financial resources, may request from the payer up to BGN 5 for a number to be paid by the payer concerned, once a month, on the basis of an invoice of value added tax charged. Art. 261g. (1) The price of the medicinal product and/or medical device included in the Positive Drug List and paid by public funds shall be made up of the following elements: 1. a price per producer which cannot be higher than the left-hand equivalent of the lowest producer price for the same medicinal product in Belgium, Greece, Spain, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia and France; 2. an allowance for a wholesaler of up to 4 percent of the amount applied for under point 2. 1, but not more than 10 BGN; 3. allowance for a retailer of up to 16 percent of the requested amount, but not more than 25 BGN. (2) The price of the medicinal product included in the PLC shall be calculated as the sum of the elements under para. 1, t. 1, 2 and 3 and value added tax. (3) When no producer price for the same medicinal product can be found for a medicinal product in the countries under para. 1, t. 1, the declared price of a manufacturer shall not be higher than the lowest price of a producer/producers entered/listed in the marketing authorisation/decision of the European Commission issued under Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of a medicinal product bearing the same international non-proprietary name, pharmaceutical form, quantity of the active substance in the dosage unit in the countries under para. 1, t. 1. (4) When no producer price for the same medicinal product can be found for a medicinal product in the countries under para. 1, t. 1, as well as a producer's price according to para. 3, the declared price of a manufacturer shall not be higher than the lowest price of a manufacturer of a medicinal product of the same international non-proprietary name, pharmaceutical form, quantity of the active substance in a dosage unit, which shall be considered to be a reference within the meaning of art. 28 and included in the PLC. (5) Price per producer in the countries under para. 1, t. 1, para. 3 and 4 is: 1. the price declared as a producer's price and disclosed by the relevant state institutions, including the internet addresses at which the prices of medicinal products are published and/or in the Co-operation Agreement database EURIPID Collaboration (Co-operation Agreement with regard to pricing and reimbursing of medicinal products); 2. the price calculated on the basis of the regulations of the States under para. 1, t. 1 where state institutions have disclosed a wholesaler/small price. (6) The price difference published by the country concerned and those in the Co-operation Agreement database EURIPID Collaboration shall take the more favourable price for the applicant. (7) When at the check under para. 1 producer price per medicinal product/medicine is established only in the EuroPID Collaboration Co-operation Agreement database, the price shall be taken into account after confirmation by the State institution of the country concerned. (8) Where the declared price of a manufacturer is up to BGN 10,00, the amount of allowances for a wholesaler and retailer added to it shall be 4 and 16 per cent respectively. (9) When the declared price per producer is within the range of BGN 10,01. up to 30,00 BGN, the amount of allowances for wholesaler and retailer added to it is 4 and 16 percent respectively. (10) When the requested price of a manufacturer is more than 30,00 BGN, the amount of allowances for a wholesaler and retailer added to it is respectively 4 per cent, but not more than 10 BGN, and 16 per cent, but not more than 25 BGN. Art. 261h. (1) The cost of a medicinal product and/or medical device included in the Social Drug List, partly or entirely paid with private financial resources under this law, shall be formed by the following elements: 1. a price per producer which cannot be higher than the left-hand equivalent of the lowest producer price for the same medicinal product in Belgium, Greece, Spain, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia and France; 2. a wholesaler allowance of 4 per cent of the amount applied for under point 2. 1 price; 3. the allowance for a retailer of the amount of 16 per cent of the amount applied for under point 1. One price. (2) Price per producer in the countries under para. 1, t. 1 is: 1. the price declared as a producer price and disclosed by the relevant state institutions, including the internet addresses at which the prices of medicinal products are published and/or in the EURIPID Collaboration database; 2. the price calculated on the basis of the regulations of the States under para. 1, t. 1 where state institutions have disclosed a wholesaler/small price. (3) The mechanism of formation of the acquisition price of medicinal products prepared by highway and pharmaceutical recipe in a pharmacy shall be determined in accordance with the rules governing the application of this law. (4) The social medicinal list shall be published on the website of the EAL and updated on a monthly basis. Art. 261. (1) The specific prices and volumes of medicinal products and medical devices paid with public financial resources for human use included in the Positive Drug List and the Social Drug List shall be determined annually during the budgetary procedure by means of a tender carried out by the IAL, jointly with the NHIF and the other contractual partners of the wholesalers managed by the Ministry of Health. (2) The location, working time and contact telephone for each pharmacy shall be published on the website of the Ministry of Health. (3) The prices at which the pharmacy sells shall be published on the website of the Ministry of Health. (4) For each change, the person authorised for retail trade shall notify the IAL within three days before the change occurs. In accidental cases, the IAL shall be notified at the time of the occurrence of the event of the coverage of the website of the Ministry of Health. (5) The specific procedures under the requirements of the retailer, the IAL and the Ministry of Health shall be signed in the Rules for the Implementation of this Law. Art. 261j. (1) Through the auction under art. 261th para. Three suppliers with the lowest wholesaler reference prices for a medicinal product and/or medical device having the same active substance and/or properties shall be identified. On this basis, a weighted average wholesaler price is determined and recorded per unit of medicinal product and/or medical device. The weighted average price shall be recorded as a weighted average wholesaler reference price for a product. (2) Holders of a marketing authorisation or their authorised representatives who have won the right of supply of medicinal products and/or medical devices annually can by negotiating with the payers (NHIF, Ministry of Health, etc.) to negotiate a reduction in the average price of a wholesaler in the relevant year. (3) Through the supply contract between the winners of the right to supply medicinal products and/or medical devices wholesalers under para. 1 determine the specific volumes that the wholesaler undertakes to provide on the market. (4) The contract between the wholesaler and the payer shall agree on the average deviation from the consumption of a particular medicinal product and/or medical device by month. (5) In case of non-compliance with the agreed quantities within a specific wholesaler, the failing party shall pay the costs incurred by the payer (NHIF, IHD, etc.) for the supply of the agreed quantity of medicinal products and/or medical devices. (6) In the event of failure from the market, the wholesaler shall be entitled, after authorisation obtained by the IAL, to realize a particular medicinal product and/or medical device on markets outside the country. (7) In the event of a shortage on the market of a medicinal product and/or medical device, the wholesaler shall make additional efforts to ensure the market at a price not exceeding the weighted average wholesaler reference price for the relevant year. (8) For the long-term provision of medicinal products and medical devices, long-term contracts shall be concluded, such as a change in the average wholesaler's wholesaler's price of reference shall be made only after the presentation by the wholesaler of sufficient evidence of the existence of facts and circumstances supporting the need to change the weighted average wholesaler's reference price. (9) A new tender shall be held regardless of a long-term contract with a retailer where a new wholesaler has received the necessary authorisation for production and wholesale trade and has declared a lower wholesale price than the averaged wholesaler reference price. (10) In the case of deregistered medicinal products and/or medical devices from the Bulgarian market, the IAL shall arrange for conditions to be registered again through direct negotiations with producers. (11) At the end of the positive drug list a dash shall be placed and the name of the payer (NHIF, IHD, etc.) shall be placed.) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009). The Commission does not support the proposal. [[Applause from GERB.]] The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 44 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u258	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. Debates under § 44? Are there any speeches? Mrs. Naydenova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u259	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! At the first reading of the PID of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, looking at the philosophy of the importer, I would like to remind those who would possibly support the removal of § 44 [[GERB lines]] , and the following paragraphs s 45, 46, 47. [[GERB lines.]] To remind you what philosophy is.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u260	Your proposal protects us we know it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u261	The Philosophy "You know, since you are proposing to drop these articles, I quote: "The procedures for regulating and recording the prices of medicinal products and the inclusion of medicinal products in the Positive Drug List are signed at the level of the law, as the regulation of the conditions, rules and arrangements for regulating and registering the prices of medicinal products is currently subject to regulation, regulation of conditions, rules and procedures for regulating and registering the prices of medicinal products. These procedures shall have the character of administrative regimes within the meaning of art. 4 of the Law on the limitation of administrative regulation and administrative control of business, which is why the systematic place of the system is in law and this is the reason for the proposed legal change. It's part of the importer's motives. We all know that the importer is the Council of Ministers and under this is the signature of the President of the Council of Ministers Mr. Boyko Borisov. What happens between first and second readings? Dr. Ivanov, you're putting us on alert! Do you stand behind the fact that paragraphs 44, 45, 46 to 47 should be dropped against the proposal of the Council of Ministers and the Prime Minister who signed it?! Therefore, since Dr. Ivanov opposes this and the Commission supports it, we propose our proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u262	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. Any other speeches? Mrs. Daritkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u263	My fellow Members, without any abuse of your patience, like others, I would like to say that the Health Commission is not a post office box................................................................................... In this sense, we do not believe that the Regulation should be fully rewritten in the Law. This makes the Law extremely difficult and difficult to implement. Furthermore, the Regulation regulates more dynamic matter, which implies an easier intervention in it. That is why we want the texts that can really create difficulties in implementation to remain in a regulation that allows for a timely response when there are changes and needs, for example, to change prices of medicinal products, levels of reimbursement, reference countries or other topics that can be subject to regulation in the Law. I expected you to defend your proposals... I will ask my colleagues not to support them in any way, regardless of the powerful support of your parliamentary group, because more confused, more vague and more eclectic texts than the previous law I read, I had not seen and read recently. Colleagues, please don't support Dr. Naydenova's proposal. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-15.u264	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova. Vote 85 MPs: 9 against 73, abstention 3. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the removal of § 44 in accordance with the Commission's proposal. They voted 86 MPs: 80, against 3, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. We're done with business for the day. On 16 July 2020 at 9.00 is the next Parliament meeting on the pre-voted programme. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda, I am adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
