ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u1	We have a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Before we move on to the first item of today's agenda, I will read you a message: On 30 June 2020, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 June 2015 to 25 June 2020 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 June 2020 to 25 June 2020 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 June 2020 to 25 June 2020 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 June 2020 to 25 June 2020. 2 of the National Assembly Decision of 13 December 2019, adopted in connection with the debates on the questions of the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Manol Genov, Atanas Kostadinov, Lubomir Bonev, Milko Nedyalkov, Vasil Antonov, Ivan Valentinov and Tasco Ermenkov, No 954-05-51, from 20 November 2019, received information from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on the progress in implementing the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Measures to the Strategy for Development and Management of Supply and Sewerage for the period 2014 - 2023 and, if necessary, to propose to the Council of Ministers an update of the Strategy. The information is sent to the MPs at their e-mail addresses and is available at the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to point one: This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. Colleagues, speakers can speak without masks. Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u2	Mrs. Chairman! Please, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to put to the vote to be admitted to the Chamber: Mr. Plamen Kolev, Chairman of the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence, Mr. Ilko Zhelyazkov, Vice-President, Mr. Ilija Ganev, Member of the Bureau, Mr. Ognian Atanasov and Mr. Ognian Stoichkov, Members of the National Bureau.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u3	Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 152 MPs: 146 against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Mr. Lazarov, please read the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u4	♪ I can't believe to the Commission for the Control of Security Services, the Application and Use of Special Intelligence Means and the Access to Data under the Electronic Communications Act on a Report of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means for the activity carried out in 2019, No 009-00-1, of 29 May 2020 At a meeting held on 25 June 2020, the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act heard a Report of the National Bureau of Special Intelligence Control on the activities carried out in 2019. The meeting was attended by: the President and members of the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence, Tsvetan Kitov, Chairman of the State Agency............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The activity report of the National Bureau for 2019 was presented by Mr. Plamen Kolev, Chairman of the National Bureau, who noted that it reflected statistics on the number of persons under control during the reporting period, the requests made, the authorisations issued and the operational methods applied. In 2019 special intelligence means were used in relation to 3310 persons. For the 3569 procedures 6039 requests have been made for the use of special intelligence means under which the judges have granted 5396 authorisations and 643 refusals. As a result of the applied special reconnaissance means, 1124 material means of evidence have been drawn up. In 259 cases, special intelligence means have been used in relation to sites to identify persons for whom there has been evidence and reason to assume that they are preparing, committing or committing a serious criminal offence. For 548 procedures the application of special intelligence means has started in accordance with the terms and conditions of art. 17 of the Special Intelligence Funds Act and 15 persons under art. 18 of the Law. The total number of operational tools implemented for 2019 shall be 8472. In 2019 special intelligence means were used most often in connection with acts under art. 321 of the Criminal Code (organised criminal group) "2617 pieces, which represents 48.78 per cent of the total number; under art. 354a of the Criminal Code (narcotic substances) "803 pieces, which is 14.91%; under art. 234 of the Code of Penalty (Active Goods) - 279 pieces, which is 5,21%; under art. 195 of the Penal Code (thefts) - 213 pieces, which is 3,97%; under art. 301 of the Criminal Code (bribe) " 178 pieces, which is 3,32%; under art. 209 of the Penal Code (Criminal Code) - 145 pieces, which is 2.71%; Chapter one of the special part of the Criminal Code - 181 pieces. The analysis of the statistical data and findings of the inspections of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence means concludes that the number of persons to whom special intelligence means are used is approximately identical. The authorities referred to in art. 15 of the Law has increased their criteria for issuing permissions for the application of special intelligence means and continue the practice imposed to require all materials on which the request is based. This is a guarantee for strict implementation of the Law and leads to increased requirements by the heads of the bodies under art. 13 of the Special Intelligence Means Act. The report also sets out details of the received alerts for unlawful application of special intelligence means and court cases under the State's liability law and the municipalities for damages. The relevant proposals for the improvement of the legal framework of the procedures relating to the use of special intelligence means are also set out. During the discussion, the members of the Commission gave their positive assessment of the activities of the National Bureau for 2019 and expressed their support for the report. On the basis of the discussion held, the Commission, with 6 votes for the Council, with no objection to the Council of Ministers, is proposing that the National Assembly adopt, by decision, a Report of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means for the activities carried out in 2019, No 009"1, dated 29 May 2020. Project! DECISION on the Report of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means for the activity carried out in 2019 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Adopts a Report of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means for the activities carried out in 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you go. I don't see any. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I will read the draft decision one more time while the MPs take their seats in the Chamber. Project! DECISION on the Report of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means for the activity carried out in 2019 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Adopts a Report of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means for the activities carried out in 2019 Please, voting mode. They voted 125 MPs, 122, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we're going to point two: REPORT ON THE COMMISSION'S ACTION TO CONTROL THE SECURITY, APPLICATION AND USE OF SPECIAL REPRESENTATIVES AND ACCESS TO DATA UNDER THE ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION LAW IN 2019 Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u6	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, the Commission report is submitted within the deadline, adopted by the Commission, the Members of the National Assembly have it, I will inform you that I will read a summary of the report, it is sufficiently bulky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u7	You can read it all, we'll be interested.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u8	♪ I can't believe on the activities of the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act in 2019. This report has been drawn up in accordance with the requirements of art. 18, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the Forty-fourth National Assembly and Art. 17, p. 10 of the internal rules on the organisation and activities of the Commission, in relation to the competence of the Commission under art. 34z, para. 1 of the Special Intelligence Means Act and art. 2616, para. 1 of the Law on Electronic Communications. The report reflects findings, conclusions and recommendations regarding the access of the data under the Law on Electronic Communications, based on the results of the checks carried out by the specialized unit within the specialized administration of the National Assembly supporting the Commission's work, as well as the measures taken to improve the procedures for storing and processing the data under the Law on Electronic Communications concerning the proposals made in the Commission's annual report for 2018. The report also reported the activities of the Commission for dealing with complaints and signals from citizens and organizations under the Law on Special Intelligence Means and the Law on Electronic Communications, as well as on legislative changes and reports from the security services to the National Assembly. Summarized and analysed information on the use and application of special intelligence means. According to the data of the Supreme Judicial Council, the courts at the request of the authorities under art. 13, para. 1 of the Special Intelligence Means Act and the monitoring prosecutors have issued 5396 permits and 643 refusals. The permissions for the initial requests are 3799 and 545 refusals and those for the extension of the deadline are 1597. The comparison of the data with the previous year shows that requests for use and application of special intelligence means by the authorities under art. 13, para. 1 of the Special Intelligence and Monitoring Prosecutors Act decreased by 57, the permissions increased by 63 and the refusals decreased by 109. The persons to whom permissions are granted are 3510. According to the data of the Supreme Cassation Prosecutors, 2262 requests for the use and application of special intelligence means have been made by the monitoring prosecutors and 224 refusals. The initial requests are 1390 and those for extension are 872. The comparison of data with the previous year shows that requests for use and application of special intelligence funds decreased by 63, authorisations decreased by 18 and refusals decreased by 47. The persons to whom requests have been made are 1333. According to the State Agency "National Security" as an authority under art. 13, para. 1 of the Special Intelligence Means Act has drawn up 339 requests for the use and application of special intelligence means under which 277 authorisations are granted and 50 refusals. The initial requests are 200 and those for extension are 77. The comparison of data with the previous year shows that requests for use and application of special intelligence means increased by 56, authorisations decreased by 5 and refusals decreased by 3. The persons to whom requests have been made are 197. 12 requests for the use and application of special intelligence means under which permissions have been granted have been made, according to the Office's data. The initial requests are 8 and those for extension are 4. The comparison of data with the previous year shows that requests for use and application of special intelligence means increased by 3, authorisations increased by 4 and refusals decreased by 1. The persons to whom requests have been made shall be 8. According to the Office of Military Information and the State Agency of Intelligence, no requests for the use and implementation of special intelligence resources have been made. According to the data of the Ministry of Interior, 3203 requests for use and application of special intelligence means are drawn up by the structures, under which 2872 authorisations are granted and 331 refusals. The initial requests are 2388 and the requests for extension are 815. The comparison of data with the previous year shows that requests for use and application of special intelligence funds decreased by 115, authorisations increased by 42 and refusals decreased by 112. The persons to whom requests have been made are 2246. According to data from the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, 145 requests for the use and application of special intelligence means have been issued 115 permits and 30 refusals. The initial requests are 98 and for extension are 17. The comparison of data with the previous year shows that requests for use and application of special intelligence means increased by 76, authorisations increased by 81 and refusals increased by 21. The persons to whom requests have been made are 88. According to the data of the State Agency, there are 4830 authorised under the Law on Special Intelligence and the Code of Criminal Procedure for the Use and Implementation of Special Intelligence Funds, of which the permissions to the initial requests are 3682 and permissions on requests for extension are 1148. The comparison of the data with the previous year shows that authorisations for the use of special intelligence means have decreased by 136 authorisations for initial requests increased by 8 and permissions for requests for extension have decreased by 144. From the organs under art. 13, para. 1 of the Special Intelligence Means Act was granted 2992 authorisations, of which the permissions to the initial requests were 2285 and the permissions on requests for extension were 707. The persons to whom special intelligence means have been applied are 3019. According to the State Agency "National Security" as an authority under art. 20 of the Special Intelligence Means Act, which was adopted under the Special Intelligence Means Act and the Code of Criminal Procedure, permits for the use and application of special intelligence means are 528, of which the permissions for the initial requests are 329 and permissions for the extension of the deadline are 199. The comparison of the data with the previous year shows that permissions for the use of special intelligence means increased by 166, permissions for initial requests increased by 94 and permissions for requests for extension increased by 72. The persons to whom special intelligence means have been applied are 276. According to the Ministry of Interior as an authority under art. 20 of the Special Intelligence Means Act, which was adopted under the Law and the Code of Criminal Procedure, permits for the use and application of special intelligence means are 38, of which the permissions for initial requests are 24 and permissions on requests for extension are 14. The comparison of the data with the previous year shows that the authorisations for the use of special intelligence means decreased by 3, the permissions for initial requests decreased by 3 and the permissions for requests for extension were maintained. The persons to whom special intelligence means have been applied are 15. The summary analysis of the data when comparing them with the previous year shows that requests for use and application of special intelligence means have decreased, authorisations have increased and refusals are reduced. This shows that cases requiring the application of this subsidiary method for the needs of the criminal process have been reduced, as well as the conclusion of strict compliance with the regulations governing the use and application of special intelligence means in ensuring the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens. Summary and analysis of information and findings of checks on compliance with the procedures for authorising and making access to the data under the Law on Electronic Communications. Summary of statistical information on the requests made, the court orders issued, the references received and destroyed for the data under art. 2516, para. 1 under the Law on Electronic Communications. According to the data of the Supreme Judicial Council at all levels of the courts of the District, District, Military and Specialized Criminal Court, requests for access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications and the Code of Criminal Procedure are 31,991, under which 29 325 permits are granted and 2666 refusals. The comparison of the data with the previous year shows that requests for access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications and the Code of Criminal Procedure decreased by 1175, permissions decreased by 4510 and refusals decreased by 379. Request for access to the data under art. 251b, para. 1 of the Law on Electronic Communications by the authorities under art. 251c, para. 1 and 2 of the Law on Electronic Communications are 13 108, under which 11 552 permits and 1556 refusals are granted. The comparison of the data with the previous year showed that the requests increased by 2505, the permissions increased by 868 and the refusals increased by 432. Requests for access to the data from the authorities of the Prosecutor's Office 18 883, under which 17 773 permits were granted and 1110 refused. Compared to the previous year, the claims decreased by 3680, the authorisations decreased by 3642 and the refusals decreased by 53. It should be clarified that the number of requests does not correspond to the sum of the number of authorisations and refusals, since, in a number of cases, the court is to rule by more than one order and, in others, it is to request partial authorisation or refusal. According to the data of the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office at all levels of prosecutors, districts, military and specialized prosecutors, requests for access to data under art. 159a, para. 1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is 19 120, under which 17 992 permits are given and 1073 refusals. The comparison of the data with the previous year shows that the requests decreased by 3500, the permissions took 3449 and the refusals decreased by 129. The persons for whom data reference has been obtained are 4 513. The number of data references applied in court cases is 1704. 402 proposals have been made for the destruction of references under art. 159a, para. 6 of the PPC, of which 342 are authorised and 326 destruction protocols have been drawn up. According to the Ministry of Interior, requests for access to the data under art. 251b of the Law on Electronic Communications is 8564, under which 8635 permits are granted and 826 refusals. Compared to the previous year, the claims decreased by 812, the authorisations decreased by 857 and the refusals decreased by 125. The persons for whom data reference has been obtained are 2009. The requests under art. 251z, para. 2 of the Law on Electronic Communications at the request of a competent authority of another State are 13. The structures of the Ministry of Interior have destroyed 8989 references under art. 251g, para. 2 of the Law on Electronic Communications and 3 references under art. 251g, para. 3 of the Law on Electronic Communications. According to the data of the State Agency "National Security" the requests for access to the data under art. 251b of the Law on Electronic Communications is 1976, under which 2682 permits are granted and 203 refusals. The comparison of the data with the previous year shows that the requests decreased by 204, the authorisations increased by 278 and the refusals decreased by 28. The requests under art. 25lg, para. 1 of the Law on Electronic Communications concerning cases of imminent danger of committing a crime under art. 108a, para. 1.................................................... Art. 6 and 7 109, para. Art. 3, Art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1, proposal 6th, Art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Art. 2, Art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 3, p. Art. 1 and Art. 1 320, para. 2 of the Penal Code is 12. The structures of the State Agency "National Security" have destroyed 2967 references under art. 251g, para. 2 of the Law on Electronic Communications and 12 references under art. 251g, para. 3 of the Law on Electronic Communications for which destruction protocols have been drawn up. According to data from the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property requests for access to the data under art. 251b of the Law on Electronic Communications are 2 under which 6 authorisations are given. The comparison of the data with the previous year shows that the requests decreased by 7, the permissions decreased by 2 and the refusals decreased by 1. The Commission has destroyed 4 references under art. 251g, para. 2 of the Law on Electronic Communications. According to the Ministry of Defence of the Ministry of Defence, the requests for access to the data under art. 251b of the Law on Electronic Communications is 23, under which 54 permits and five refusals are given. The comparison of the data with the previous year shows that the requests decreased by one, the authorisations decreased by 10 and the refusals increased by three. The Office has destroyed 43 references under art. 251g, para. 2 of the Law on Electronic Communications. According to the Office of Military Information and the State Agency of Intelligence, no requests for access to the data under art. 251b of the Law on Electronic Communications. According to data from the Ministry of Finance for the Ministry of Finance, the proposals for requests for access to the data under art. 159a, para. 1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure from investigating authorities to prosecutors overseeing pre-trial proceedings is 40, under which 53 authorisations are granted. The comparison of the data with the previous year shows that the proposals for requests decreased by 17, the permissions decreased by two and the refusals decreased by two. According to data from mobile operators, a total of 54 329 court orders for access to data have been received in the enterprises, of which 24 712 are under art. 251b, para. 1 and 2 of the Law on Electronic Communications and 29 617 are under art. 159a, para. 1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure for the Court and Prosecutors. (Annex No 2) In 348 cases, mobile operators refused to provide data reference in view of unsaved procedures and requirements of the Law on Electronic Communications and Criminal Procedure Code. In 2018, in 251 cases, mobile operators refused to provide data references for non-saved procedures and requirements of the Law on Electronic Communications and Criminal Procedure Code. The comparison of data with the previous year showed that cases increased by 97. The summary analysis of the data when comparing them with the previous year shows that requests for access to the data under the Law on Electronic Communications and the Code of Criminal Procedure are less, suggesting that there has also been a decrease in the cases where references are needed for data on the needs of national security and for the prevention, detection and investigation of serious crimes, including for the purposes of preventing serious crimes within the framework of operational and search activities under Chapter 9 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property and for carrying out search and rescue operations in cases under Art. 38, para. 3 of the Law on the Protection of Disasters. The increase in the number of undertakings' refusals to provide references under the Law on Electronic Communications shows, on the one hand, that undertakings strictly comply with the legal requirements for the provision of the data created or processed in the course of their activity. On the other hand, it shows that it is necessary to build up the training of professional knowledge necessary for the precise application of the provisions of the Law on Electronic Communications and the Code of Criminal Procedure by the authorities to which undertakings have refused to provide data reference in view of unsaved procedures and requirements of the Law on Electronic Communications and the Code of Criminal Procedure. Findings of checks regarding compliance with the procedures for authorising and implementing access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications. In the implementation of Decisions No 6 of 28 March 2019 and No 7 of 4 September 2019 of the Commission to the Forty-fourth National Assembly in accordance with art. 261b, para. 1 of the Law on Electronic Communications, the specialized unit within the specialized administration of the National Assembly has carried out control and monitoring of the procedures for authorisation and implementation of access to the data under art. 251b, para. 1 as well as protecting citizens' rights and freedoms against unlawful access to such data. 136 checks were carried out in public order and security structures and judicial authorities. The checks have found that the diverse practice in the prosecutions continues with regard to the application of the provisions of art. 159a, para. 3, p. 3 of the Code of Criminal Procedure - Data on persons requiring traffic data and on art. 159a, para. 3, p. 4 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.. a period of time to cover the reference. No proposals shall be made for the destruction of data references for terminated pre-trial proceedings and for those in which the accused is exempt from criminal liability with the imposition of administrative punishment. The diverse practice in the bodies under art. 251c, para. 1 of the Law on Electronic Communications in the Prosecutors' Offices concerning the number of requests for access to data under one file relating to the indication of the number of persons whose rights are also limited to the number of undertakings providing public electronic communications networks and/or services. This leads to the failure to establish the exact number of requests made per file relative to the number of persons and without taking into account the number of undertakings to provide data reference. Verifications carried out in the enterprises providing public electronic communications networks and/or services It has been found that legal orders and requests for access to data for formal non-compliance with the requirements of the Law on Electronic Communications and the Code of Criminal Procedure continue to be entered in the undertakings. In such cases, undertakings have refused to provide the requested references. A total of 348 cases where the provisions governing access to data are not complied with and may be summarised by the following types and bodies: 1. Orders for access to data for formal non-compliance with the requirements of the Law on Electronic Communications and the Code of Criminal Procedure. 2. Requested judicial permissions for access to data whose 6-month storage period has expired. 3. Legal permissions for access to data by prosecutors, investigative and investigative bodies and by the authorities under art. 251c, para. 1 of the Law on Electronic Communications after the expiry of the 6-month storage period. 4. Requests for access to data from the prosecution, investigative and investigative bodies and by the authorities under art. 251c, para. 1 of the Law on Electronic Communications without judicial orders. Proposals for improving the procedures for authorising and accessing the data under the Law on Electronic Communications. As a result of the checks carried out and the facts found, proposals may be made to improve the work in the following guidelines: 1. In all levels of prosecutions, introduce a uniform practice on the number of requests for access to data in a pre-trial procedure relevant to the number of persons and without taking into account the number of enterprises providing the data. 2. In all structures of the Ministry of Interior, a uniform practice shall be introduced for the number of requests for access to data drawn up in one file of a preliminary report or case of an operational report relevant to the number of persons and without taking into account the number of enterprises providing the data. 3. Current training for the precise application of the provisions of the Law on Electronic Communications and the Code of Criminal Procedure in order to upgrade the professional knowledge required by the authorities to whom undertakings have refused to provide data reference to the authorities involved in the procedures for access to data, as well as to officials performing tasks in relation to the reporting of data in the registers under the Law on Electronic Communications. Complaints and signals from citizens and organizations. Under the internal rules on the order and work of the Commission, the Commission has the power to deal with complaints and alerts of citizens and organisations in respect of actions and acts of the security services staff and in relation to the use and application of special intelligence means and access to the data under art. 251b, para. 1 of the Law on Electronic Communications. The Commission received two complaints from natural persons concerning the unlawful use of the special intelligence means against them. Following parliamentary review of the claims raised in the complaints, no claims have been found against the applicants to have unlawfully implemented special intelligence means. Legislative activity and parliamentary control over the activities of the security services. During the period of 2019 there were no legislative proposals to improve the activities under the Special Intelligence Means Act and under the Law on Electronic Communications based on experience in the practice of implementing the current arrangements. During that period, the Commission held 17 meetings at which it examined and voted six proposals for legislative changes, six-year activity reports and opinions on the budgets of the security services. Annexes: 1. Annex No 1 - Data under the Special Intelligence Means Act for 2019; 2. Annex No 2 - Data under the Law on Electronic Communications for 2019; 3. Annex No 3 "Annual orders and requests for access to data', in case of formal non-compliance with the requirements of the Law on Electronic Communications and the Code of Criminal Procedure. Project! DECISION on a report on the activities of the Commission for the Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications in 2019. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 18, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in relation to art. 34z, para. 1 of the Special Intelligence Means Act and art. 261b, para. 1 of the Law on Electronic Communications HAS DECIDED Adopts a Report on the Commission's activities for the control of security, implementation and use of special intelligence and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications in 2019, with applications of No 1 [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. I won't. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. While we are waiting for our fellow Members to return to the Chamber, I will read to you one more time the draft decision: Project! DECISION on a report on the activities of the Commission for the Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications in 2019. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 18, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in relation to art. 34z, para. 1 of the Special Intelligence Means Act and art. 261b, para. 1 of the Law on Electronic Communications HAS DECIDED Adopts a Report on the Commission's activities for the control of security, implementation and use of special intelligence and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications in 2019, with applications of No 1 Please, voting mode. They voted 115 MPs: 113, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, this concludes the legislative part. Since 11:00. I'm in control. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u10	Honourable Members, we will continue with the next item on the agenda: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. Message: On 30 June 2020, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 June 2015 to 25 June 2020 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 June 2020 to 25 June 2020 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 June 2020 to 25 June 2020 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 June 2020 to 25 June 2020. 2 of the National Assembly's decision of 13 December 2019 adopted in connection with the debates on questions by the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Manol Genov, Atanas Kostadinov, Lubomir Bonev, Milko Nedyalkov, Vasil Antonov, Ivan Ivanov and Tasco Ermenkov, No 954 05 51 of 20 November 2019, received information from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on the progress in the implementation of the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Measures to the Strategy for Development and Management of Water Supply and Sewerage for the period 2014 - 2023 and, if necessary, to propose an update of the Strategy to the Council of Ministers. The information is sent to the MPs at their e-mail addresses and is available at the Library of the National Assembly. Written answers for service by: - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov on a question from the National Representative Polina Tsankova Hristova; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Irena Anastasova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Justice Danail Kirilov on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on a question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev on a question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the MPs Dzhevdet Chakarov and Elhan Kulkov; - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov of three questions from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov on a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov on a question from the MPs Filip Popov and Dimitar Danchev. To the Minister of Tourism Ms. Nikolina Angelkova there is a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov about the measures for support of travel agencies and tour operators. Mr. Ivanov, you're welcome to state your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u11	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! This issue is dictated by a number of meetings and talks with representatives of the tourism industry, who are excited, of course, by the measures to support their activities taken by the Ministry of Tourism. It is a well-known fact that after the crisis and the outbreak of the coronavirus, there was also a crisis in the tourism sector. Many of the Bulgarian tour operators and travel agencies suffered because of the fact that a number of customers discontinued their travel plans, and sums were paid, which were subsequently to be returned. Currently, there are severe disputes between both customers and travel operators and agencies and between those providing tourist services and tourist products. In general, the industry is in an extremely difficult state - they are worried about their future and whether they will survive in their activities in the future. My question in this regard is: what measures has the Ministry of Tourism provided for to assist travel agencies and tour operators and to overcome the economic consequences of the CoVID-19 pandemic? I ask you in advance in my exhibition, if you can, to skip the measures taken in respect of umbrellas, sunbeds, beaches and so on. We are interested in the measures taken with regard to travel agencies and tour operators in order to overcome the crisis. In what way will the Ministry assist them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u12	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mrs. Angelkova, you have three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u13	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, the crisis due to the spread of COVID-19 has caused a severe and unprecedented impact on economic life worldwide. Tourism is undoubtedly one of the most affected sectors of the economy. In the context of a pandemic, with care for the health of the people, their citizens, the Bulgarian government and in particular the Ministry of Tourism have taken a number of measures to address the economic consequences, and due to the dynamic nature of the situation, the actions taken are periodically updated. I present to you the measures that are applicable specifically to the support of travel agencies and tour operators. One of the most important steps we have taken to support tour operators is the legislative change that has enabled tour operators to recover the paid amount for travel within 12 months from the date of the cancellation of the emergency situation. Travelers have the right to choose a tourist voucher for alternative travel, and if they do not wish to benefit from it, they have up to 12 months to recover their prepaid money. This measure assists tour operators in the problem of the lack of liquidity. Second, a State subsidy of 35 euros for each seat of the maximum passenger capacity of the aircraft for each flight. The target aid to the sector is specifically for tour operators using air carriers services. The subsidy is granted for each seat occupied by a person using a tourist service in the Republic of Bulgaria and is only for flights with a capacity of not less than 100 seats. Thirdly, the 60/40 measure is for the preservation of employment, which has been updated since 1 July and has a new design. For tourism one of the most damaged sectors, the measure 60/40 is now 80/20 and employers will be able to benefit from the additional 290 BGN as the maximum permissible state aid. Fourth, as of 1 July, the new measure is in force - Employment for you - which is worth 160 million. BGN, with the funds provided under the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" and more than 50 million. lv. priority are planned for the sectors of "Tourism", "Hoteling and Restaurants" and "Tour activity". Employers will be able to hire persons registered at the labor bureaus because of the COVID-19 pandemic. Fifthly, a grant of 173 million. lv. by reprogramming funds under Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness." Support is intended for micro and small enterprises and to address the economic consequences of the pandemic with the COVID-19. So far, over 553 projects have been approved mainly for tour operators and touroperators. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. to support medium-sized enterprises. Seventhly, the program for the Bulgarian Bank for Development was extended with interest-free lending to individuals, and in support of those employed in the sector "Tourism" is also the Programme for interest-free loans for support, which has been updated and facilitated since 19 June. Another measure supporting tourism workers is financial assistance with business loans to small and medium-sized enterprises. It has the opportunity to benefit from economic entities, including tour operators and travel agents. The Bulgarian Development Bank programme for portfolio guarantees in support of the liquidity of small and medium-sized enterprises also includes the provision of unsecured working loans up to 300 thousand. BGN, in order to overcome the negative economic consequences of the spread of COVID-19. I would also point out that the Ministry of Tourism is developing as a long-term measure the creation of a Guarantee Fund as well. A few years ago the idea was rejected by the business, but the current situation is supported and representatives of the tour operators and associations are actively involved in it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Angelkova. Mr. Ivanov, you're entitled to a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u15	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I have listened carefully to your statement concerning the measures taken by the Ministry, but there are a number of questions to which we have not received an answer and which have been asked by travel agencies and tourist operators, for example, one of the main questions you are asking: what measures does the Ministry take with regard to seriously increased insurance premiums that are taken by insurers to guarantee their product? That's the main problem. You know that there are currently no revenues and insurance companies unilaterally change their contracts with travel agencies and operators to ensure their activity. You have well planned to create such a guarantee fund, but at the moment the only guarantee for users of tourist services is precisely that insurance which, to date, becomes impossible at most for travel agencies and tourist operators. The other thing I am excited about and I want to hear your opinion, because they also expect to hear it is: would you be inclined by the Ministry of Tourism with regard to these small travel agencies and small tourist operators who would like to freeze their activity within a year, and what is the possibility that the Ministry of Tourism will not charge them? You know that they owe fees for the renewal of their licenses work or do not work, and in this situation they are extremely difficult and excited whether such a gesture would be made to them. After all, if you could answer me: how many of them have benefited from the measure 60/40 or 80/20 because, as far as I know, not a small part of them have been able to benefit from this measure and will there be any more relaxed conditions for this industry? It is no secret to you, too, as Minister of Tourism, that literally this sector in the Bulgarian economy is in front of collapse. You can see what is happening and only today one of the major tour operators has stopped its charters to Bulgaria, which will further hit this industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u16	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u17	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I take the opportunity to reiterate that the Ministry of Tourism is not a party to the insurance contracts between the tour operator and the insurance company. To the Ministry of Tourism, the tour operator should provide information on valid insurance, which is the responsibility of the tour operator. In view of the situation and the numerous signals that we have and also the notifications from two of the insurers that they unilaterally terminate their insurance to tour operators, we have been talking to the Financial Supervision Commission since March, which monitors this activity, has reacted and given instructions, and the Ministry of Tourism has been monitoring whether valid insurances for?............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I stress it is not a party to these contracts! What we have done apart from meeting with the Insurance Association and individual insurance companies is actually to address them, as well as they have made a commitment to understanding, given the difficult situation. Many of these tour operators, whose insurance contracts have been terminated, have turned to other insurers, so they have valid contracts, but we are following this situation, which is not a point I stress, directly within the competence of the Ministry of Tourism, nor are we a party to this contract. With regard to licences and renewal fees, the licence is a one-off, in the sense of the licensing of tour operators and tour operators. Here you know that this is an obligation by law and a legislative change is needed. So depending on how and how long the crisis lasts, and if necessary, we tend to your proposal to other MPs and tour operators and associations to discuss all possibilities for legislative change that will help the activity of this part of the sector that is most affected. Every suggestion that we have in this direction, we tend to discuss it with everyone interested. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u18	Thank you. The next question to the Minister of Tourism is from Mr. Nikolay Tishev on the Regulation on the terms and conditions for determining the places under art. 10a, para. 1 of the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast, the rules and regulations for setting and using them, as well as for staying in them. Mr. Tishev, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u19	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast was amended in July 2019. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10a was legalized the setting of tents, caravans and campers outside the categorized campsites. Article 10a, para. 3 states that the conditions and arrangements for determining the places under para. 1, the rules and regulations for their establishment and use, as well as for their stay, shall be laid down by a regulation of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, of the Minister of Environment and Water and of the Minister of Tourism. The Regulation must be drawn up within six months of the entry into force of the amendments to the Tourism Act adopted at the end of February 2020. There is no such regulation currently being drawn up. It is true that the legislator has set a deadline by the end of August 2020, but this means that for the summer season 2020, there will be no regulation on the conditions, arrangements, rules and regulations for setting up and using the temporary use of tents, campers and caravans, and this is of particular importance for Black Sea municipalities. In this regard, my question to you is: which authorities will exercise control in the temporary location of tents, campers or caravans until the regulation is adopted? Once there are no conditions and arrangements for determining the places under art. 10a, para. 1 of the Black Sea Coast Construction Act, how do campers, outside the categorized campsites, choose the terrain to set up their tent or caravan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u20	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. Madam Minister, you have three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u21	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tishev, the topic on which you are putting your questions is undoubtedly up to date and has engaged the public attention for a long time. Years ago, in the creation of the independent institution of the Ministry of Tourism, my team and I launched a number of meetings between stakeholders to find common solutions for regulation of free camping. You are well aware that with my order a working group was created that worked hard, but, unfortunately, failed to find a common regulatory approach to be approved and engaged throughout this process. However, this does not mean that we have given up the intention to introduce clear and applicable rules for the development of camping tourism. You very specifically and correctly quote that in July last year the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast was amended. With art. 10a introduces the possibility of setting tents, caravans and campers outside the categorized campsites. It was in the interests of both tourists and Bulgarian municipalities and, above all, Black Sea municipalities that this legal provision was introduced. Since the development of the rules in the conditions of the tied competence of the four ministries leading by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, with participants: the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, the Ministry of Environment and Water and the Ministry of Tourism, it was necessary to extend the duration of work of the working group set up to prepare the draft regulation. All parties are extremely active in interdepartmental work, taking into account, of course, the views of the interested parties. The matter that is regulated is complex and requires detailed precision of the provisions. The actual situation is as follows: with the order of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works was established the interdepartmental working group with the task to prepare a draft regulation under art. 10a, para. from the Black Sea Coast Construction Act. According to another order of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, a time limit has been set for the development of the Project by 30 June 2020, with a view to complying with the deadline for issuing the Regulation, which by § 136 of the Transitional and Final Rules for amendment and supplement of the Tourism Act has been changed to six months since the entry into force of this Act. As of now, the draft regulation under art. 10a of the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast is developed in compliance with the statutory deadlines. Meetings of the Working Group were held on 28 February, on the 9th, on 19 June, and concluded on 24 June 2020 even in the context of remote work during the country's emergency situation as of 13 March 2020. The Ordinance will be published for public consultation as soon as possible. In conclusion, in response to the rest of your questions, I draw attention to the following: without an adopted and effective regulation setting out the conditions and arrangements for the temporary deployment of tents, campers or caravans, no places for terrains and camping should function outside the classifications under the Tourism Act. In accordance with art. 8 of the Law on Legislative Acts, any municipal council may issue a regulation to regulate the unarranged public relations of local importance, according to the regulations of a higher degree. On the territory of the municipalities there are regulations governing public relations related to ensuring public order, calmness and security of citizens, the preservation of municipal property, the environment and others. The authorities of the municipal administration and other institutions for the control and enforcement of sanctions are those who control compliance with public policy provisions and environmental protection. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u22	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Tishev, you're entitled to a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u23	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, first of all, I am not convinced that the lack of regulation stops the implementation of the Law. I would like to ask a few additional questions, as the working group seems to be working, but they do not have a final option to put up for public discussion: will the 25th of August be respected, given that the Minister of Regional Development has set a deadline for the preparation of the Draft Decree. How's work going in this task force anyway? And one more thing, there are campers right now who are not in the designated camping grounds. When they are on municipal land or in municipal forest, then municipalities must carry out the waste cleaning, which is at their expense, i.e. the municipal costs increase and there is no income. What happens to private property or, for example, the state forest fund, or state land, where there are also camping grounds, who will carry out the waste cleaning there, because this is definitely a big problem? Do municipalities have to do it again because they don't have budget revenues? These are my extra questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u24	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. You have no right to further questions. Madam Minister, if you wish, you can answer the additional questions if you have information? Are you guys gonna get the back or not? No. Thank you. I assume you'll give an answer to the MP outside the Chamber. [[Reply.]] It's not gonna happen in there. National Representative Dora Yankova's question on the summer tourist season for 2020 Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u25	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! My question is about the discussion so far, with the previous two colleagues, about the summer tourist season, which is extremely relevant. My focus is on helping the tourist industry. Part of the first question I received partial information, but my concern is: you know that up to now 12% of the gross domestic product of our economy is from tourism and a large group of Bulgarian citizens are employed in this sector. How do you look at him? Will there be a reduction there? Is gross domestic product going to fall? What are the forecasts of the Ministry and the government? A lot of people who are busy in the industry are currently serving loans. In the conversations you've had with the industry, do you have any concern that these loans may not be serviced? What is your information about the relations of the Development Bank and this branch? Is there any delayed loans? Are you following this trial here? Last but not least, I wish, by commenting on the industry, that you have confidence that you have the support of the state for enough attractive tourist advertising for Bulgaria, for the mountains, for the sea, for the balneotherapy. Not just for the summer season, but to give a horizon for Bulgaria by the end of the year, as a country of hospitality during the four seasons. There's actually a tremor in the industry. These measures I hear about are palliative and partial, but as a person representing the government, what is your opinion on this part of the issues?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. You've been extremely precise. You've finished your question in two minutes and one second. Madam Secretary, you have three minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u27	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yankova, thank you for your question. It is very similar to that of Mr. Ivanov, so in my exhibition I will build on the measures already presented. You know that the unprecedented situation of the pandemic and the limitation of the free movement of people worldwide inevitably led to the blocking of the sector of tourism. As a first and most important step, the foundation that we had to create and step on was to introduce rules for the functioning of the sector in the conditions of the new reality. A completely different reality has brought us to a number of difficulties, but, as is evident from the measures taken, we are doing everything possible to phase out the recovery of tourist activities. With the legislative changes adopted, we have provided liquidity for the business. Restarting the sector is becoming smooth and we are considering each next step with the clear awareness that the challenges ahead of us are not over. As I had the opportunity to outline earlier, I will once again note the main steps that we have taken in relation to the 12-month term of the measure 80/20, the subsidization of the chartered flights of 35 euros, the grant of financial assistance under the Operational Programme "Innovation and competitiveness" and interest-free lending to individuals, business lending to commercial banks through capitalization by the BBI, the development of a guarantee fund, the reduction of the VAT rate for the restaurant industry to 9%. In order to keep the levels of interest in Bulgaria as a secure destination for organized tourism, continuous communication with our partners is needed. I am in active dialogue and I am in constant contact with both our strategic partners and representatives of major tour operators, as well as with my fellow ministers from other EU Member States and with their business organisations. Bulgaria was one of the first countries to open their borders to tourists on June 1st, even having guests from 35 countries for which the country is open without quarantine. In May the Ministry of Tourism developed guidelines and guidelines for the activities of hotels, establishments, spas and balneo Objects, which are fully in line with the recommendations of the World Health Organization and the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, agreed with the Ministry of Health and with the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. As a specific measure for stimulating trips for the summer season 2020, we have also updated the advertising activities laid down in the Annual Programme for National Tourist Advertising. A strategic crisis program for advertising was developed to restore Bulgaria's position at national and international level. Focus in targeting and implementing Bulgaria with the promotion of domestic tourism; neighbouring countries; European markets suggesting land travel or plane travel, which are traditionally targeted markets for incoming tourism. Bulgaria's advertising campaigns are under way in four main targeted markets... Balkan countries, Israel, Scandinavian region, Germany, Visegrad Four. The country is also advertised on leading world channels such as BBC, CNN, Euronews, National Geographic. Despite a very limited advertising budget compared to our direct competitors, we manage to propose an effective approach by optimizing communication activities. Another tool for increasing the attendance of sites and accommodations in our country is the help to use basic tourist services for domestic tourism, amounting to 210 BGN. The vouchers for people on the first line who are at risk and working to combat the coronavirus infection. Apart from that, we have foreseen and included in our advertising campaign all other major markets such as Ukraine, the Russian Federation, Moldova, of course, will launch the advertising campaign very actively using the direct sales method at the moment when the uncarantious journey with these countries is launched, because at the moment each country is doing the same thing, we are all advertising. In order for us to have focus, we need targeting and it is achieved with direct work with the tour operators operating on our market and by the direct sales method. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u28	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mrs. Yankova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u29	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, there is a bright side to what you said. Yes, with regard to tourists outside the opportunities to travel, the support of charters is good, but I have concerns about our domestic Bulgarian tourism. I will again share: I am very worried about what is being done in a complex way to see the industry itself in its entirety. Since you are part of the Bulgarian government, I would like to make you some proposals. During the state of emergency, we suggested that mothers who raise children should be given a minimum wage. For three months, the kids stayed home, the moms got nothing. My proposal is: engage the government, you have a voting mandate by parliament and financial resources, from 1 July started the season by the end of the year give a voucher of 600 BGN. to any family that has a child, so that they can go to rest on the sea, whether on the mountain, whether where there are mineral springs or other Bulgarian destinations, but in Bulgaria. Because we take care of health that, first, is health for children, the family that has been closed. This is a reversal of financial resources, funds in the tourism industry and in parallel with this return in the fissure. Next, I would like to turn from this tribune to all Bulgarian citizens this year. Let us show more solidarity as Bulgarians to support our industry. I would like to invite them to the Rhodope Mountains, where my electoral area is, and to all Bulgarian mountains, as well as to the Bulgarian Black Sea coast, the balneotherapy. I believe that in such cases the nation is on trial and we have the opportunity with this solidarity to support our economy. I am finished, Mr. President. I also turn to the tourism industry to be at the level of modern service of Bulgarian citizens. You were talking about the tourist commercial. Be more aggressive as advertising, because this is important to our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. In fact, the recommendations seemed to be not to the Minister of Tourism, but if you wish, take your right to the duplicate, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u31	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yankova, thank you for your recommendations and support for the call for the sector and Bulgarian citizens. Everyone's support is extremely important. I also use the opportunity to inform about something very important related to balneo and spa tourism, health tourism, which, apart from the Bulgarian mountains and our wonderful mountain regions, is important for the territory of the whole country. Last year, we developed seven balneo and spa routes, and at the end of September, we achieved a huge.... I would call it a historic success by signing a contract with the German Health Fund Association. This year, this is very important, which I would like to inform you about, we have launched a targeted advertising campaign with German health insurance companies about the possibility of German health insurance individuals visiting Bulgaria and, respectively, certified according to our laws, both state and private bases and being able to use their health vouchers in Bulgaria. One of the destinations certainly passes through the Rhodope region, of course, and the Bulgarian Black Sea coast. This is also a very important and serious focus in our work. Thank you for your attention and support.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u32	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We move on to questions to the Minister of Environment and Water Mr. Emil Dimitrov. The first question will be asked by Mr. Stoyan Bojinov about the aviation noise from Sofia airport. Here you go, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u33	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, for years we have observed the conduct of night flights to and from Sofia Airport. The intensity of these flights has increased in recent years. Planning and conducting regular flights in the range from 23:00 to 6:00 is prohibited under this point. 5 of EIA Decision No 20-5 of 2001 concerning the implementation of the development project at Sofia Airport. Dear Minister, in relation to the above, my questions to you are as follows: why are night flights allowed and no measures taken to comply with EIA Decision No 20-5 of 2001? Why is flying over the city also allowed in cases where there is no objective prerequisite for flight safety? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u34	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Bojinov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The realization of the project - Reconstruction, development and extension of Sofia Airport - Lot B2. A new track system, taxiways and related works was authorised on 10 April 2001 by the EIA Decision of the Minister for Environment and Water. It's been a long time since. All safety and noise systems have changed many times. The Decision lays down conditions which are mandatory for the execution of the investor: Ministry of Transport and Communications It has conditions for the submission to the Ministry of Health of documents for the implementation of procedures for the definition of hygienic protection zone around the site. Another condition requires that the investor assigns the designation of areas corresponding to the noise contour for noise value above 90 decibel noise noise. According to the Decision, no flights over the city shall be allowed except those regulated by the Air Navigation Information and publication. In view of the conditions in the 2001 EIA Decision not to plan regular flights from and to Sofia airport between 23:00 and 6:00 on 9 April 2002, the Minister of Environment and Water issued a decision on its confirmation setting out a new condition for admission - an exception only for special mode flights and enhanced security measures at a frequency of not more than one flight per night and not more than two flights per week, strictly applicable by the State-owned undertaking The Minister of Environment and Water is not a competent authority responsible for flight safety and does not control aircraft flights from and to Sofia Airport. The Environmental Protection Act sets out the competences of state authorities and local self-government bodies. The Minister of Environment and Water controls noise emitted from industrial installations and facilities and in agreement with the Minister of Health organises environmental noise reporting to international organisations. The Minister for Transport, Information Technology and Communications, through designated offices, controls the main airports on noise emitted in the environment as a result of their activity. This means control of Sofia airport, as the threshold of 50 thousand take-offs and landings per year has been passed in 2017. In this regard, a strategic noise map has been developed from Sofia Airport, approved by the Order of the Minister of Health in 2019 and the information on the map is publicly available on the airport site. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications should entrust the development of an action plan for the noise map, which should contain an analysis of the current state, forecasts and measures to reduce and prevent noise associated with exceeding the limits of an environmental indicator in the area of Sofia airport. The draft action plan is presented for public consultation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u36	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. In other words, this issue should be addressed to the Minister of Transport. Mr. Bojinov, will you use a line? No.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u37	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u38	If there's no line, there can't be a duplicate, but you can make a statement as a minister. Are you speaking as a minister, Mr. Dimitrov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u39	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u40	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u41	The noise problem is a problem that I understood when I arrived from the countryside in 1970. In school we even stopped testing us and talking while the planes were passing, but it was 1970. It is understandable that you, coming from Petrich to Sofia, have noticed in the term residence that there are planes. My recommendation is to contact the National Assembly's leadership to provide you with a termal residence for example in the "Motopista" or the "Tsar Boris" in the "Krasna Polyana" (Krasna Polyana). I made an inquiry: they don't pass planes, they won't disturb sleep and peace. From there in emergency situations, when it is in danger to passengers, the planes I suppose will pass over Sofia for a very long time in case of necessity, but the modern standards should be applied to be much quieter, at the last moment to approach and land with a much more different trajectory, which I think Sofia Airport applies. Ninety percent of the time, the planes go around and land on Elin Pelin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u42	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. For a second question, I give the floor to the MPs Evdokiya Asenova and Lyubomir Bonev regarding the permission to restore the emergency water supply to the town of Radomir from the captage of Vreloto..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Who's gonna bring it up? Here you are, Mrs. Asenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u43	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, the town of Radomir has a population of 14,500 inhabitants and is supplied by several water sources serving three water supply zones high, low and medium. According to the recommendation of the VIK, Pernik and with orders of the mayor of Radomir municipality from December last year for high-rise water supply and from the beginning of February this year for low-zone. Despite the measures taken, the water supply in the city is not normal and the water supply system of the city faces a serious risk. It turns out that Radomir may be the second city in Pernik region as a result of the coming summer season, which will prove to be dire due to a water crisis. Therefore, at the beginning of June, the mayor of the municipality of Radomir sent a request to the Ministry of Environment and Water, in which he asked for a refund of the permission for emergency water use by the captage of Vreloto. My question to you is: why does the Ministry of Environment and Water refuse to renew the permission to use the captage via the pumping station to the town of Radomir. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Asenova. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Asenova, Mr. Bonev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Until recently, there was a crisis in Pernik. A lot of people have forgotten about her in just two weeks. Until recently, the dam was empty. A lot of people have forgotten it in just two weeks. Until recently, in all newspapers and websites, it said that it was deliberately destroyed, so that it would not be found that there was unscathed, without permission for many years it was accurate water and went to Radomir without a water meter and without any reading. Water which, according to the architectural plan and the project, must feed the dam, which until recently was empty. In practice, your question is: after a short time without a warrant, the dam was drained and left empty, what do we do to repeat it again? And wouldn't you agree to re-sign to get into a situation: when there is no water, the whole city says, "Where is our water, who drank it for us?" Get to the point. In Pernik, we are not currently feeding water to the TPP. I am sure that in the autumn you will all ask: what is going on with the steam and hot water, because the water must come from somewhere also for the thermal power plant? Do you agree to have no hot and steamy water in the fall? Has the City Council made such a decision? We're not passing water to the steel factory right now. This factory won't work. So we have to say: the dam is sized for this city and several villages, and there are two capacities that are connected, we will stop these capacities, we have water problems, but it is given elsewhere. What's the problem in the other place? There are 25 water sources that only use one of them. Can't you hook us up to the dam because we don't want to use our 25? It's easier to make another drilling, it's easier to rebuild your drilling and use them than to hook up to a dam. If this dam is sized to these capacities and more cities are attached to it, who will be responsible? If you think it's me, it won't happen. I carry out the plans the way the designer once did. You can't go to the dams that the MoEW is responsible for, and only in water terms, everyone can turn the taps wherever they want and join whatever they want just because a city has decided not to recover its net, someone else is to blame and hang themselves to the first dam that has just filled up. Get to the point. The following underground water sources are used for the water supply of the town of Radomir: spring "Sirenakite" with a permit issued on 27 October 2009; spring "Guryanitsa", "Rest chapter", "Opalovo" and "Izvora" without the necessary permissions under the Water Act. You have enough, you don't take out your permits for them, because you're waiting to hook up to another dam, because it's convenient for the whole country to hang on the dams that are full and to dump its own water sources. The total annual resource limit of these water sources, which is authorised and which you have, is 4 million. 103,000. a cube, or 11,240,000. Cube. daily. The population of the town of Radomir is about 15 thousand inhabitants. At a rate of 200 litres per day according to Regulation No 4 of 2005 to ensure the drinking water supply of the city is required 3000 thousand. L. For 4 million You have 11,000, but you use 3,000, but you don't have them either. Visible from the above analysis, the resource in the springs used for the water supply of the town of Radomir is more than three times the amount needed for the normal water supply of the city's population. In this regard, there is no quantitative need to transfer additional water from the spring through the pump station. Apart from that, the Water and Environment Ministry, the water facility at the captage of the Sea has been destroyed and so far there is no such technical possibility. Karstov Vreloto is located in the watery area of the dam Studena and through self-existence the waters form part of the drain of the river Struma. Over the watery dam of Studena dam it is filled from there. The town of Pernik and settlements in the municipality are supplied by Studena dam. In order to increase the flow to the dam, waters are transferred from the river Iskar by means of built canals: "Palakarian," "Vladayski" there are two rivers: Mutiny and Kladishka.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u46	This is no longer relevant to the question asked, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u47	I got it. I'm done. So at this stage, the Municipal Council in Pernik must allow first to pass the water, but because you are making an analogy with Sofia, Sofia has only allowed passage of water, but the water is from Pernik must give his own water to take the risk when they want such a thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u48	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Who's gonna use a line? Mr. Bonev, you've never stopped talking from the spot. You have the right to speak from the stands for two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u49	Well, you're gonna give me a little bit more. The minister answers for four minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u50	I doubt it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u51	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Mr. Minister, on September 20th last year I asked from this stand for Pernik on September 20th, from this very platform. You were right in that part of the room. Then everyone underestimated the situation in Pernik. We've seen the scale of the Pernik water crisis. Yeah, Studena Dam is full. Studena Reservoir is 21 million. Cube. m. We hope that the water supply in Pernik has already been normalized. It is also normalized. Now about the thermal power plant and the steel system you mentioned. After all, it is within your authority to permit or not to allow water. But I will address you with the fact that Radomir may be in the footsteps of the town of Pernik. In all likelihood, as you said yourself, there is no longer a possibility to pass water to the city of Radomir because the water holding facility itself has been violated. You have told us how many springs there are in Radomir, what water sites there are, but I would like to draw your attention to you, Mr Minister, that ultimately the responsibility for Radomir having or not having water is both with you in the Ministry of Environment and Water and in the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, as well as in the Water Association, which operates in the territory of Pernik region. Because in the rights of the Association is sustainable use of water and its conservation, storage, development and modernization of the water systems and facilities, ensuring the needs of the population of the separate territory of the quality water service. Somehow by referring to the Municipal Council in Pernik, you simply have to pay attention and you have to follow the legislative arrangement and the hierarchy of the state administration and the executive, because it is not right to happen in Radomir what happened in Pernik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u52	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! We have a mayor who has three terms. Out of 25 water sources he fixed one and should be responsible for the Minister of Environment and Water. We have the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, which is responsible for the water services throughout the country, we have an Association with 1 billion budget, we have a water supply, we have Pernik, Association, and ultimately that one high block and three streets with one-storey houses cannot get water, the Ministry of Environment and Water should be concerned. The Ministry of Environment and Water has no companies, no water, no services, no construction. The Ministry of Environment and Water distributes the resource, it has always been allocated to Pernik according to this dam. It is understandable, given that we have filled you this year over 85%, that everyone wants to hang on to them all, but every single hanging is in time to infinity. You might want Kyustendil tomorrow. To date, it seems to you that the dam is full, but it is already empty because the flow has decreased. And if this dam with the organization so created has already been empty once, now you want to repeat absolutely everything and no one to be responsible. There's no one to sign you to hang where, when, whatever you want just because you don't want to recover your network, your water sources. Three years or three terms someone has watched and now suddenly someone from Sofia has to come and adopt him. This happened to Pernik once. It is understandable that you have made a good campaign, the same work to do in Radomir, only that we are responsible for the water resources. It's meant for the town of Pernik. The dam was built for the town of Pernik and all the illegal diversions that have occurred so far have been cut off. If you want someone to redo illegal diversions, someone to sweep unfinished business from someone else, it's not us. If a billion-dollar association can't make another drilling or check the old ones, let's do one with two billion. If the city of Pernik believes that Radomir should take unspoiled water from the citizens of Pernik, go out and tell them that to the Perniks. You've been very concerned about Pernik, but until yesterday, you've been away in the quest for responsibility and carrying one. I want to tell you that the Ministry of Environment and Water deals with 52 significant dams. If we're gonna get this guy off the list, you're gonna have to come in. It cannot be something that has been foreseen and worked for 50 years in one way only because someone feels more comfortable or does not want to do their job, to transfer their responsibility to us. Everyone in the country will want to hang on to these 16 dams. I know because they're full because we're responsible for them, but that's not the solution. Anyone who doesn't have water or doesn't want to use pumps, come to the dam. This is already happening in many places in the country... we cannot tolerate it. And the City Council is responsible for Pernik.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u54	Thank you, Minister! Thank you for your attractive participation! Enjoy your work until the end of the day and especially enjoy your rest. We address questions addressed to the Minister of Education and Science Mr. Krasimir Valchev. The first question is from the MPs Evdokiya Asenova and Veska Nencheva regarding the non-payment of the additional payments of teachers agreed with collective labor contracts. Please state your question, Ms. Nencheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u55	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Minister, the matter had its statute of limitations about a month ago. For a number of reasons, we're going to ask it now. It is associated, of course, with adequate payment in the educational system, because despite the high public rating of teachers, right during the pandemic, their work is once again underestimated and undervalued. A national survey by Syndicate "Education" at KT "Supporta" conducted among 5,000 teachers gives the following results from the survey, which found that 56.4% of school teachers were not paid lectures, 8.5% were partially paid and only 30.9% were fully paid. Worse still seems the attitude towards pre-school teachers, where 80.8% did not receive payments on 24 May, 11% received normal rates and only 8.2% of the working pedagogical specialists received the agreed prize, which does not impress by size but demonstrates recognition. Our question to you is: is there information about the Ministry of Education and Science how many of the directors have not paid the agreed payments to the employment contract, what is the reason for this, and what is the number of the wronged teachers so that we do not return to the definition that we just said about the high public rating of teachers but underestimated and underestimated in pay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u56	Thank you, Ms. Nencheva. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u57	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Ms. Nencheva, dear Mrs. Asenova, you cannot in any way say that this government and the Ministry in any way did not appreciate the teachers. Perhaps your reproach was on some directors of educational institutions because, you know, schools have delegated budgets. The very fact that this year 1 billion more is provided for remuneration compared to 2017 is the best attestation. Such growth has not occurred in the previous decades, both in terms of average income in the country and nominally. Yes, we were indeed in a difficult situation, quite different from that of normalizing and paying labour. The whole regulation is based on the principle that teachers work in the classroom, in school or in kindergarten, is bound by a norm of teaching work, with the hours in the curriculum, respectively by supplementing the norm under the lecture or higher remuneration at a higher norm than teaching work. When working in an electronic environment, this could not be applied as a one-to-one principle or completely equivalent because one part of the teachers and students were unable to work in synchronous form and applied asynchronous training methods. Therefore, we needed the norms that make an exception in the Law on Measures and Activities in Emergency, respectively the principle that we wrote in my order, was if the teacher reported 5 hours of work in an electronic environment, to align it to one day of study or 25 hours per week, respectively, on an average day. What does it mean to equalize? To be aligned regardless of how much he worked and what hours he had in order not to make a whole new arrangement of their employment, not to sign additional agreements on employment relations. The practice of the first days showed that this principle is good and works. From then on, there was a misunderstanding with regard to lecturers. We said with explicit instructions that lecturers should be paid if they are due in a normal situation, i.e. there should be a complete alignment. As for the additional remuneration for holidays, you know that such is regulated in a collective contract and in the internal rules on salary in the relevant schools. The collective employment contract, which, by the way, is signed between employers and trade unions, is the signed by me as Minister of Education, respectively as the Ministry. In this way we stand behind these commitments and complement it with content, saying that it is a kind of pact for social partnership. In this sense, we have also supported all the commitments that are in this collective contract, and we also want them to be implemented, but there are no mandatory amounts, and there are not only three of these additional salaries. For example, I will tell you that many schools pay for 1 November, some have paid for Easter such extra wages. In short, I may then be able to continue and provide you with the specific data from our research. But in general, what you have provided in the public domain Syndicate is not entirely credible and representative, it does not coincide with our information on the additional remuneration paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u58	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Asenova, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u59	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, the question to you was quite specific. If I understand you correctly, in the line you will give the specific data. I agree with you that the collective employment agreement has a rather commendable nature and employers are in a position to assess how much, when and how much to encourage colleagues. But against the backdrop of the fact that we all agreed on an excellent assessment of the work of our educational system under emergency conditions, in my opinion, the directors who are subordinate to the Ministry have taken the liberty of saving themselves from paying the work of colleagues who worked far more than these regulated five hours with your order. It is unacceptable and even offensive to the profession, to the responsibility, to the empathy that everyone has shown in this new situation for us. And I very much hope that when three parties agree on some conditions, they will comply with the arrangements under this treaty. I agree with you that perhaps five thousand teachers who have joined the poll are not representative enough. I look forward to your response, perhaps on a sample of the entire college. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Asenova. Mr. Minister, the doppelganger, two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u61	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Asenova, from the information available from 2334 municipal public schools and centers for support for personal development, it has been found that from the beginning of the year until now 76% have paid additional wages for an official holiday. Just one note to what you said: the collective employment contract is mandatory for the parties who have signed it, but the allocation of additional wage between the different payments is not mandatory. A large part of schools in recent years have refrained from paying larger amounts for 24 May and put them off for later dates during the year.. most often 15 September and Christmas, because then they have more predictability for the implementation of the budget. This year, you know, they had extra costs, and they also had savings in their budget, but for one part of the schools the savings will come to them, for example, with the countervailable accounts, the ones that use the "Topplofication" so that at a later stage they will have them. Fifteen percent of all point to the insufficient budget as a reason for not paying. The other 9% have pointed out other reasons, such as: they will pay additional wages for other public holidays or at the beginning of the year, there is a temporary shortage of funds due to payment of benefits or advance of projects, and after their reimbursement they will pay additional wages; moral considerations and solidarity with the municipal administration and the people left unemployed during the emergency situation; additional costs related to the emergency situation; in May they have paid other amounts for representative clothing and prizes. Regarding the non-payment of additional wage for the time of work at a distance, 78% of schools paid a lecturer, 7% did not have a payment due to the lack of such hours in the Model No 1 list and 15% indicated that they were working asynchronously or otherwise failed to perform and report lecture hours. I agree that we have a commitment, so we have control. Sometimes we cannot carry out such quick and comprehensive control, but in any case, our recommendation is that all schools pay the additional remuneration and they remain due by employment. The remuneration of the classroom managers for consulting parents and students, conducted on school documentation, was paid 87% in schools and in the remaining 13% were not carried out such activities because they worked asynchronously and did not work in an electronic environment. With regard to kindergartens, I refer here to schools, but not the preschool education system, there is indeed a higher percentage of non-payment. We have not gathered information about them, but it should be borne in mind that most of the time they have not worked. Even those who worked worked under 50% of the time. In this sense, the additional wage has reason to be postponed and because of the fact that we cannot say that they have further contributed to their usual remuneration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u62	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to the Minister of Education and Science is from the National Representative Irena Anastasova on the National External Assessment of Bulgarian Language and Literature for the 7th grade, held on 15 June 2020. Here you are, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u63	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Valchev, module 2 of the National External Assessment in Bulgarian Language and Literature for the 7th grade, held on 15 June this year, the selected work for re-story is a text from the novel. From signals to me from the parents of seventh graders, as well as from publications in the media it is clear that this text is present in a textbook in Bulgarian language of the publishing house "Prosveta" with authors Vesela Mihailova, Yovka Tisheva, Russian Stancheva, Borislav Borisov. This means that for some of the students who, according to the choice of their teachers, have studied according to the specific textbook of the publishing house, the test is familiar. My question to you is: what is the opinion of the Ministry of Education and Science on the cited case? Do you think that in this way the seventh graders in the country are placed on equal terms when conducting the National External Assessment in Bulgarian and Literature? What measures will you take against the employees responsible for what happened as well as the injured students? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u65	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Anastasova, one note: You said textbook. It's not about a textbook, it's about a textbook. There are hundreds of notebooks, aids, collections, electronic resources that are not mandatory, are not approved by the Ministry of Education and students do not necessarily study them. The case itself was presented to me on June 16th. I immediately referred to the Inspectorate at the Ministry. On the 18th, they started checking in. I was presented with the inspection report yesterday. I'm ready to give it to you. We can sum up what I said to myself at the first moment is that it's probably just a coincidence, but at the same time it leaves doubt, we have to rethink. There may be a leak from the Ministry, so we've ordered a check. Unfortunately, the Inspectorate is very difficult to prove. So basically, let me tell you what the fact is. In previous years, there were similar coincidences, but they were not in notebooks or aids to large publishers. Perhaps the fact that it has helped a large publishing company to a greater extent makes an impression, which, on the other hand, justifies that it may be an accident. Secondly, we're not talking about total coincidence. The two texts are not entirely identical. The study book is also in the exam, the exam is with layoffs, the task requires a detailed recap. Are they privileged students? We even heard the opposite opinion that they were wronged because they studied on a text that was not completely identical and were confused, so much could be argued over. If we look specifically at the results of this problem, unfortunately, they are lower than last year by two points, that is, at least we can say that many students have not been better prepared than last year. Either way, the text does not require learning. I'm telling you again, even if a student has studied in it, we're risking that he didn't teach it the right way. To a much greater extent we are trying to adjust the tests to measure functional literacy, to measure intelligence, the ability to extract information, and, in this case, to repeat skills. In this sense, I note that there was no inequality between the students. What the results of the check show I will give them to you with the condition that they still contain personal data and should not be published, but for your information we do have gaps which the Inspectorate found in the regulation of the procedure for storing the examination materials. The topic itself is in the base since 2015, the notebook is from 2018, it is one of the topics that are drawn randomly. We checked the other topics, no matches with any other notebooks. What we can fear is that this thing can happen again, so I will propose as part of these regulations that the Inspectorate recommends to the Ministry must sign up to review all the resources or at least the large publishers so that we do not have such coincidences in the coming years again, although partial coincidences. And the other thing to keep in mind is that these are still popular authors. The Mormarev brothers can be seen in many other notebooks, though not...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u66	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. Mrs. Anastasova, a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u67	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Minister, competent administrative authorities for organizing, preparing and conducting national external assessments are the Minister of Education and the Director of the Centre for Evaluation in pre-school and school education, which is a specialized service unit within the meaning of art. 50, para. 1, t. 4 of the Law. The Centre shall be tasked with activities to organise, prepare and conduct internal and external evaluation, including by developing examination materials for various types of examinations, including national external evaluation, and at the same time supporting the development of examination materials for ongoing tests. That is, the staff and experts at the Centre not only can, but also are obliged to know the materials on which the current evaluation is carried out in schools and to comply with this when preparing the examination materials for the National External Assessment. The approved model for national external evaluation in Bulgarian language and literature includes a task to create a text with the following didactic task: "Read the text on unlearned artwork, write a detailed re-story on behalf of a neutral narrator, on behalf of a specified character. However, I think that it should include all the works and excerpts of works included in the additional teaching aids on which students worked at school. The training aids shall be included in the ongoing evaluation training process. The texts contained in these aids should therefore be excluded from the test materials we are talking about. That is, all students are put in an untrained language situation, which in this case does not happen, all the more so, that it is not a study aid, which may be, but may not be used. It's a textbook for a textbook of the "Prosvetsa". It is clear to those working in the system that almost all teachers in the training process use textbooks to study textbooks. In this way, I think that by placing such a task on a text included in the study book of the Publishing House "Prosvetsa". 1945, a basic principle, referred to in art. 3, para. 2, p. 4 et c. 9 of the Law "Equality and non-discrimination in pre-school and school education." Thank you for giving an inspection to the Inspectorate of the Ministry of Education, but in parents, Mr. Minister, there really remains the feeling, however much we explain to them that the text is not the same, that in the textbook the tasks on the text may have been different, that in fact some of the children, and not a small part, because we know that a lot of students in Bulgaria are studying in the textbooks of. And for me, that's really unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. Mr. Minister, the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u69	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Anastasova, I didn't have seconds to finish what I said, in my opinion, we think it should be taken as an action. The first is what you have proposed, and I agree with you to check them out, they are hundreds of resources, but at least the big publishers, at least the notebooks and the main aids can be checked and excluded these texts. This has not been done so far. To include less popular authors, because the probability of matching with some more popular author is greater and accordingly to regulate full rules for storage choices. What you will see in the report is that there are indeed gaps in this procedure.. It has simply not been regulated so far. As Minister, I have not been involved in determining the final exam options in these three years, nor have I had access to them. This is what I think is best when we talk about the political leadership of the Ministry, which gives me reason to carry out the inspection. Again, I tell you that the results are unfortunately lower, that is to say, a large number of children have received no advantage from this, but also the texts are not different. No matter how much they've studied it, if they don't have the common intelligence, the communicative competence that's acquired not from a single lesson, using or not a notebook, but is acquired for seven that and more years in preschool age. It's very unlikely they got that advantage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u70	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. For a third question to the Minister of Education and Science again I give the floor to the National Representative Irena Anastasova on the dismissal of Dobrin Parnarov St. Cyril and Methodius "Topolovgrad." Here you are, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u71	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, on 17 June 2020 of Dobrin Georgiev Parnarov, Senior Teacher at the Primary School. St. Cyril and Methodius "Topolovgrad" has been awarded an order for dismissal under art. 328, para. 1, t. Art. 2 and Art. 2 190, para. 1, t. 3 of the Labour Code, according to the very commandment which was given to me. Given that Mr. Parnarov is Chairman of the Municipal Coordination Council of the Independent Teachers' Union in Topolovgrad, and that he himself has a decision of TELK, and taking into account the citation in the order of these incompatible for me two members, in which he was dismissed, I believe that dismissal is tendential and politically motivated. My question to you is: what is your opinion on the case cited?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u73	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Anastasova, regarding the dismissal of Mr. Dobryn Parnarov, Senior Teacher at the Primary School. St. Cyril and Methodius "Topolovgrad," from the Regional Education Management in Haskovo, a check has been carried out. On 17 June 2020, Mr. Parnarov was found to have been given an order for termination of employment with motives............................................................................................... The review committee found violations of the Director concerning the termination procedure. For the infringements identified, the Head of Regional Education Management has issued an order with compulsory prescriptions to the Director of the School, namely upon the request of written explanations by the employee on the basis of the relevant provision of the Labour Code to indicate the intruder, the infringement and when it was committed. When issuing the order for termination of employment of the employee, the relevant legal basis has not been used, but if more than one basis is used, as in the case of a reduction in the state, before issuing the order for termination of employment the employee should have been selected and an opinion received from the Executive Agency. The examination carried out did not establish a trendy and politically motivated behaviour by the Director towards the fired employee or discriminatory treatment of Mr. Parnarov, which is expressed in unequal treatment. A competent authority in this matter shall be the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. Under the Labour Code, Mr. Parnarov has the right to challenge the legality of the dismissal before the employer or before the court in order to claim recognition of the dismissal for illegal and its annulment. There is no such request at this time on his part. The termination of the employment relationship with the pedagogical specialist is a labour dispute. In the Labour Code, the legislator has given legal determination of labour disputes. These are disputes between the employee or employee and the employer about the occurrence, existence, execution and termination of employment. The Court and the Executive Agency are the bodies for carrying out a comprehensive control of compliance with labour law in all sectors and activities. The Minister of Education and Science has no legal authority to rule on complaints against termination of the employment relations of pedagogical specialists who worked in the institutions of pre-school and school education. What we could do through our structures, the regional managements of education, is done. I suppose the results of this examination will be taken into account by the other institutions, mostly by the court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u74	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Anastasova, you're entitled to a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u75	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Minister, from the moment I saw the order, I was the director for 13 years and I had appointed and fired a lot of people, it was clear to me that if there was a complaint by Mr. Parnarov in court, the court would not even look at this case in substance because there was a demonstration of incompetence. Rather, the question I asked was in order to refer you to what powers of directors are involved. I thank you for your appointment and thank you for your reply. There is no doubt in my mind that Mr. Parnarov will win this case if he wants to take it, but the case is that Mr. Parnarov is a long-standing director of this school, and a good director. For health reasons, he himself applies for leave and remains just a teacher at the school. Do we have so many teachers, so lightly are we treating the incompetence of directors because how can you call firing a teacher because of a decrease in the volume of work without selecting, as you quoted from your examination, firing a president of a municipal union organization without asking for her opinion, firing a person with TelK without asking for an opinion from the Labour Inspection?! If this isn't incompetence, then it's really political some kind of persecution! I cannot admit that there may be a school director in Bulgaria who has such a level of competence that it will thus terminate the employment relationship! Thanks for checking up on me. I hope Mr. Parnarov will eventually file a case and take advantage of a fair verdict from the court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. You don't want a double, Mr. Secretary. Thank you for your participation. Have a good day! We move on to a question to the Minister of Energy Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova, who must answer the question of the MPs Georgi Gokov, Manol Genov, Veska Nencheva, Dragomir Stoinev and Georgi Tarnovaliski regarding the issued permission No 524 of 13 December 2019 to..Dundee Precious Metals Chelopech.................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Who's gonna bring it up? Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Madam Minister, from the Ministry you are leading has been granted permission by the "Dundee Precious Metals Chelopech" for the search and investigation of metal mining in the area of St. Nicholas, as the President said, located on the territory of two districts of Stara Zagora and Plovdiv, and five municipalities. The procedure described in the Law on Underground Treasures does not require prior coordination of the requested areas for search and investigation with the representatives of the local authorities on whose territory it is located, but in anyone referring to this legal provision, there remains doubt whether the principles of publicity and transparency are respected. You know that concessions and the fulfilment of their obligations related to the financial parameters of the concession contract and environmental protection enjoy a huge and special public and media interest, and the biggest challenge facing the gold mining industry is its reputation and ability to gain public confidence and support, showing that this is a responsible business and that it applies practices that do not harm the environment. Next comes the creation of economic advantages for local communities. Unfortunately, due to objective and subjective reasons in Bulgarian society there is largely no confidence in this mining industry. Last but not least, an irritater is the concession fee. Bulgarian society is mostly convinced that this remuneration is too low, and exploiting our underground wealth from foreign companies is a threat to our national security. There is no economic balance between the benefits and risks to the State and the concessionaire, it is also doubtful whether the Ministry effectively controls the implementation of concession contracts. Any such authorisation, especially on such large areas, could not help not to cause a serious reaction and resistance from the local population and the eco-organizations. They fear that even in the study there is a risk of pollution of the natural environment and water. Local people are outraged that the mayors of municipalities and municipal councils have not been notified and their opinion on the issue has not been sought. They fear that such a concession would violate the biological diversity of the plant and animal world and that all of this will directly and indirectly affect the livelihood of those living in the municipalities, and it is a special... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u78	To the questions, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u79	I'm moving on to the questions. ...mineral springs, spa tourism, rose production. People are hopeful that in institutions, including yours, the mind will prevail. I know there's been a development on this, but the problem remains. In this regard, because of the serious and growing discontent, we ask you to answer the questions: what are the possibilities for the suspension of the granted permission of.................Dundee Precious Metals Chelopech.......................................................... Provided positive results are obtained from the upcoming research activities, but at the same time, will you allow for the registration of a commercial discovery of the excavation of underground wealth? And what would be the losses of the State with positive demand results and refusal by the State to register the business discovery for extraction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u80	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Nencheva, Mr. Gokov, Mr. Genov, Mr. Stoinev, Mr. Turnovalyski! Authorization No 524 of 13 December 2019 for the search and investigation of metal minerals in the area of St. Nicholas (St. Nicholas) located on the territory of the municipalities of Stara Zagora, Kazanlak, Pavel Banya, Brothers Daskalovi and Brezovo in the territory of the districts of Stara Zagora and Plovdiv, was issued on the basis of a protocol decision on this matter. 24 of Protocol No 40 of a meeting of the Council of Ministers held on 2 October 2019. The authorisation was granted after the regulatory coordination procedures laid down in art. 26, para. 1 of the Law on Underground Treasures with the competent ministers for the protection of the national security and defence of the country, for protected by law territories, objects and cultural values, as well as by the order of art. 32 of the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers and its administration with the members of the Council of Ministers. In the coordination procedures carried out, no opinions have been received from the listed competent authorities on the basis of which to justify the refusal to grant the requested permit for the search and exploration of underground wealth in the area of St. Nicholas. The Ministry of Energy has complied with the provisions of art. 41, para. 1 of the Law on Underground Treasures, issued with permission No 524 of 13 December 2019 was announced in the municipality of Stara Zagora, Kazanlak, Pavel Banya and Brothers Daskalovi, as well as in the municipality of Brezovo, Plovdiv. Also published in the Official Journal of the European Union, issue 6 of 21 January 2020. Within the prescribed 14-day period for appeal at the Ministry of Energy, no complaints have been received against the administrative act issued. In accordance with Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union of the European Union shall have jurisdiction over the provisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union and of the Court of Justice of the European Union and of the Court of Justice of the European Union. 56, para. 1 of the Law on Underground Treasures are fully listed the grounds in which the granting of a search or survey authorisation is refused. In the present case, none of the statutory grounds for refusal are available. In view of the growing public discontent, as you have also mentioned, by letter dated 17 June 2020, on the basis of art. 156, para. 1 of the Administrative Procedure Code, the holder of the Administrative Procedure Code, the holder of the Act, the owner of Dundee Precious Metals Chelopech-EAD, stated that he was refusing to sign a search and study contract, respectively gave consent to withdrawal of Permission No 524 from 13 December 2019. In this regard, I would like to recall the following: according to art. 21, para. 7, p. 2 of the Law on Underground Treasures a certificate of a commercial discovery made on the site of underground riches can only be issued after the holder of an environmental impact assessment (EIA) decision is granted, which approves the implementation, or the decision not to carry out an EIA on the investment proposal for extraction and primary processing of underground riches issued under the Law on Environmental Protection. An EIA decision which does not approve the implementation of the investment proposal for the extraction and primary processing of underground wealth provides for a motivated refusal of the Minister of Energy of the requested registration of a commercial discovery of a field of underground wealth, which, in turn, prevents the holder's right to declare a concession for the extraction of underground riches under the terms and conditions of art. 29 of the Underground Treasures Act. At present, the potential acquirer has withdrawn its proposal.. deposit an official letter to the Ministry of Energy, give its consent and the authorisation in question has been withdrawn. So at present, all the questions that you have raised are virtually not standing. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] However, in order for such a intention to be a fact, there must be a mandatory positive environmental impact assessment. And in the EIA assessment, all citizens would have the opportunity, and have this opportunity, to express their positions, to state their concerns and to express their opinion accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u82	Thank you. Mr. Gokov, I take it you won't take your cue? They've given up already, so... You want to say something? Here you are, you're entitled to two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! I know there has been a development in this matter, I know about the refusal of the permit to study the "Dundee Precious Metals Chelopech" EAD, but the people in this area who live in these five municipalities, very recently on 26 June, have created an initiative committee to see if this will happen. For example, they do not believe that rejection is official. Madam Minister, we have brought her to Bulgaria that no one trusts anyone. Maybe it's okay for you, as Minister of the Ministry, to issue these permits in some way to notify the population, not just the local authorities. I don't know.! Or through the local authorities, the whole population that this refusal is official and there is no danger of continuing the permit and subsequent concession from this. Madam Minister, you must also conclude whether this whole procedure, which every time is legal... I have no doubt that everything in the Bulgarian legislation has been respected, but every time we come to some protests when it comes to some larger action. Because people have failed to appeal the decision or to do any action in their favour, which is provided for in the Law, and this will contribute the Ministry to see that there is tension, in advance, before issuing the permission. So you have to think about these procedures first. I'm only going to pay attention to something else that people are worried about. They say: here is the permission given on 13 December at the end of the year, and the local authorities were informed on 29 December, although only on 21 January it was published in the Official Journal. They suspect that at this time, when Christmas and New Year's holidays are, someone is doing something hidden. It must be taken into account by the Ministry and by the institutions at all. [[the President signals that time has run out]] avoid such conflicts, put out fires afterwards when we can prevent them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u84	Mr. Gokov, after this black-mindedness and mistrust, which you publicly expressed from the stands of the National Assembly, there is no way we can not proceed to disinfecting the stands. [[Noise, lines and laughter.]] Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u85	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, here is the official letter with which the potential concessionaire has deposited his request, withdrawn his proposal and refused to sign the contract relating to the search and survey of the area of St. Nicholas. [[Shows the letter.]] So people need to be really calm. As for the legal procedure itself, as you have noted, the Ministry of Energy, the Council of Ministers, all competent institutions have strictly complied with the rules laid down in the Law on Underground Treasures. I would like to assure the Bulgarian citizens that when this type of activity is carried out, it is ensured that all rules regarding environmental protection, protection of people's lives and health are respected in the first place. It is within the EIA procedure that every Bulgarian citizen has the right to state his position, to express his opinion, to present relevant evidence, if any, and they will, of course, be taken into account. So nothing could happen without a positive environmental impact assessment. This is also the guarantee for Bulgarian citizens to protect their lives and health and the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u86	Dear Minister, thank you for participating in the parliamentary control today. We continue with Mrs. Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, who will answer three questions. The first one is from the MPs Jevdet Chakarov and Hayri Sadakov regarding the completion of road III-8611 Belitsa from km 10+430 to km 18+000 and from km 18+050 to km 19+600. Who's gonna ask the question? Here you go, Mr. Sadakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u87	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Avramova, my colleague, Dzhevdet Chakarov and I are addressing you again in connection with road III-8611 Belitsa. On 20 September 2019 in response to a parliamentary question in plenary, you announced that there was a contract for engineering on road III-8611 Belitsa from km 10+430 to km 18+000 on the territory of Plovdiv. Under this contract, the contractor has carried out the research and design works and has developed a technical project for the site and the prepared design documentation has been examined by the Road Infrastructure Agency and it has been found that it does not meet the requirements of the contracting entity referred to in the design assignment and is therefore returned for correction and supplement. With regard to the section of the third-class road in Smolyan Region, Road Infrastructure "Spare" has performed repair works in a section with a length of kilometer and a half between the border with Plovdiv district and Zagrajden from km 18+050 to km 19+600. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 350000. lv. In this regard, our question to you is: have the repair works completed on route III-8611 Belitsa "Was the construction permit granted and is the construction of road III-8611 Belitsa started from km 10+430 to km 18+000 and if there is a delay in the implementation of the project due to what measures are taken to compensate it? When do you expect to complete the completion of road III-8611 Belitsa from km 10+430 to km 18+000 and when will it be able to be used effectively? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u88	Thank you, dear Mr. Sadakov. You have the floor for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u89	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Sadakov, I would like to provide information on your questions in the order in which they were asked, although the main topic, which is at the center of your attention and of our efforts, is the completion of Belitsa Road in the area from km 10+430 to km 18+000. Regarding the planned repairs on the third-class road in the section from the border with Plovdiv district to Zagrajden, 1.55 km long, I inform you that they ended in November last year and 732 thousand were provided for the renovation. BGN 256. from the budget of the Road Infrastructure Agency. The completed construction works include groundwork, machine laying of solid and non-solid asphalt mixture, repair of road equipment and their accessories such as coffering, laying concrete, repair and construction of waterfalls, delivery of geotextile with drainage and dividing function, cutting of bushes and a young forest. In this year, 322 m of restricted road systems were installed for which an additional 27 thousand were provided. BGN 864. As regards the implementation of the contract for carrying out research and design works and construction of engineering of a site on road III-8611 Belitsa 406 thousand. 500 leva. without VAT, divided by the first stage of the 5 thousand. lv. without VAT, second stage in the CMR "3 million." 92,000. Two hundred and twenty-two BGN. excluding VAT, and additional costs - 309 thousand 227 BGN. without VAT. There is also a certain contractor of the consulting service for the implementation of the construction supervision of the site £280. without VAT. On 27 February 2020, the contractor submitted the latest version of the Technical Project for consideration by the Technical Council of the Regional Road Management Plovdiv. You know, and you mentioned it yourself in your statement that the contractor repeatedly presented a development for research and design works for the construction of the 7,5 km-long section and the project was repeatedly returned for correction because it did not meet the requirements of the contracting authority for the execution of the contract. The development that has now been submitted meets the regulatory requirements and is agreed by stakeholders. We have a contract with a contractor, we have construction supervision. There are some technical and financial issues to be specified after the resolution of which the project will be submitted for the process of issuing a building permit, after which the construction works will actually begin. We predict they will start within the current construction season, with the deadline for implementation of the site being 365 days, of which 90 calendar days were for research and design works, and 275 days are for implementation of the construction and installation works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u90	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, dear Mr. Sadakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u91	Thank you, dear Minister. More clarity has come from your response on the expectations of real fulfillment. This alarm has been on for a very long time. Even as a joke among colleagues, we shared that we all already know this question almost by heart because it has been asked to you repeatedly and we are waiting for development of this topic. Note that the Rhodopes in general are an extremely beautiful region. The area we are talking about on the road is quite economically declining. The economy is directly related to the infrastructure that is built in the region. There is also Cross Forest, there are many prerequisites that require really to trigger all things very quickly. I expect you to confirm that the launch of the Project will take place within this year, and it is already clear and the deadline for implementation, because there are agreed deadlines. So we expect really in the year to be the start of the project. Please confirm with certainty that this will happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u92	Thank you, dear Mr. Sadakov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u93	Dear Mr. Sadakov, the efforts of the Road Infrastructure Agency and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works are to have a good infrastructure, which, as you mentioned, leads to economic growth and revival of the regions. I confirm once again that within this construction season the construction and installation activities of the Belitsa section will start.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u94	Thank you, dear Minister. The second question to Minister Avramova is from the National Representative Milko Nedyalkov on the failed implementation of the Project under Operational Programme "Regions in Growth" in the town of Lovech. You have the floor, Mr Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u95	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! Mr. Chairman, I'm gonna need a few seconds, and we're gonna cut it out of the line. Madam Minister, as my colleague Sadakov, this is the third time I have asked this question. I will continue to ask it because it is not clear to the hunting community how, when there is a good project, how, when there is European funding, a municipality and the managing authority cannot implement a school to have a gym and its space to be ennobled?! The brief story of facts. In January 2018, the municipality of Lovech entered into a contract with a Smolyan consortium, represented by the procurist Vasil Kisyov, for the construction of the sports hall and yard spaces. In a few months, the contract was terminated and a new contract was opened. In May 2018, a new contract was signed with a consortium again by Smolyan, represented by the same person, and the leading company in this consortium deals with retail footwear and leather products. When I asked that question, you then announced that the Managing Authority had verified payment costs in the amount of.. I round the figures at 432,000. lv. We learn that after minimal construction activities were carried out, rather simulating construction activities, the company from Lovech Municipality was paid a sum of 760 thousand. lv. with VAT. The subject hasn't been touched since November. The site has been frozen due to bad weather conditions. To date, according to information from the managing authority. The contract is not known to the hunting community for what reason it was terminated, with Lovech Municipality announcing a new contract for 900 thousand. lv. My questions to you are: why the Municipality of Lovech paid over 320 thousand. lv. for activities that have not been carried out? Who controls this in spending euro funds? As shown by the new procurement, the total amount of the project increased from 1 million. Three hundred and seventy thousand. lv. At 1 million. 650,000. lv. What is this increase for when the project is the same? My question is: how long did the children in Primary School go? Dimitar Dimov "Lovech" will be hostages of foreign interests and will not be able to play sports? I just want to show you at the beginning that before the local elections last year, the so-called rehabilitation of yard spaces was carried out. [[Shows photos.]] Here I show both you and my colleagues in this House the implementation of a European project.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u96	Only that's off the subject now, Mr. Nedyalkov, and I've given you a lot of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u97	Yes, thank you. These are my questions, I ask for an answer, and I demand that the subject be completed.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u98	You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u99	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Nedyalkov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Under the Treaty on the Construction of a Sports Hall and Rehabilitation of the Yard Area in the Primary School Prof. Dimitar Dimov Three hundred and £607. with VAT by contractor Danny "Torcret" at present, a payment of verified costs of 431 thousand has been made. £741. The costs of the contract with the contractor are related to an advance invoice of 479 thousand. BGN 712. to the request for interim payment No 4 of 7 June 2018 by the beneficiary. Other costs of that contract related to actual construction works carried out for the above site, the beneficiary has not submitted for reimbursement and verification by the managing authority of the Operational Programme nor has the relevant underlying building and financial reporting documentation been submitted. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Managing Authority of the Programme does not have any information regarding the funds paid by the contracting authority, the Municipality of Lovech, to the contractor for the construction of a sports hall and rehabilitation of the yard space of the Primary School. Dimitar Dimov. Except for the advance invoice presented. By letter dated 3 June 2020, the beneficiary informed that he had terminated the contract and began to announce a new procedure for selecting a contractor. It should be borne in mind that the Managing Authority of the Operational Programme has not carried out ex ante control of the procedures for selecting contractors carried out by the beneficiaries under the Programme. Upon submission of a request for reimbursement of actual costs, the managing authority will carry out a verification of the legality and appropriateness of that procedure. In addition, it should be borne in mind that, in accordance with the approved draft proposal and a grant contract concluded when depositing a request for payment, the managing authority will only recover eligible costs up to the amount of funds approved by the budget item concerned and should be made within the duration of the grant agreement. The contract is suspended until the selection of a new contractor and the conclusion of a contract, and then the beneficiary will have 35 calendar days to carry out all activities and the completion of the project. All expenses incurred outside the duration of the Project under Operational Programme "Regions in Growth" remain at the expense of the beneficiary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u100	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u101	I'll be very brief, Mr. Chairman, because by burying myself in this case, I've come across something very interesting. The contract with the contractor, represented by Vasil Kisyov, has been concluded in November and nothing has been done since. In December the same Vasil Kisyov from Smolyan bought a company for 2 BGN. And with it, he suddenly bought the Rozhen Express. The logical question is: are these not the funds from a European project? Since there are many irregularities in the implementation of this project, you have promised to send your deputy Nikolova to check it out personally, but clearly this has not been done and this gives me the full basis of me as MP, and as a representative of the public of Lovech, to hand over all these documents to the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u102	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u103	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Nedyalkov, the Managing Authority of the Operational Programme shall make checks when there is a request for payment and actually carried out construction works, carry out an on-the-spot check and verification of the documents submitted. You, as a Member of the National Assembly and as a citizen, have the full right, if you have data and evidence of irregularities committed, to alert the competent authorities and, at the same time, to alert the Managing Authority to take appropriate action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u104	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The last question to Minister Avramova is from the MP Lyubomir Bonev about the lack of soundproofing wall of the highway You have the floor, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! On a reception day in the town of Pernik, in particular in the district of Church, worried citizens told me about problems related to the lack of soundproofing wall in the highway of Struma, passing in the immediate vicinity of the neighborhood of Strumen, the distance is not more than 30 or 40 m to the residential blocks, and this represents a section of residential blocks. Since the design of the road section, Madam Minister, they have not been foreseen in any way. All of this gives prerequisites for all traffic, all traffic noise to be felt by the residents, to be constant, we know how busy the highway is. The question is that people breathe poisonous substances from car fumes. After all, it is necessary to make these facilities in the fastest order. That's basically it, Madam Minister. Otherwise, my specific question to you is: when will the necessary soundproofing barrier be placed on the highway of Struma. Madam Minister, I am obliged to say that in 2019 I have asked you a similar question, both the district of Church and the village of Studena are on the highway itself and it is necessary to place such noiseproof barriers. Then you asked me at the beginning of 2019 that you were assigned the preparation of the Project "Updated Strategic Sound Card." If we could just know what's going on with her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u106	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Bonev, in June 2020, the Road Infrastructure Agency announced a public contract with subject The deadline for receipt of tenders is 10 August 2020. The estimated value for Lot 3, which I have just announced, is 44 thousand. 300 leva. without VAT, the implementation period is 60 calendar days. The actions taken by the Agency for the development of acoustic and structural projects for the construction of noise protection facilities at the highway of Struma are the result of the design in 2018. "Strategic map for noise of road sections in the Republic of Bulgaria with traffic of more than 3 million motor vehicles per year" which shows exceeding the limits from Annex 2 to art. 5 of Ordinance No 6 of 2006 on environmental noise indicators The Action Plan to the Strategic Noise Card concluded that it is necessary to place noise protection facilities to achieve hygiene noise standards in residential spaces, commercial buildings and work sites regulated by the Ordinance, taking into account the degree of discomfort across the various parts of the day, the limits of environmental noise performance, the methods for assessing noise performance values and the harmful effects of noise on the health of the population. All this has been taken into account and the necessary action has been taken. The object of noise impact by the traffic flow along the highway is the residential territory of the district of Pernik, located unilaterally in relation to the road route. Those sections shall have an approximate mileage to be specified on the basis of the design documentation drawn up. The type, height, length, location and other specific parameters of the noise protection walls will be determined according to the design. The necessary design drawings and details shall be made for the noise-proof crane, complying with the cross-section profile of the motorway, the possibilities for its installation on the facility and other circumstances which will become known in the design process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u108	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Bonev, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! From your answer, we can understand that by the end of this calendar year for the two sections of the highway. It is good that eventually a year after the question is asked, things happen. We hope that the Ministry in your person will fulfill the commitments that have just been made so that all the residents can eventually be terrorized by the continuous noise of the highway Struma. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u110	Thank you. Hole, Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Briefly information about you, Mr. Bonev, to tell you what we expect from the project that will be made. The first stage is the development of an acoustic project and variant proposals. The second stage is the development of a technical project. And the third stage of the final transmission of the coherent project development, completed with the above parts to the main project. 60 calendar days, such as the contractor to be selected in August, must present: acoustic, construction-constructive geodesy; geology, road; affected facilities and communications owned by other departments; fire safety; safety and health plan and so on. So, once we have the project development and it will become available by the end of this year, we will proceed to the construction and installation works for the installation of noise fences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-03.u112	Thank you, dear Minister, for participating in parliamentary control today. That was the last question. The next regular plenary session on 8 July 2020 shall be held at 9:00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
