ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, I'm going to read you a message: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria Krasimir Karakachanov informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the adoption through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, by its own orders, has authorised: "Il-76" aircraft with its crew from the Air Force of Ukraine on route: Ukraine The authorisation shall constitute a change in the dates for the execution of flights during an authorisation for the period from 11 February 2020 and shall be valid for the period from 19 to 25 February 2020; The air space of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of the aircraft An-124 and its crew of the Russian military forces, the Russian Federation, in order to transport military production. The authorisation shall be valid for the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria on routes: Russian Federation.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The notifications were received on 19 February 2020. No. 003-09-18 and vh. No 003-09-19 and granted to the Defence Committee. A declaration on behalf of a group. Come in, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Every year on February 19th, the Bulgarian nation marks the death of one of the Stojeers of the Bulgarian national identity Vasil Levski. On this tragic date we remember the Apostle's covenants of freedom and, believers in the immortality of his ideals, we bow our heads to worship his sacrifice and memory. The place where Vasil Levski passed into eternity is revered as a sacred place by the Bulgarian people and no Bulgarian politician during all 141 years of the existence of the new Bulgarian statehood has dared to defile this sacred place for every Bulgarian place. Because the place where the Apostle of Liberty gave his life for Bulgaria has always been a place for unification of the Bulgarian nation. Yesterday on 19 February 2020 the tradition of Vasil Levski's memory to be honored with humility and by all, regardless of religion, ethnicity and political beliefs, was violated by the Bulgarian President.. an organized agitate from the BSP community along with semi-crime and marginalized mercenaries committed a violation of the memory of the Apostle of Freedom. This unprecedented and shameful provocation against the Bulgarian national unity passed under the patronage of BSP President Rumen Radev. In the image of this provocation Radev's companions became the face of unfortunate former politicians from BSP such as Alexander Tomov and Krasimir Premyanov and affairist privatists as Vasil Vasilev. In the background of this image were the organized aggressors who inhabit the periphery of the criminal contingent. We insist on stressing that responsibility for this shameful and party-organized action is carried out personally by Rumen Radev. The strongest assessment for her was the refusal of Sofians to join the few manifesting and thus to show their attitude towards the actions of the Bulgarian President. For the parliamentary group of GERB such ugly scenes that attack the unity of the nation in order to serve the vicious daily agenda of the troubled in scandals and helplessness Rumen Radev are unacceptable and unacceptable. On the third year of his presidency Rumen Radev is able to offer nothing but chastity, pettyness and political illiteracy. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Today the presidential institution is controlled by random people and political amateurs who are ready to stake Bulgaria's future in the name of their political survival and their personal power positioning. Over the past three years, the lack of courage, the lack of reason and the lack of experience of the president have made the unifying role of the presidential institution meaningless and turned it into a tool for party propaganda. The institution, called to represent all Bulgarians and to be a field on which political leaders find common ground on important topics for the nation, has become a tool for destroying long-standing and long-preserved national consensuses. And if the inefficiencies of the Bulgarian President, albeit difficult, can be justified by the lack of political sense, then the insulting of the memory of Vasil Levski by the Head of State is an action that cannot be overlooked by silence and understanding. Yesterday Rumen Radev crossed a line from which there is no turning back. Instead of fulfilling his duties as president of all Bulgarians, he agreed to take the position of a party leader. For the parliamentary group of GERB it will remain such until the end of its term. Instead of uniting the nation, which finds the points of agreement in society, Rumen Radev became a divider of the Bulgarian people, which parasitizes on the most sacred and sacred relics of the Bulgarian national memory. This behavior may be acceptable to the most radicalized supporters of the BSP, but it is offensive and unacceptable to all those who want to live in the pure and holy Republic under some pure and holy laws, as God has given to live the man, both for the Turk and for the Jew, and so on. We state that no party, no institution, no political figure has the right to privatize, possess and undermine the Bulgarian national memory and its brightest image in the face of Vasil Levski! We call on all responsible politicians and parliamentary groups in the Forty-fourth National Assembly to strongly distinguish themselves from Rumen Radev's political abuses with the Apostle's memory and condemn the unworthy conduct that we witnessed yesterday! This is the least we owe to our constituents, who, despite their political differences, represent a common whole, which we all call Bulgaria. We demand that the President apologize for the unprecedented blunder in which the presidential institution was involved and thus undermine its authority and lower it to the level of marginal party campaign! We do not want Rumen Radev's apology for ourselves, but for all those who keep the memory of our national heroes, and thus continue what was started by Levski. Madam President, honourable Members! We should not allow Bulgaria to become a hostage of one person's fear and personal dramas, it was him and the one who, by coincidence, fulfilled the powers of President! The price for the opposition of different groups in society, the self-sustaining power ambition and the amateur presumptuousness of Rumen Radev will be paid long by the entire Bulgarian society! We recall that all the successes Bulgaria has achieved over the past 30 years were due to the common direction and interaction of all Bulgarian citizens. And vice versa, all the failures that have befallen us were the result of the inability of our society and its institutions to find a common response to the challenges faced by our country. Bulgaria is neither a training ground for political amateurs nor an opportunity for the implementation of sick personal power ambitions. Bulgaria is the motherland of Levski and the motherland of all those who love it and are ready to work for the common good! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. Here you are, Mr. Stoinev, for a statement on behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I am truly deeply sorry that there was so much anger in the declaration of the Political Party GERB and I do not consider this necessary and adequate. Maybe we should split yesterday's events into two. One is the procession and the other is the booing. I believe that the procession is the right of the Bulgarian President and no one can forbid him to participate or to lead a procession. He, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, was elected directly by the Bulgarian citizens! He has the right to lead Bulgarian citizens, to be with them, to listen to them, to express their opinion, to listen to the woes! But with you, it seems the main problem is why he does not praise the government! Secondly, I do not accept the insults regarding the participants in this procession.......... whether they were marginals.............there was talk of people from the past...... about politicians who hardly have no morals... it is not inherent for MPs, especially for the political party that has the ambitions to lead this country.... to treat such contempt for Bulgarian citizens! This is about this division and about this hatred that you instill among Bulgarian citizens, we talk and want to overcome. The third, the boos, as I recall, it was the President who urged not to boo Bulgarian politicians on that day! However, ladies and gentlemen, here the question to which you must answer is: why do Bulgarian citizens boo at you? And you have to start asking yourself that question and looking for answers. [[GERB lines.]] This is not the fault of the presidential institution, this is not the fault of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, it is your fault, honourable Members.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u5	Why were they together?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u6	Because when we have a country where every day every municipality has an environmental problem, a health problem, as it is today in Radnevo, when there are really problems with the future of certain sectors, as it is in the energy sector, people resent, people boo, people express their resentment and you should listen to it. In no way can I understand this rage and malice towards an institution, the only one in the country where the positive rating is greater than the negative one! To this, we have to answer this question: why is our rating so low here in Parliament, and the presidential institution's rating is so high? You're talking about separation. Ladies and gentlemen, remember President Plevneliev, I do not want to use insulting words to him in any case, but he gave the beginning and the way in which the presidential institution worked in a period in which he very much, much earlier removed confidence from a government. Then where were you to talk about unification, about unity of the nation? Then you were gone when the constant criticism continued. The President is right because the Bulgarian people see that he expresses what they think. Of course, it is unacceptable for such events to really have boos, and I believe that the President reacted correctly by asking citizens not to boo. But the booing of a mayor, a minister, will begin to be a constant magnitude in our political life, because what you see, people do not feel it. That's why it's this rage that you're attacking an institution with these insults, with these qualifications. She just doesn't answer the truth, ladies and gentlemen. And instead of looking for answers here, we keep looking for this division. Look, the enemy of the state is not here, it is neither in the presidential institution nor in any other institution. The enemy is being set up by this really unfair transition, which has made it so that we have broken down absolutely all the institutions in the country, that instead of talking about working institutions, we are talking about hearsays that can walk and shout among the people. Because there should be experienced and qualified people who do not depend on BSP or GERB or DPS, they should depend on the Bulgarian state, because they are professionals and do their jobs, and not have a country where one person will decide whether there will be a road, whether there will be a wine, whether there will be electricity, whether there will be water. That's what we need to change. This will not happen with declarations that are directed to a particular institution, or to a person who is telling the truth. Yeah, we try to tell the truth here every time, it becomes political opposition, clashes, and this truth seems to be hiding behind the big scandals. But we have to understand that we have a big problem. I hope this really flashes us that this problem depends on our unity when it comes to national priorities, and that there should be no division to the left and right, because with the division to the left and right we become a geopolitical attachment to a given system. Our national interest depends not on how much we can spit on someone, but on how in difficult times we can lend a hand. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. You're welcome, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u8	Madam President, honourable Members! I want the procedure in the manner of conduct, because, yes, everyone has the right to speak on behalf of a parliamentary group and to give speeches here from the stands of the National Assembly. [[Noise and excitement in BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u9	To me!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u10	However, Madam President, even at the moment, the behavior of the left-hand side of the Chamber shows what I have become to request a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u11	What did I do wrong, Mr. Manev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u12	Words of the kind: spitting, hating, hating, being replaced by an entire parliamentary group here by the stands, and that is because today we have turned with an appeal not to undermine our greatest sanctity, that criminals have no right to this place...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u13	I speak for BSP.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u14	...this must not be allowed in the Bulgarian Parliament, Madam President. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u15	Thank you, Mr. Manev, for the remark.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u16	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u17	Mr. Ermenkov, you'll have it, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u18	Madam President, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct, because I think you have missed something extremely dangerous to sound out of this tribune. I suppose there is no one in this House who does not think that the top of democracy in a country is the way elections and elections themselves are being held and the results of them. And when, on behalf of a parliamentary group, without a remark from you or without any of this parliamentary group protesting, he called the election held by the Bulgarian state and the results, which in this election are two million and over two million people who voted for a person, a matter of circumstances, as it was called that the President was due to the circumstances president, this is a blow to democracy, this is a blow to the Bulgarian people and this is a blow to his right of choice. Rather, a coincidence is that such people like him are in this parliament. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Let's continue with: THE REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE TEMPORARY ANCETAL COMMISSION ON THE EXAMINATION OF ALL FACTS AND ASSISTANCES AROUND THE END OF ELECTRONIC DATA INFORMATION FROM THE NATIONAL AGENCEMENT FOR REVENUE AND PROJECT OF THE REPORT DECISION. Here you go, Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Allow me, first of all, a procedure for admission in the hall of Mrs. Galya Dimitrova, Executive Director of the NRA, and Mr. Rosen Buchvarov, Director of the Directorate.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u21	Please vote on Mr. Tzipov's so-called admission procedure. Vote 161 MPs: 153 against 2, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! The committee of inquiry was established by a decision of the National Assembly on 25 July 2019 and it is composed of 15 Members of Parliament elected on a Parisian principle by three Members of Parliament from each Parliamentary Group. The Commission's period of validity was three months and was extended once until 30 November 2019. The purpose of the Temporary Committee of inquiry was to carry out the necessary actions to clarify all the facts and circumstances and to present a report on them. Within the term and within the term provided by the National Assembly, the Temporary Committee of inquiry held eight meetings at which internal rules of work of the Commission were adopted; hearings were held by representatives of the National Revenue Agency (NAP); the Ministry of Finance (MF); the Ministry of Internal Affairs (MVR); the State Agency of National Security (SANS); the Personal Data Protection Commission (CDC); the State Agency of Electronic Governance (SDA); the Appeals Specialized Prosecutor's Office and the Special Prosecutor's Office, as well as representatives of the Notary Chamber and the Supreme Attorney's Council for the actions they have taken and measures related to the draining of information from the electronic database of the National Revenue Agency. Letters were sent to the Chamber of Private Judicial Contractors, the Association of Banks in Bulgaria and the Association for Responsible Non-bank lending and replies were received from them. The exchange of data between the tax administrations of the Member States of the European Union has been suspended since the issue of information from the electronic database of the NRA. Representatives of the Ministry of Interior, the DANS and the NRA were heard at the first meeting of the Commission. They provided information on how the signal of unlawful actions was received in connection with the draining of information and the publication of personal data of five million Bulgarian citizens and a huge number of commercial companies. The representatives of the NRA explained what were the initial measures and actions taken by them to clarify the number of persons concerned and to protect the remaining information from the Agency's informational arrays. They also presented the application developed by them on the Agency's website, with which each natural person has the opportunity to check whether their data are distributed due to the unauthorised access to the informational arrays of the NRA. The representatives of the Ministry of Interior and DANS have made inquiries about the initial actions taken by them, including with regard to the prosecution's reporting on pre-trial criminal proceedings. On the part of the Members of the National Assembly, members of the Commission, a number of questions were asked, which were answered by the representatives of the institutions concerned in detail and comprehensively. The members of the Commission were asked to provide information to the Executive Director of the NRA on the Agency's staff working on the maintenance of the information arrays, on the provision of electronic services, as well as other IT specialists who have access to the relevant information funds, as well as on contractors under public procurement contracts, as well as on the development and maintenance of the Agency's information systems. At the beginning of September, the requested information was sent by letter to the Executive Director of the NRA, which included a list of employees from the specialized units of the NRA who worked with the information which had become the subject of unlawful actions. The representatives of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data during their hearing in the Commission indicated that they had self-examined after notification by the NRA of an information security problem within 72 hours of establishment and as a result of media publications. The Personal Data Protection Commission has carried out an overall verification of the controller and, as a result of the monthly verification, the team has come up with certain findings. The findings of a verification of the NRA for the period from 22 July 2019 to 19 August 2019 pursuant to the Order of 19 July 2019 of the President of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data are as follows: of the documents collected during the verification, the verification team found that on 15 July 2019 the NRA found leaked information containing individual data of natural persons through unauthorized access to its data bases. The following day a security breach has been notified under art. 33 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. The necessary technical and organisational measures for data protection are taken to address the personal data breach and critical applications providing electronic services to citizens are suspended. The investigating authorities, partner tax institutions in the Member States of the European Union, the public authorities and institutions concerned, as well as the IT services, have also been informed in order to carry out an independent external audit. Within the statutory deadline, the NRA has taken the necessary action to notify citizens through the means of mass notification, as well as to develop an application by which each individual Bulgarian citizen will check whether his data has been distributed as a result of unauthorised access to the NRA's informational arrays. The relevant application is available on the Agency's website and has been active since 25 July 2019. Measures have been taken for individuals, foreign nationals, and in the English version of the official website of the NRA a specialized item is created dedicated to unauthorized access to personal data, where summary information is published on the circle of affected persons, including foreign ones, the type of personal data disclosed and a description of the possible consequences of the infringement, as well as answers to the most frequently asked questions. The tax administrations of the States with which the NRA exchange tax information under international acts have been notified of the information security incident and the personal data disclosed by common and individual letters to international organisations indicating the number of records which have been subject to unauthorised access. The European Commission and the specialised services in its composition, the Global Forum of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, as well as the competent authorities for the exchange of information of the Member States of the European Union, in the field of value added tax and the collection of various public claims have been informed. A letter has been prepared and sent to all tax administrations for which there is an indication of unlawful disclosure of personal data, requesting assistance from the relevant administrative authority in the tax administration, which, following the provision by the IDA of the identification data, informs the local individuals individually. The demand for such assistance was necessary because, in a large number of cases, the NRA does not have specific contact details with foreign persons, and it is also practically impossible to verify the identity of some of these foreign persons if an electronic service is used on the NRA website. The verifier of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data considers that the NRA, as a personal data controller, has not taken all appropriate technical and organisational measures to protect personal data resulting from unauthorised access, unauthorised disclosure and dissemination of personal data to natural persons by the information databases maintained by the Agency. The content of the notification and of the documents communicated to the file is identified in the illegally available and subsequently distributed data of individuals mentioned in the verification lists as follows: total number of persons who include Bulgarian and foreign nationals, including the number of active foreign nationals, including the number of persons who have been registered in the internet, more than 6 million; total number of persons active in Bulgarian and foreign nationals, who include more than 4 million and 100 thousand; total number of active Bulgarian nationals (in Bulgarian and foreign nationals) under 18 years of the total number of active Bulgarian and foreign nationals (in Bulgarian) The parameters relating to the security of NRA personal data are found to be the following: the total amount of information that is distributed on the internet is 10,7 GB; the total amount of information to which unauthorized access has been made is 1450 GB; the total amount of information on the NRA server to which unauthorized access has been made is 1733 GB; the information to which unauthorized access has been made contains the following categories of personal data: names, EGN, addresses, telephone, e-mail and tax security information; the information distributed in the unauthorized access is less than 1% of all the information that has been found on the server to which this access has been made. It is stated that the NRA as a personal data controller has not implemented appropriate technical and organisational measures for data protection under art. 32 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as a result of which unauthorised access has been made and personal data of natural persons have been distributed. In this regard, it is proposed to issue an order to the NRA on the basis of art. In order to comply with the processing operations of personal data with the provisions of the Regulation within six months of service of the order, point (d) of Paragraph 2. After carrying out the verification, it has been established that certain technical and organisational data protection measures have not been taken in the NRA and that the following recommendations have been made: to draw up clearly written rules for individual users in the NRA information systems, their functional obligations and their procedures by defining the principles of interaction of individual users; to draw up procedures for the interaction of individual users in the personal data protection system; to draw up in a full volume rules and procedures for the protection of personal data, each of the information systems maintained in the NRA developed rules for the processing of personal data within them; to provide in policies for the formation of user profiles for access to applications implementing electronic services for citizens, sufficiently restrictive measures for access to databases, and not to access with excessive rights from privileged users; to take the necessary action to establish audit records of individual events and diaries for privileged users; to implement a system for the management of user privileges and system and an analysis of events reflected in the diaries; 35 of the EU Regulation 2016/679; to assess the impact of an identified high-risk system and the measures taken under the approved and published on the Commission's website for the protection of personal data list under art. 35, § 4 of Regulation 2016/679, rules and procedures for assessing the impact of data protection on the initial launch of new information systems and applications. Member of the Commission. - Madam President, because the recommendations from the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data are extremely many and are published as an annex to the Commission's Report of the Commission, I propose to move on to the hearing that the Commission carried out to the representatives of the State Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u23	Yes, Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u24	Thank you. Allow me to point out that: on 28 August 2019 on the basis of art. 87, para. 3 of the Law on the Protection of Personal Data The Commission for the Protection of Personal Data has issued a criminal decree of the NRA for violation of art. 32, Paragraph 1, point (b) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, with a view to unauthorised access, unauthorised disclosure and dissemination of personal data to individuals from information databases maintained by the Agency. The amount of the sanction imposed is 5 million. $100,000. lv. At present, the NRA has appealed the issued criminal order. During the second meeting representatives of the State Agency were heard. The representatives noted what measures were taken, including in relation to the data leak and the state of their protection in the public administration servers. They found that cybersecurity has become a key factor in the sustainable development and prosperity of the state, business, society and the preservation of democratic freedoms of citizens in recent years. The breaches in information systems and the leak of personal data from information assets represent one of the most serious security problems at national and global level. The methods, techniques, procedures and technologies for breakthrough develop ahead of time, with the final results remaining the same............................the trust of the citizens. On their part, it has been noted that network security breaches remain in the highest priority vulnerability ranking, with a contribution to over 70% of the compromised data, while hacking as an action remains a type of infringement number one by number of incidents representing 82% of the reported infringements. According to the published analyses of Cyber Risk Analytics on the leak of personal data, more than 3800 breakthroughs have been recorded in the world for the first half of 2019 through which more than 4 billion records of confidential or personal information have been disclosed. Representatives noted that the state of network and information security in the public administration is directly dependent on the state and development of the information resources at its disposal. As regards the development of information resources, the State Agency of Electronic Management shall conduct a policy to switch to the use of horizontal systems and shared resources of electronic management through the Single Electronic Communications Network, the State hybrid private cloud and the repository of data. The direction is: centralised planning and management of shared information resources in their decentralised use and responsibility for the availability and security of data by administrative authorities. The administrative authorities currently have a wide variety of different information systems depending on the specific functions they provide. These systems are introduced at different times and have different degrees of maturity in terms of interoperability, network and information security. It is pointed out that the systems are still highly fragmented, which requires additional efforts for their integration. According to the summary from 495 administrations in operation in 2019 there are 5009 number of information systems. Of these, 3484 pieces or 69% are provided with technical support ensuring their performance. The additional analysis shows that for 90% of general information systems technical support is provided, while for specialised systems such support is available only in respect of 46% of them. Until now, 118 950 workstations are available in the administrations, 77.8% of them are in the central, specialized, territorial and regional administration, while 22.2% are in the municipal administration. At the end of 2013, the administration had a total of 114,093 workstations. The analysis of their operational period data shows that 46% of the workstations should be updated in the short term in order to meet the minimum requirements of network and information security and the dynamics of work processes. The administration has 5535 servers of different classes compared to 5817 units at the end of 2013, with 72.5% of them in the central, specialized territorial and regional administration and 2.5% in the municipal administration. The administrative authorities have provided and installed antivirus software on 94,529 workstations and on 4346 servers. In 2018, the state administration invested nearly 5 million. lv. for antiviral products and systems, and in 2019 license rights will expire in 237 administrations and 50 administrations are at risk as they do not have the relevant systems. The costs of network and information security are part of the total costs of e-government, with the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for the first time in a separate application were determined the target funds for electronic management and information and communication technologies. For 2018, they amount to 109 million. 817 thousand. 100 BGN, with 61 changes of the established target costs for electronic management and information and communication technologies, carried out under the Public Finance Act, reached 133 million. 301 thousand. £900. In recent years, Bulgaria has invested annually in e-government around 0,1% of GDP and, to compare, countries such as Belgium, Italy, Austria, Norway and the Netherlands have invested in e-government around 0.6% of gross domestic product, while countries such as Sweden and Britain are investing around 1.4% of the country's gross domestic product. The data from the 2018 Administration Status Report show that the total number of employees in the administration responsible for information and communication technologies is 2987, which is about 2% of the employed. According to their functions are distributed as follows: IT and communication technology support staff It is noted that around 30% of administrations do not have the necessary administrative capacity to work on e-government, as the main reasons for this are lack of qualified or under-trained personnel, low pay and insufficient state numbers. In the second quarter of 2019 the average gross wage of employees in the economic activity is BGN 3053. Data on the remuneration of employees in the administration occupied in the field of information and communication technologies show that their average monthly remuneration is BGN 1348. And he's very behind in what he's getting in the private sector. The high turnover of personnel continues, including due to the lack of competitive pay opportunities for the private sector. Globally, the trend continues to be in place to increase the number of cybersecurity incidents, as well as to increase their complexity. Between January and August 2019 the National Team for Response to Computer Security Accidents has found a constant complication of the country's cybersecurity situation. The statistics for the period were related to registered incidents with network and information security in central and territorial administrations with high and medium priority. At 12 points, the corresponding number of incidents is described in the table. Dear Madam President, I will not read them in detail, as they are over-skilled and over-skilled. They are a denial of a service, an encryption virus, an attempt at penetration and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u25	Of course, Mr. Tzipov. It's a public report, so...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u26	According to statistics, which is conducted by the team for infringements in and from the Bulgarian Internet space, 1263 incidents have been reported for January 2019, which is an increase compared to the same period of 2018 by 34%; 13% for 2017; 277% for 2016; 273 percent for 2015; and 338% for 2014. As a global comparison, the number of infringements reported for the first half of 2019 is 54% higher than that for the same period of 2018, i.e. expected in the months by the end of 2019 and respectively the subsequent years the rate of increase of registered infringements in and from the Bulgarian Internet space is also to increase by such values. Again follows a table with the number of registered incidents by priority: high for 2019. .. 564; for 2018 "416'; for 2017 "648'; for 2016 - 159; for 2015 For 2014 the Commission expressed doubts as to whether the aid was compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and whether the aid was compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. "53" respectively: 677 for 2019; 538 for 2018; 383 for 2017; 242 for 2016; 245 for 2015; and 320 for 2014; low for: 2019 .. 22; 2018............................................................... - 51; 2017 == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man ==References=====External links==*Further readings==*Further readings==*Further readings==*Further readings==*Further readings==*Further readings==*Further readings==*Further readings==*Further readings==*Further readings==*Further readings==*Further readings==*Further readings===*Further readings===*Further readings===*Further readings====*Further readings=====*Further readings===*Further The number of high-priority incidents is about 10% of the total number of reported ones. There has been a sharp increase in the number of IP addresses affected in the Bulgarian address space with more than 6.5 times, and in the last year it is 27 times compared to 2017 and over 390 times compared to 2016. In 2019, the National Computer Security Response Team prepared and sent more than 14 043 e-mails, which increased by 100% compared to the same period of 2016. The most significant incident registered by the National Accident Response Team is related to the leak of personal data by the National Revenue Agency. Following the occurrence of the incident on 15 July 2019 pursuant to art. 21, para. 4 of the Cyber Security Act in the National Computer Security Accident Response Team was notified by the National Revenue Agency. In connection with the incident, two hours after the report was received, an order was also received from the President of the State Agency for the sending of employees for the purpose of getting acquainted with the factual situation and providing assistance. In view of the fact that there have been assumptions about a possible computer crime in this case, joint work has been started with the teams of the General Directorate of Organized Crime and the Ministry of Interior and the teams of the State Agency of National Security. As a result, indications of available vulnerability in the programme code of the relevant Annex type, as quoted by the Report, are identified. Once this circumstance has been established, the operation of the appropriate administration has immediately been discontinued. One of the measures taken by the management of the National Revenue Agency is the appointment of an audit by an external specialised organisation. In October 2018, the Cyber Security Act introduced the requirements of Directive 2016/1148 EU on measures for a high common level of network security and information systems in the European Union was adopted. The Cyber Security Act entrusts the administrative authorities with responsibility for the security of the networks and information systems they use. On 18 July 2019 an extraordinary meeting of the Expert Council on Integration of Information Resources was convened. The Council shall be attended by IT heads of all ministries, key secondary officers and municipal administrations, such as the National Revenue Agency, the National Insurance Institute, the Registry Agency, the Geodesy Agency, Cartography and Cadastre and others. One of the main functions of the Council is to consider proposals for technological solutions, models for integration and interaction, shared use of IT resources and others. During the meeting the participants were acquainted with the data leak from the National Revenue Agency and recommendations were made for reviewing and taking follow-up actions and measures as follows: ensuring long-term storage of logs at different levels, activation of the functionality of database management systems and similar measures, which are reflected in the Commission Report. The State Agency has also established a Register of Information Resources, which should be regularly updated by the administrative authorities. The Agency shall regularly carry out activities related to the issuance of methodological guidance aimed at increasing the level of network and information security. In connection with the duties of the Chairman of the State Agency......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Within the scope of the verification were included the administration of the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the Public Procurement Agency, the Customs Agency, the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre Agency, the National Health Insurance Fund, the National Revenue Agency, the National Insurance Institute and the State Fund. During the verification, it has been found that: part of the administrations have incomplete information about the software and firmware they use; part of the administrations use self-published certificates for their internal servers; most administrations have developed and implemented but not certified the information management system; part of the administrations lack or incompletely developed internal reporting rules, incident processing and incident planning, not all administrations maintain an incident register; rarely check the suitability of the copies made, including critical for electronic management systems and registers; not sufficient specialized software and data reserve devices; not planned and carried out sufficient training to increase the qualification of employees; due to low level of pay of IT professionals the state remains incomplete. The Commission's work continued with a hearing of representatives of the Appeals Specialized Prosecutor's Office and the Specialized Prosecutor's Office, subject to the provision of art. 198 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The representatives of the Prosecutor's Office and the administrative leaders of the two prosecutors noted that pre-trial criminal proceedings are being conducted against three persons - Ivan Todorov Todorov, Georgi Nedyalkov Yankov and Kristian Georgiev Boykov. They all have two indictments each as a leader, respectively a participant in an organized crime group. That's one charge. The second charge is for participation and action in the context of creating turmoil and fear in the population. This falls within the scope of Chapter 1 of the Criminal Code. It has been pointed out that one defendant has been held in custody, the other has a monetary guarantee, and the latter is subject to a lighter measure of non-reviation of a sub-list. It was supplemented that all the evidence collected was analysed through the investigative actions carried out. A number of technical and computer experts have been appointed, and information from various state institutions affected by this type of attack by the group of individuals has been requested. It has been noted that there must be legislative changes to introduce stricter sanctions for cybercrime under Chapter nine of the Criminal Code relating to computer crimes, mainly in the direction of increasing the penalties imposed. The Commission also heard the representatives of the Notary Chamber and of the Supreme Council of Laws, who noted that no cases were identified and consequently none were reported to them in which there was an attempt to abuse personal data in their daily activities with citizens, after the incident with data draining by the National Revenue Agency, both in the case of relevant notary certifications and in the transfer of property to real estate and motor vehicles, and in the case of legal colleges in the country, there were no reports of abuse of personal data as a result of the leak. It was pointed out that there was a system in the Notary Chamber in which it was legally regulated in order to verify the signatures on an agent for an order of real estate there to directly upload the document itself. Thus, it is prevented from using false powers of attorneys, from using foreign personal data in order to transfer an immovable property. Since 2009, the Council of Ministers has provided an opportunity for notaries to access the National Register for Bulgarian Personal Documents. Thus, when transferring real estate there is no danger, or reduced to a minimum, the possibility of using foreign personal data, because when entering the data from the identity card of the person involved in the transaction, his image is also visualized before the notary. It is added that all banks have access to this system. With access to this system, the banks themselves have the opportunity to verify the credibility of the powers of attorney presented to them. It is noted that, as regards the transactions in motor vehicles in 2018, automated data exchange was also introduced between the Notary Chamber and the Ministry of Interior, according to which the notary when entering the data of a motor vehicle receives the complete data on the person's identity document, respectively data on the motor vehicle. Thus, the possibility of abuse by using false certificates of registration of motor vehicles or fake personal documents has been crossed. In its final meeting, the Temporary Committee of inquiry heard again the representatives of the National Revenue Agency who detailed the measures and activities carried out at the Agency from the end of July until the date of its last meeting. They can be characterized as follows: more specific and strict rules for access to the National Revenue Agency's firewall have been introduced; an additional protective layer of the National Revenue Agency's public website has been implemented; users with administrative rights have been created in the National Revenue Agency's active directory to use it in order to monitor attempts to access and attack by launching a process of login of the actions... Madam President, I propose not to read them to the end, as I suppose a large part of them will also be the subject of the National Revenue Agency's exhibition.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u27	Okay, Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u28	At the last meeting representatives of the Ministry of Finance were heard. It was pointed out that the main task of the Ministry's Directorate of Information Systems is the management of the IT services provided. It is noted that some of the activities under this management are not typical of the main functions of the Ministry and are exported to external suppliers. Detailed information was also provided in writing and tabular form concerning the number, subject matter and value of contracts concluded by the Ministry. This information is an annex to the Commission report. In its opinions on the letters of the Temporary Committee of inquiry, the Chamber of Private Judicial Contractors, the Association of Banks in Bulgaria and the Association of Responsible Non-banking Credits (Association) is the association of companies providing rapid loans, it is pointed out that they had no difficulties in their daily activities related to the leaked information from the NRA's electronic database, as there are no signals received from them. From the discussions held, the following conclusions may be drawn in relation to the questions raised by the Members of the National Assembly. It was clarified that the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data does not have the power to examine and seek personal responsibility from the relevant personal data controllers. Their competence shall be limited to ensuring that the administrator complies with the requirements and, if it does not comply with them, to issue the relevant prescriptions with the relevant period of execution. In case they are not implemented, the Personal Data Protection Commission may then sanction the controller. It was noted that during the verification process there was full cooperation by the administrator at the National Revenue Agency and by its employees. The Personal Data Protection Commission has not established any lack of competence on the part of the staff of the NRA. The Commission was required to provide information from the National Revenue Agency for Education, Specialization and Professional Experience of the employees working in the Administrative Directorate providing support and protection of the informational arrays. Regarding the requirements for education of persons working with personal data, it is indicated that there is no requirement for educational qualification, but there is a requirement for professional competence, that is to say that they have worked and been trained, and if they have not worked, to go through certain training courses. The representatives of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data stressed that the NRA had prioritized the services of individuals through electronic services in minus the actions related to the protection of personal data and information, and the necessary balance between the protection and their functionality should be found. The representatives of the State Agency "E-Management" noted that 15 of the most critical administrations in the period 2018 - 2019 - autumn, including as well as the NRA under the regulations on network and information security at the time of the inspections were carried out and the regulations were accordingly given according to it. The checks were carried out on the basis of documentary checks, staff meetings and interviews in the NRA building and on this basis the relevant recommendations were made and one of the most common problems was related to installations and maintenance including the fire extinguishing system. It has been noted that no matter how long a system has been operating with regard to the change of hardware, it should be sufficiently well built and maintained. The case at the National Revenue Agency is also due to the fact that there has been a lot of pressure in terms of providing more e-services for the purpose of serving citizens. It is pointed out that the question concerning the liability of third parties is of the respective contractor, the owner of the system. In case there is a single system integration, its responsibility would be to synchronise all actions of all stakeholders in the process of building, development, maintenance, network and cyber information security. In response to the questions raised by the MPs, representatives of the Appeals Specialized Prosecutor's Office and the Special Prosecutor's Office noted that a number of officials have been questioned and there is no evidence that the act was committed with the help or assistance of an employee from the tax or other administration. They added that at that time there was no information to have been manipulated or compromised data with personal identification codes or qualified e-codes by stating that the purpose of the hacking, according to the investigative actions carried out, was to cause disturbance in the population and destabilization of the country, as well as public relations in this area. The representatives of the Supreme Council of Laws and the Notary Chamber stressed that due to their active collaboration, including with the Ministry of Interior over the years, there are limited opportunities to commit abuse of personal data. The representatives of the National Revenue Agency and the Ministry of Finance noted that the possibility of implementing a two-factor identification of the employees of the NRA and the administrators and the need to conduct training of the employees of the relevant administrative departments is to be analysed. The report follows a long list of all persons invited and heard at the meetings of the Temporary Committee of inquiry. I will move on, Madam President, to the conclusions and conclusions. From the discussions held, it can be pointed out that in the last 20 years the communication and information infrastructure of the public administration has been established in stages as independent systems satisfying the functions of the relevant administration. The need to provide electronic services has led to significant changes in the original architecture of the built systems, which in many cases has been done by upgrades by various contractors and the admission of security compromises to systems in order to meet requirements for access to information. Most of the projects have been financed by budget and the funding opportunities under operational programmes have not been used, especially in recent years, when it was necessary to replace obsolete hardware and software systems. After completion of the warranty periods under the relevant contracts by the administrative authorities, sufficient support funds were not planned and provided for in a large percentage of the cases. As a result of a public procurement appeal in a number of cases, systems have operated over a long period without maintenance and updating of open and disclosed vulnerability system software. Due to the delay in replacing hardware and software, vulnerable systems are operating to remove which need to be completely renovated and in some cases re-established. It is a significant case of the draining of NRA information where, after the expiry of the warranty period of the information system, different components are maintained by different service providers, which has led to some imperfections and not always effective functioning. Overcoming weaknesses can only be carried out by means of complex measures involving compliance with a single architecture, the definition of a single system operator, a change in the attitude of all administrative authorities on network and information security issues and the gradual establishment of a new culture and behaviour in relation to cybersecurity. Findings and recommendations: 1. Audit of the systems of all central and municipal administrations by central and local authorities prioritized to the amount of data and potential risk shall be carried out. 2. The management of the NRA shall comply with the findings of the Commission's personal data protection report in the verification carried out as of August 2019. 3. When concluding contracts for the construction and maintenance of information systems by the Ministry of Finance and secondary authorising officers to include liability clauses by contractors to allow for liability and in the event of a guilty failure to comply with the contracts. 4. The management of the National Revenue Agency should take the necessary action to fully comply with the requirement of the Law on Electronic Governance, the new Ordinance on General Requirements for Network and Information Security adopted last year, and the related internal rules and procedures regarding compliance with all network and information security requirements in order to avoid incidents and collapse of supporting information systems. 5. To introduce requirements for the configuration of specialized software for the detection and prevention of penetrations, as well as carrying out mandatory penetration tests at least once a year, depending on the risk, in order to detect vulnerability. 6. To carry out mandatory trainings of experts from all departments in the state and municipal administration responsible for the development, implementation and maintenance of information systems, as well as trainings for the protection of personal data. 7. All state and municipal administrations shall review the procedures for the selection of candidates for civil servants, pay attention to the education and speciality of candidates, and, where possible, to increase their staff costs with regard to system administrators. 8. The Council of Ministers should change, according to the available budget options, the Secretary of State of Administration with regard to the upper limit of the remuneration of system administrators. 9. In the construction of new informational arrays containing data on natural and legal persons and in the maintenance of existing competent public authorities to pay serious attention and to closely monitor the finding of balance in providing electronic services to citizens and commercial companies and cyber security of data. 10. To change the Personal Data Protection Act and the Personal Data Protection Commission to be able to seek personal administrative and criminal liability towards officials with the personal data controllers concerned. At present, their competence is limited to giving prescriptions once they find that the administrator does not comply with the requirements. In the event of non-execution, the Commission may sanction the relevant controller of personal data. The last recommendation is in several points: "11." To prepare and introduce legislative changes to the Criminal Code in the following guidelines: 1. To introduce stricter penalties for cybercrime in Chapter 9 of the Criminal Code "Computer Crimes." The most severe punishment is currently within five years of imprisonment. 2. To create a new definition of the acts related to computer crimes along the changed social relations. 3. To accept new formations of crimes that reflect the changes that have occurred, as well as the new forms of criminal offences that we have witnessed in recent years, both nationally and internationally. 4. When adopting the new concept of criminal policy to pay particular attention to the need to formulate in a whole new way the compositions of the crimes under Chapter 9. Thank you for the patience of the Members of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. Would you also present the draft Decision in its entirety?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u30	Thank you. Project! DECISION on the Activity Report of the Temporary Committee of inquiry to clarify all the facts and circumstances surrounding the case of the draining of information from the electronic database of the National Revenue Agency The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Adopts the Report on the activities of the Temporary Committee of inquiry to clarify all the facts and circumstances surrounding the case of the draining of information from the electronic database of the National Revenue Agency; Mr. President, I am obliged to note that the report was given a special opinion by the representatives of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, who I suppose will present this particular opinion or read it? How would you like it, gentlemen?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u31	Introduce him.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u32	The Commission report does not show in a clear and firm way the responsibility of the managements of the Ministry of Finance and the National Revenue Agency. The Minister of Finance is the principal of the NRA, and for the technical, software, personnel and organisational measures to prevent regulated access to the informational arrays is the management of the NRA. This responsibility is clearly, detailly and unambiguously indicated by the verification of the NRA carried out by the Commission for the protection of personal data. The Members of the National Assembly shall share the findings and conclusions of the Report, which was provided to the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data and to the hearing held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. I'm opening the debate. Before the discussions, a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chairman, I'm addressing you. Ms. Karayancheva, who led to the meeting just now, I do not know why and how she allowed the Commission rapporteur not to read the whole report and miss out on a very substantial part of it, in my opinion, namely the recommendations made by the Commission for the protection of personal data to the National Revenue Agency. It is logical that the large number of recommendations correspond to the large number of omissions that have been admitted into the NRA's personal data protection system, but that part of the Report has been spared to us. I note here that I do not make this statement in any way by accident or simply to seek some personal responsibility from you or from Mrs Karayancheva, who led the meeting until just now. The Personal Data Protection Commission in the midst of this scandal over the leak of NRA data came up with one information that said that, even before the data leak incident happened, not one or two recommendations were made to the NRA.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u35	Mr. Danchev, excuse me, but is the procedure the way it is?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u36	The procedure is the way it's run. The part of the report that has been missed is very important. One more sentence to explain why it is important to read this thing. A recommendation was made by the NRA, for example, to make a double identifier for access to the available data of individuals in the NRA system. And after a while he had come back and answered from the NRA that it had been fulfilled. In addition to EGN, which was the first identifier, the NRA also entered a second mandatory identifier for access to personal data, namely the birth date of the person for whom reference is sought. You understand that, obviously, the recommendations of the Commission for the protection of personal data are an extremely important element of this report and therefore had to be read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u38	Read it again, even if it was read?! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u39	After the report has been read, I think that any one of you who wants can also take note of the recommendations. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Gechev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We signed this report with a particular opinion. Why did we even sign? Because, after all, the Commission benefited. I have good things to say. A lot of truths have been established by the President and colleagues, so the Commission's work has been useful. However, when you read the particular opinion, fellow MPs and Bulgarian citizens understood why the opinion was special. In addition, my dear colleague Tzipov, listening to the report, I commented with my colleagues that there is something important missing from the conclusion, as you have read it. You have missed why we should not offer the government and the president to award the Stara Planina with first degree all responsible persons in the NRA and the Ministry of Finance? It's such a beautiful report, but how the computer was invented, but how they broke through Fiji, but how there are millions of gigabytes in the world, and here a little information came out. But they're for the old mountain first degree. There's no way Parliament has to offer to reward them. So what happened? It's not that big of a deal. On 15 July 2019 we found out that six million people of all Bulgarian citizens, and those who died, had come out. All Bulgarian companies, in fact over 800 thousand, have released the data, but this does not bother you, this is an unfortunate event. The second tragedy is how is it found that all our information came out on July 15th? Well, a 20-year-old genius, as the prime minister put it, called the National Revenue Agency and said, "Good morning, Aunt, let's let you know that we've taken out 6 million and 800,000 people of information."............................................................................... But nothing has happened, it's a small thing. - How did this little thing happen, so we're sweeping the trail now? And this is where everything is being done to explain when the computer was discovered and what the results are! Dear colleagues, here is the Report of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data of the State Institution. It's the only institution I want to praise, I don't know people, they came and they did their job perfectly. And what did they say? I quote 20 synthesized things: "1." An organizational structure built for the protection of personal data but does not function, they say. It has structure, but it doesn't work. 2. The continued independent development of applications for electronic services to citizens has debalanced the data protection system. 3. The main responsibilities for information security are focused in the IT Directorate. There are no written rules and procedures for the protection of personal data. No rules, no procedures. Colleagues, in good faith, I am merely quoting one to a State Agency. 4. At the date of unauthorized access and dissemination of personal data on 15 July 2019, no sufficiently restrictive measures for access to a database have been provided for policies for the formation of access profiles for applications. 5. The principle of accountability has been violated. I keep quoting. No audit records of individual events and diaries are missing. In each security system there is: who enters the system, at what time, what information it uses, in what volume, in what content. I won't! 6. The Commission for Personal Data Protection said that there is no risk management methodology. 7. No evidence of the risk analysis of the systems and operations of the processing of information has been provided. 8. No evidence of an impact assessment has been provided for an identified high risk for each system. 9. There are no documented rules and procedures for impact assessment. 10. No data are available on the initiation of an adaptation procedure for information systems under European Union regulations. The tragedy continues at point eleven of the State Commission. 11. No action has been taken to update Windows operating systems since 2013 and 2016. I add by myself what became clear in the hearings. Dear colleagues and citizens! Since 2008, experts in quotes have not updated the operating system. How many years is that? Eleven years they don't change the operating system! And this has been established by the other state authorities. 12. There is no established Centre for restoring the performance of systems in real time. 13. There are no policies for processing special categories of data under art. 9 of the European Union Regulation. 16. There are no policies and procedures for processing children's data, the reuse of such data, tracking mechanisms. 17. There are no adopted strategies and policies for encryption of data from archive or one-time references. 18. The principle of independence of the DPA is violated, is contained in a hierarchical subordination of the Director of the Security Directorate and no clear rules and obligations are included in its function. 19. The staff of the NRA shall sign a non-information declaration, but their official characteristics shall not include any obligation to process personal data of natural persons. 20. There are no internal training and training rules for NRA staff for actions in the event of unlawful processing of personal data. Twenty points of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data I read to you, one to one exactly, collegially. What's clear about this job? A complete tragedy at the National Revenue Agency, organizational chaos, management irresponsibility! Dear colleagues, this is not a matter of data leaking on 15 July at all. The genius boy, when he called his aunt at the NRA to tell her he stole the data, he called her on July 15th. Do you think other hackers didn't get into the NRA before July 15th? Because it contradicts the logic of not entering. Whoever asked for this tragic organization came in. We do not know which companies were taking information from their competitors, from which citizens. Can anyone claim that after one 20-year-old boy overcomes an anarchical system that others have not entered the system? They've been in! The tragedy is complete. On 16 July we have notified the institutions of the European Union. And what's the score? Not only the leak of these data, but Austria, Germany, Belgium, France, I think, stopped the exchange of data with Bulgaria. And so far we don't know if data exchange has been restored. I don't think he's recovered. Do you know what that means? This means that these countries do not give information to the NRA what taxes Bulgarian companies pay in commercial operations in these countries.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u41	That's not true! Stop lying, man.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u42	Besides, what did the NRA do? Take a look: firstly, appoint an internal audit the next day, on 16 July 2019, then pay attention, the NRA concludes an external audit contract with whom? With "Instructional systems" (AD) a state-owned company. Great! However, dear friends, the National Revenue Agency 2019 has signed a contract with.................................................................................................... lv. for three years. I repeat, 40, four times ten million levs. So the government's Information Agency gets 40 million in three years. And the guy who gets 40 million is gonna do a great, splattering audit of the National Revenue Agency! But that's against common sense. It's a conflict of interest! How does a company that gets $40 million out of the budget audit go? What's he gonna find out? That she was well paid 40 million! By the way, speaking of the sum, I went to the Secret Section, asked and were... so reluctant, but provided contracts for the supply of services by external software companies. I've collected the contracts of the last three years: 52 million. lv. total are given to external service providers, including 40 million specifically to It is a very interesting company. To remind you, this is the company, which, colleagues, performs a not very important activity - they count the votes in the elections.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u43	That's not true! The committees are counting.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u44	Very interesting, they count the votes in the elections. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I ask myself now, there will be a check from now on. This money, when they have gone to the Information Systems, will ask and we will receive information about what premiums the CEOs of companies have received. Colleagues, you know I ask questions that I've checked the answers to. Very interesting answers. How much did they get as bonuses for the last three years, and who did? The second interesting question next, who are the contributors of the state-owned company? And there's going to be a lot of nosy performers there. This is gonna get really interesting. Therefore, there are more questions than answers. Besides, how is it possible to allow such a disaster in the NRA? Well, there are personnel questions. And now watch out, dear colleagues, TV viewers and radio listeners! There are two directorates at the National Revenue Agency dealing with information services. So what does it come out of? I looked at the education by law they answer with higher education. However, a lot of curious things from the first financial information system's prevention unit, the NRA's Inspectorate Unit, have been assigned 65 people, of which 65% have no education in computers, software, mathematics and so on. In the second Directorate of Information Systems and Modelling of Business Processes 57 people are employed, 23 of them have an education in this area, i.e. below 50%, others have diplomas and professions outside this area. What's that? Very interesting! He has teachers, he has a decent profession; he has a fireman, he has a higher education; he has a thermal energy; he has an agrarian economy expert; he has a chemist; he has food industry technology; he has a geodesist; he has a photographer. [[Laughter]] ; there is environmental protection. And now there are two interesting professions in the NRA's informatics of a navigator-director. [[Laughter and applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] This looks like World War III, he's gonna fool enemy planes into hitting the NRA server. [[(Noise and applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) Noise and lines by GERB.)]] So we're.. no matter what happens, the server is guaranteed. There's a specialist... [[Heckling]] This is information from the NRA that we asked for, because there must also be a little sense of humor at the end, as the data is very disturbing. There is an appointment in the Protection of Information Systems. This is the most secure with secondary education there is a graduate sports shooting at a sports school. This gave an answer to my reflection for many days what does this sports shooting specialist do? And I find the answer. Have you noticed when you pass by the NRA that there is always an open window on the top floor? Well, that's the sniper shooter over there! [[Laughter]] But if a hacker shows up somewhere in Sofia, he shoots him with mathematical precision. I recommend to the parliamentary group of GERB and the government that you should appoint three more, as you have covered only one direction in the north, this is not good. Three more have to be assigned. Then no geniuses will infiltrate the NRA. And for this reason, I want to tell you that the tragedy is huge because no one has been called for responsibility! Is that normal? The Ministry of Finance Minister, Deputy Minister in charge, has an Information Security Directorate in the Ministry of Finance for the whole system. The head of the NRA is on leave. I don't know where he's resting, he's not interrupting his leave. No responsibility! Substitutes, no responsibility! At least the janitor would have fired the National Revenue Agency. No one is punished for this tragedy! Isn't that impertinent?! Isn't that a sweep of the tracks?! Moreover, the Minister of Finance is now proposing an increase in wages in the NRA in information! Honourable Members, seriously speaking, we really need to raise the salaries of the information specialists. Only to whom do we increase wages? Those who have leaked all of Bulgaria's information, we will increase their salaries first! [[GERB lines.]] Second, outsiders' money is increasing... what are we paying them for? What does the Commission find? A huge tragedy, first. Secondly, you're trying to cover your tracks, which is not going to happen. And thirdly, the immediate resignation of everyone responsible for becoming a disgrace to the whole of Europe. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. Are there any lines, coworkers? Come in, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Today we have had the opportunity to get acquainted with the Report of the Temporary Committee of inquiry, which aimed to clarify the facts and circumstances of the draining, I stress the draining, information and personal data of citizens, companies, which was last year. An unfortunate incident, however, which, apart from an accident, is also a crime under the Penal Code, which is a serious crime against business and Bulgarian citizens. To my great joy, the apocalyptic predictions of colleagues on the left have not been realized that this will hardly block, the accounts of Bulgarian citizens will be drained, companies will be bankrupt and so on. I think that then the management of the NRA and the state itself took timely and decisive actions to inform citizens about the draining of the information and to prevent any such abuse of the personal data of the Bulgarian citizens and companies. For me, the Commission of inquiry with the conclusions and proposals is much of the goal for which it was created. Because in the recommendations the colleague on the left pointed out a lot of things, read as gaps that did not come into the Report, and previously the report clearly and distinctly listed them that they exist as recommendations, legislative initiatives and other possible guidelines to improve the protection of personal data and fully update the cyber security system in Bulgaria. Whatever we talk about, colleagues, this is a topic that will increasingly enter our daily lives. The typewriters may have long remained in history the same will happen as technology progresses, and the increasing demands, and the funds to be allocated to the protection of personal information, and to protect the Bulgarian citizens, the state and the Bulgarian companies from such attacks. Unfortunately, colleagues, during the Commission, we have witnessed the many meetings we have had, we have seen that we are not a global precedent. [[GERB's line.]] This is where they help me out of the gym, thank you for that. In the United States, you know what large institutions, billions of dollars of funds allocated to protect against cyber attacks, have failed to stop the young brains, as Professor Gechev said, because exactly 20-year-olds, Professor, are the ones who have the knowledge and methods to carry out such attacks. Unfortunately, it's not like the older ones, and there may be hackers like that, but they don't appear. Young, intelligent people interested in modern systems seem to know how to drill them, how to hack them. Therefore, the Commission drew attention to these funds, what specialists should be attracted to the state apparatus, the administration of highly specialized, profiled, however, play the modern methods of remuneration in Europe and in the world that can attract them. So we need to create this attractive environment to keep them in Bulgaria, to make them work for the state. Once again, I will stress here that you cannot oppose me, colleagues: from the closed meetings that we had, I will not disclose any more of them because they are confidential, from the hearings that were, it is evident that this breakthrough was clearly and purposefully, for one purpose or for another, economic or political. I'm not getting into this anymore. I think you have the right to your particular opinion, which to me is purely political, is not expert. For me, the Commission has done its work without party biases and on a really good level, taking into account all invited and heard at the numerous meetings of the Temporary Committee of inquiry. In the report we expressed, in these 11 points, if memory serves me, to improve the environment and recommendations, including such a legislative initiative, on which I think that in the future, colleagues from the opposition, we can seek consensus on these crimes against the Bulgarian citizens, against the Bulgarian business and against the Bulgarian state in the Criminal Code. The hacking of such a state system for me can be measured as a kind of terrorism against the state. Thank you. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? The line, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u48	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Ivanov! Colleague, I think you should take a little more time to focus on the problems that we pointed out in the Report and the work that we have done, because after reading the Report, we attended a circus that has no analogue that is so serious about bringing it down below the street level of debate. In this regard, I am very tempted to ask you: why did you not declare a conflict of interest? So you're a master of rifle shooting. What are you doing here? [[Applause from GERB.]] We understand that the navigator guide can't work in the public administration. That we have a president, what's the problem? Do we have a problem? Because they both work in the same cabin! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Finally, a colleague, please explain to our colleagues because they do not care about the seriousness of the debate. They care about the circus, explain to them that when there is a crime involving our national security, there is an investigation in the prosecution, in the DANS, in the services that they should do. No one else can give out from here or anywhere, because this country is still, despite the wishes of some, the rule of law! And all this goes to court. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The only one in this parliamentary Republic of Bulgaria is the court that can issue sentences! [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] Yes, you Communist heirs like to give sentences! Only this time won't come back! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u49	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Second line?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u50	Why don't you punish him? Punish him!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u51	Is there another line? Mr. Ivanov, come in. [[Replications between the MPs Manoil Manev and Rumen Gechev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u52	Why are you insulting Boyko Borisov, mate? Why are you insulting the Prime Minister? I'm outraged! [[Extreme lines between the MPs Manoil Manev and Rumen Gechev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the line...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u54	Wait a minute, Mr. Ivanov. Colleagues! Excuse me, Mr. Manev, Mr. Gechev, take your seats.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u55	He insults the Prime Minister, Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u56	Please, the plenary is no place to settle disputes in this way. Mr. Manev, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u57	Don't take that tone with me. When you sit up there [[pointing at the seat of the President]] Well, then...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u58	Mr. Manev, please sit down. Mr. Manev, please. Go on, dear Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! However, I insist on keeping the good tone, and I think we are able to do so, but indeed Mr. Manev's call is correct. Here the debate was to be not as political but entirely expert as was the work of the Commission, for which I thank my fellow Members from all the parliamentary groups who took part in it. In this regard, however, to say that there are other deserving archers in the Chamber, and not only on our side of the Chamber, I see here the person I want to refer to. Since the unspeakable ends with humour, he said humor is important, and I'm going to take the liberty of bringing in a little humor without anyone being offended and offended, I hope. They listed the gentleman who has a sports education in sports shooting works at the institution. Mr. Manev, you didn't tell me then, 1996, what experts were in another institution that was responsible for not bankrupting the state and 17 banks. This question is also important. In the realm of humor, I say. Thank you. [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u60	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Thank you, and for that Mr. Ivanov, do not challenge anyone to a duel, please. Mr. Manev, please come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u61	Mr. Chairman, I only want to address you with one thing. In the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria, every member of parliament can speak and is responsible for what he says. But when he came down from the stands, using the protection of the walls of this historic place, to throw insults and slanders at the address of a MP who spoke from the stand, about what he said from the stands, Mr. Chairman. It is not even impertinent, for a man cannot know that he will not receive an answer in any way to what he is saying, to what he is doing, to hide behind that he is a representative of the people and to do so in the Chamber, and no one should take any attitude! [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u62	Thank you, dear Mr. Manev. You're absolutely right. That's why the President's role is in such heated disputes to try... [[Reply from the National Representative Manol Genov.]] I'll give you all the floor. Mr. Genov, and you will get it after Mr. Gechev. You'll probably want my resignation, fine. [[Radio, lines.]] Mr. Gechev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u63	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My reaction was because you allowed a colleague of our political opponents to make assessments on the left side of the House [[Replications from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov and Alexander Ivanov.]] Ladies and gentlemen, according to statistical information, about 80 percent of your members here are former members of the BCP! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I objected because I respect the state institutions and mentioned the Prime Minister, who was an active member of the BCP, and you insult him! I'm outraged. You have no right to insult the Prime Minister! The Prime Minister is an institution in the Republic of Bulgaria!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u64	Mr. Gechev, can you come to me? Mr. Gechev, this is...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u65	Yeah. Don't let them insult the party with which 80 per cent are related. You are also connected to the prime minister. That's not good. [[Laughter from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] I object and I want you to intervene whenever they insult the Prime Minister, the entire leadership of Parliament and your parliamentary group. So keep it low and low. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u66	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. You disappoint me a little bit, but we're moving on. [[Laughter from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Here you are, dear Mr. Genov. [[Replicate from the National Representative Alexander Ivanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u67	Yes, in the manner of conduct, colleague, I don't want to disappoint the chairman. Mr. Hristov, here just now from this platform, a colleague said that someone who does not go out on the stand and speaks from the hall leads to some kind of chaos in the behavior of the MPs in this meeting. I suggest that you remove Mr. Manev from this meeting at his first call from place, because along with my friend Lancho, I look that he is gone, they are one of the most active not of this tribune, but from place. So I suggest that you take appropriate measures in the first instance of his violation of the terms spoken by this place, because I do not know if you understood the subtext earlier, but he also requested your resignation. So take the role of first among equals, exercise the Rules, and I do not want to comment on the Communists, Mr. Gechev before me was comprehensive enough, so do not insult the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. I call on you, colleagues! Please, from the heart!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u68	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Personal explanation, Mr. Manev. Mr. Gurnevsky, in the manner of conduct. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u69	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I take advantage of the personal explanation procedure, even though I know this circus has to end eventually. [[Replys: "Eee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u70	Mr. Manev, the personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u71	And in relation to what I'm about to say, within the personal explanation of both colleagues just now. The colleague who was here last, from the hall, did not call anything, he did not call any words, and he said that I was also a member of the BCP. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This is an insult to me, colleague, and I would sue you. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That's not true. [[Calls from the auditorium]] Only I can't prove it now, because that's where you called him, so tell him to put it on the record. And in the context of the personal explanation, I want to tell you one more thing. All of us, where we sit and where we stand, complain that we have a low parliament rating. You can't have a higher rating with these performances if that's what you're interested in! And me, colleagues, because we're in a personal explanation, I'm only interested in one thing - to be able to look at my grandfather's legacy every morning in the mirror and have nothing to be ashamed of. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u72	Thank you, dear Mr. Manev. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Gurnevsky, come in. No, no. A personal explanation of a personal explanation. [[Reference between the President and the Members of Parliament.]] Here you go, Mr. Gurnevsky, and then I'm gonna ask you to come back to the subject. Mr. Gokov, you too? Okay, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u73	Mr. Chairman, I'm addressing you in the manner of conduct. When they become human from this tribune and plead for the economic protection of the state and state institutions, first of all to declare who did what damage to the state before they pleaded. [[Noise and single applause from GERB.]] Mr. Manol Genov is a year and a half director of the Water and Water Department Plovdiv, a million and a half losses and bankruptcy of the company. He released thousands a month! [[Applause from GERB.]] The end of the water supply is Plovdiv. It's a small matter! You call a man a professor here. He's not a professor, he's a super academic of European and world class. In two years he has caused Bulgaria's worst bankruptcy in all 1300 years. Here you are, safe and sound! Good afternoon, Mr. Academician. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u74	Thank you, Mr. Gurnevsky. Here you are, Mr. Genov, but I really appeal to common sense to get back to the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u75	Yes, yes, I have absolutely common sense. I'm sorry I didn't bring my written poem about Georgi Dimitrov's portrait, but other times I'll recite it from a place very accurate so I don't remember. Mr. Gurnevski, first of all, when I was there for a year and a half, I've collected 2 million claims that are inextricable, from the Roma neighborhood, from the ones that you forgave and campaigned to vote for you, and you said, "We will fix your electricity, and don't worry about the water!" [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] So don't think that some people don't remember what happened in the years. [[GERB lines.]] No, I'm not lying, I'm telling the truth. I can get you publications from the newspaper Maritsa from the 1990s. [[GERB lines.]] Currently, the water is one of the prosperous companies and I do not know how, when I went bankrupt, suddenly it emerges and Mr. Gurnevski pays his water for two levs, not four levs as in Dobrich. So, Mr. Gurnevsky, watch your mouth, don't abuse your presence on this stand and your status as MP. Because tomorrow we all, including you and I, will not be MPs, somewhere we will meet on the street and have to look into each other's eyes, Mr. Gurnevsky!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u76	Mr. Genov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u77	Not to look down, we have to look each other in the eye. And when you speculate from this tribune, I remember that Mr. Gechev condemned one for such fairy tales. Don't make him do it to you. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB and applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u78	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I'm taking an appeal procedure to get back on the subject. In this House you really always say: not to politicize, the debate is economic, the debate is expert, the debate is specific, but this House is political and based on the expert opinions in the working committee we must speak politically, and the political statements lead to what is currently happening in this House, because behind the political speeches are also political responsibilities. And our group asks: who will bear the responsibility? Say, "The Minister of Finance, the head of the NRA, the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister." But, Mr. Chairman, my procedure in the manner of conduct is when they come out of this Chamber of Members and want to declare a conflict of interest or whether someone has done damage, let's not go to the State and to the Commercial Association of VK, but to declare, and when we were mayors, did we do any damage to the municipality to which we were mayors?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u80	Where am I in this case, Mr. Svilensky?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u81	In this case, you are to supplement the procedure and when such a person comes out to want to talk, to say: "I have not done any left-handed damage to the municipality that I have managed.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u82	You know better than that, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u83	And since the Deputy Prime Minister was accused, even though it was twenty years ago, I would like to remind colleagues, he said it several times, and I will pay tribute, the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Affairs is not responsible for the bankruptcy of the banks. Remember that and don't use it again.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u84	Mr. Svilensky, please, something specific to me. Finish your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u85	BNB and the Ministry of Finance are responsible for controlling the banks. Then Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Chairman, was Mr. Radev, who you have now elected as Governor of BNB.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u86	Finish it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u87	And the Minister of Finance is Mr. Kostov, whom you have chosen as BNB's sub-governor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u88	Your time is up, Mr. Svilensky. Would you like to graduate?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u89	And let's stop this topic. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u90	Thank you, too. Colleagues, I appreciate the humor and satire, and I appreciate your heat, but let's really get back to the subject. Mr. Gokov, will you complete all statements related to the manner of conduct?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. President, I appeal to you. I do not know why you have admitted all this work, and I call for us to return to the subject. I'm looking at these young people up there. [[He points at the balcony.]] With that tone we've been talking for half an hour, can you imagine what these people think of the National Assembly? I beg you from this tribune not to let such MPs as Mr. Manev, like Mr. Garnevski, to blow up the situation, to talk about the rating, and in this case to ruin it. I urge you to stop this thing and come back on this subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u92	Not to me, Mr. Gokov, but to colleagues. Again in the manner of conduct, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u93	Mr. Chairman, with all due respect to you and to the House, I appeal to you not to allow Members of the National Assembly to go out and tell you who to allow to speak and who not to speak from the platform of the National Assembly, after being legitimately elected National Representative of the Republic of Bulgaria by the Bulgarian citizens. How can a Member of the National Assembly come out and tell you, the chairman, who can you allow to speak? This imposition of censorship is absolutely unacceptable. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u94	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. You're absolutely right, but understand me. Mr. Gokov likes to lecture me often, so I'm not particularly impressed. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Chenchev had a statement. And you, Mr. Popov? [[Heckling]] It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As always, on really important topics, when there is a fair criticism, when someone should be held accountable, here we are embarking on some procedural trickery, in insults, in returning history before Khan Krum perhaps in Bulgaria. So I'm asking for a five-minute break on behalf of a group. Let us return to the subject, discuss this important topic and who will ultimately bear responsibility, not listen to the outbursts of two MPs from the government here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u96	Ten minutes off. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u97	Colleagues, we are continuing the debate. Dear Mr. Chenchev, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u98	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Before I entered this room as a MP, I guess you all know, I worked as a journalist. I will now tell you what has impressed me as a journalist on the subject and, of course, the subject that we are now looking at today in relation to the report. What does this report state, and why do we have a particular opinion? Colleague Gechev read you 20 recommendations from the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data. Have they been executed? They didn't! Why? Since 2008, we haven't had any operation to change operating systems. Why? Who's responsible? Is there anyone to blame? As it becomes clear, there is no punishment, not one! What's this? Why should the person responsible and the Committee of Polls determine who he is, have no such result? A report is entered in the National Assembly, it is read for 45 minutes "49 minutes, Mr. Ivanov, with the decisions. With the decisions! Forty-five minutes was the report, and none of us understood what this committee was locking down and what it found. In fact, we understand that there are 20 serious unfulfilled recommendations. Twenty! And their failure led to what we all witnessed.. absolutely blocking the entire system of the National Revenue Agency, foreign countries, which stopped the information flow with our country. And there's not a single culprit in all of this! That's what we need to discuss, not talk about communists, everything else! And yes, Mr. Chairman, that's why there were so many procedures in the way of conduct. Not only did we get off the subject, but we got into some other topics, which, by the way, were dictated here by this tribune, earlier today during the day. Because there was also an insult to Bulgarian citizens from a political party in a declaration. But neither did the Chief Assembly before you make a remark, and you did not make a comment. It wasn't until after, when the storm broke out here, in a manner of speaking, that you took some measures. So, on the subject. Let someone or the gentlemen of the NRA come out and say do they see responsible, guilty? Because if, as the colleague said, this 20-year-old genius who calls on the phone and signals that the system has been hacked and that it is quite normal before then in such a lack of protection of this system, because the operating systems have not been renewed, have not been upgraded for eleven years, notice, well, we can certainly assume that there has been another breakthrough. Was there such a thing as to say the people of the NRA or specifically and directly responsible for this direction? We're on a committee of inquiry for how many months!? By the way, ladies and gentlemen of the House, how long did this report not enter the Chamber? How long was a prepared report not allowed by the President of the National Assembly in plenary? And why is that? Why?? Can we assume as opposition that you're hiding it? Of course we can. We can do it! If he's not ready and he's not allowed that long, we can! We want these doubts to dispel, nothing more! But we don't. Rather, you are not doing it because with your reactions and the way you are leading the debate, what you have shifted as a topic has come to this point that Bulgarian citizens can now not properly understand what actually happened in the NRA. We ourselves can't navigate a 45-minute report, and in the end, nothing! It reads in four minutes two solutions. Of course there are dissatisfied, of course there are misunderstood. Leave the room here! The people outside need to know what happened. Their data has expired! Theirs! Even the data of their deceased loved ones has leaked, about the companies, about the danger and it continues to exist. Can anyone now guarantee that the drained data will not be used by someone for corporate purposes or for any other benefit? Can anyone guarantee that they leaked this data once before? Now, whatever we do, haven't we heard something extremely disturbing, ladies and gentlemen of the House? Namely, 52 million. lv. are given for a contract with supplier, 52 million. lv. For what? And before that, how many were given? Well, given how they've been spent, when 11 years hasn't done anything and we have 6 million data drained? And now we're giving 52 million! And when we go outside, they'll say, "What did you give that money for? What did you vote for? Budgets! These are the important questions! And we all need to find an answer here to dispel the doubts and get to the truth. Isn't that what the temporary committee of inquiry is about? I am sure that each one of us has an interest in finding out what the truth is and that this truth is coming out so it won't happen again. We can all at some point be affected by this thing and no one guarantees us that it won't happen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u99	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. - What's the line? I won't. Statements? Mr. Tzipov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I want to join the words that Professor Gechev started with. I believe that there was a need for this committee of inquiry, at least because it produced a report with all the written applications and information received from the competent state authorities whose representatives were heard at the eight committee meetings. We've heard from the negotiators that this report didn't make any sense. Well, there's no telling, gentlemen, because it has to be read! It should at least be read about the apps and the information I was just talking about. There are enough findings in them to show what is the picture in the public administration with regard to information security and cyber security. There's nothing to be fooled about. There's trouble. These problems are caused by a number of circumstances, the most important of which is that for the last probably more than 20 years there is not enough investment, there is not enough budget expenditure in terms of creating such information systems, of maintaining such information systems. Many examples can be given where, when these information systems have been created, it has not even gone through the mind of the managers of these administrations, Professor Gechev, to provide support. [[Replications from the National Representative Rumen Gechev.]] Is that right? That was one of the main conclusions we established. Another important conclusion for me, which we have found, is that the NRA in their desire to provide more electronic services to Bulgarian citizens have not made enough efforts to ensure information security. In both hearings, they recognized this in a form of form. Is that right? That's right. [[Replications from the National Representative Rumen Gechev.]] But using qualifications that the relevant information system had not been maintained for 11 years?! Dear colleagues, read what is actually written in the information submitted! Read how this corresponds to your statement that so many millions have been spent, and this system has not been maintained?! [[Heckling]] Has it become clear to the MPs from the speeches so far who is committed to the development and maintenance of the NRA's information systems? No! And what is the answer, honourable Members? The answer is that these systems were developed mainly by employees of the National Revenue Agency. Perhaps I will call on Mrs. Dimitrova to finally make a statement so that we can understand at least what happened after she completed the work of the Committee of Polls in early December, namely what has happened so far, what the NRA has continued to do until this day to increase the security of the information contained in its informational arrays. Dear Members of Parliament, I do not think that we can speak lightly that a system has not been maintained for more than 10 years. However, really get acquainted to read what actions have been done over the years back. I'd like you to meet her. [[Heckling]] Don't lightly throw accusations! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Nobody took responsibility?! Directly responsible persons " and the Head of the Information Security Department and the Head of the Inspectorate of the National Revenue Agency are no longer staff of the Agency. However, let us remind ourselves that criminal proceedings are pending. Representatives of the Appeals Specialized and Specialized Prosecutors explained quite clearly that cyber terrorism is involved. This is one of the charges that have been brought to the defendants. Have we seen in recent years such criminal acts on the territory of Bulgaria? No! It is for this reason that we have identified one of our serious problems in the legislation in force. There are many new forms of criminal abuse associated with computer systems and technology. Unfortunately, our legal framework, and in its part of the Penal Code, is clearly not adequate enough. There can be no provision for the highest penalty of freedom for 5 years for a serious computer crime that could affect tens, hundreds or millions of natural or legal persons. Indeed, instead of focusing, uniting, and reaching consensus on seeing what needs to be changed in this situation, we are conveniently using some data without reading any other data. But I will not continue in this spirit, but I will call for more responsibility because I believe that this cyber incident was serious enough in itself, and the entire state administration must make maximum efforts to prevent such incidents from happening in the future. How can this be achieved? With the recommendations we have given as MPs, members of this Temporary Committee of inquiry! I would like to state from this tribune that these recommendations have been commented on and I believe that we have reached some kind of consensus on them. Some of these recommendations can be implemented immediately, for others s require more time or more funds. We must look at the situation that has been created in order to require the public administration to ultimately present some report on the implementation of these recommendations. It makes sense from such committees of inquiry, when a retrial is subsequently held, whether it will be in the same format, the Commission of inquiry or the plenary, in order to understand how all the recommendations have been implemented, each one of them, what funds have been allocated. That's the purpose of a committee of inquiry. [[Replications from the National Representative Rumen Gechev.]] We are neither an investigative body nor an administrative-punishing body, dear Professor Gechev! [[Replications from the National Representative Rumen Gechev.]] No! Well, we've heard such statements that those responsible should be punished. We heard it from you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u101	Please don't engage in dialogue. [[Replications from the National Representative Rumen Gechev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u102	No, no! We have heard from you that responsible persons should be punished with the appropriate sanctions!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u103	Mr. Gechev! [[Replications from the National Representative Rumen Gechev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u104	No, no! And I am inclined to agree with you that you must take responsibility, but it must be sought where there is.... at all its levels. On all her levels! Let me note, however, that criminal proceedings have not been completed. Once this criminal proceedings are concluded, we can also draw our political conclusions, honourable Members. If this criminal proceedings prove in an indisputable way that there is cyber terrorism by these persons or that there are guilty others, including officials, they must receive their deserved punishment, but to put the wagon in front of the horse I do not think it is right. However, some facts and circumstances have also become known in the media space related to the company in question, which has been offering its services to the public administration for a long time and has obviously acted on certain schemes: hire us, we will find your weaknesses in your computer systems and technologies, and you will pay us some very good sums. What does this look like to you, honourable Members of the House? What does it look like?!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u105	Rocket!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u106	I would like to conclude by calling to the Executive Director of the NRA Mrs. Dimitrova to present what the Agency has done in recent months. Especially, Mrs. Dimitrova, after the completion of the work of the Board of Experts, to find out if all Bulgarian citizens have anything to worry about, because here we have heard that there has been a tragedy, honourable MPs. We have also heard calls to replace the personal documents. Dear MPs from BSP for Bulgaria. However, I would like to inform you that the Ministry of Interior has launched a campaign for the preliminary withdrawal of the time limits of the identity documents that expire. The citizens should have the opportunity to replace them before the relevant deadline expires. This was at the request of all Bulgarian citizens who presented it to the competent authorities. However, let me stress that we have received written information, including we have heard representatives of the Notary Chamber and of the Supreme Lawyers' Council........................ just to understand the negative consequences of abuse of personal data. Somehow you conveniently neglected to say that no representative of these competent institutions that were heard or received written information, and these were also the Chamber of Private Judicial Contractors, and the Association of Rapid Credits, where the most serious risk is. The most serious risk because in banks, transfer to the Notary Chamber, including motor vehicles, of real estate was quite clearly and categorically stated that there would be no illegal transaction after abuse of these leaked personal data. Yes, this topic has become up-to-date in recent years, after the new legislation has emerged at both European and national level for the protection of personal data. But we quickly forgot in the years back, 10 years ago, 15 years ago, how our personal data collected all of whom we were going to provide us with some services. Yes, it was certainly necessary to bring order. Yes, the rules must certainly be followed, and those who abuse them must be punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u107	Thank you, Mr. Tzipov. Line, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u108	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! With some, even with most of the things in the statement, especially in the closing part, of Mr. Tzipov I can agree. But, Mr. Tzipov, you said the system was maintained for the 11 years we've been talking about. Yeah, but the problem isn't that the system's been maintained. Because everyone here, although we are not specialists, we know that this is a system that requires appropriate improvement or upgrade, as they say. Now, in the Commission's Personal Data Protection Report, point 11, people have quite correctly written the following thing that I say: No action has been taken to update Windows operating systems to up-to-date versions of 2013 and 2016. The new Windows systems. That is why I ask: Is this why the Bulgarian taxpayer, his money, his taxes go there to enter into a contract, to maintain a system that does not develop, and is said in the Report? Why wasn't it done and who was responsible? It's very simple! Who's responsible for this? Not to leave two heads of units. And they're gone. Do you know how? Thank you for your work, goodbye, handshake, mutual agreement, notice! So, that's it? So there's a problem in the state, there's been this breakthrough, not a single guilty one, not a single one. Yeah, this is where the polls found out, made recommendations, and eventually there were findings? Something very important in point 10 again in these recommendations, or I would even call them findings from the Commission on personal data, this has happened. This is not done.. these 20 points are not. In point 10 it says: "There is no data for the start of the procedure... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. ...to adapt information systems to the requirements of Regulation of the European Union These people, I'm sorry, but they didn't lift a finger!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u109	Please finish! Thank you. Line, Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Tzipov, at the beginning of your speech you mentioned how important the establishment of this Temporary Committee was. It was at the very least important to reassure the public concern raised by the media, and by some colleagues in the Chamber, I refer rather to the left side of the Chamber, that really Bulgarian citizens with the stolen personal data have cause for concern that property will be transferred to them, that quick loans will be drawn on their behalf and so on, and so on. Thanks, indeed, to the work of the Committee of Experts and the responsible institutions, to the state and non-state institutions, the Association of Rapid Credit Companies, also the notaries, the private judicial contractors, gave this comfort to the Bulgarian citizens not to continue the panic that really with their personal data and with this part, which has been stolen, I stress, can be abused economically with them. But you mentioned here and an important nuance for the work of this firm, unfortunately, which carried out this attack, because we have procedural actions, I will not go into much detail. Since you said she did this number for state institutions, you neglected to say she did it against private companies. While this attack on the state can be described as terrorism against those private companies that have had a breakthrough and hacking attacks against systems, databases, emails, to me is a pure form of racketeering and extortion, which in our modern, democratic society cannot and will not be tolerated. It was also an important nuance which became clear from the work of the Commission, it became clear to society and to Bulgarian citizens that such a thing the state, the institutions would not tolerate. Such a model of business in quotes will never be tolerated again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u111	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Third line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u112	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Tzipov, I would agree with your part of the statement that responsibility should be taken, and you claim that there is one that is taken with the resignations of two working in the NRA. I would also agree with your finding that this is an element of national security. Here comes my question to you: is there a body to the Council of Ministers called the Security Council? Is there a chairman on this council? Isn't the President the Prime Minister? What has this advice taken, and what has he foreseen as measures to prevent this crisis from happening? After this crisis took place, what measures did this council propose? Who will propose and take responsibility of the President and the Council for his work? Mr. Tzipov, after all, you, as chairman of this temporary committee, should ask this council what it does, and you were part of the Council of Ministers, or rather Deputy Minister of Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u113	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. You have the floor for the back, Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u114	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Chenchev, you focused on the findings and recommendations of the Commission for Personal Data Protection. I would like to tell you that there are much more serious findings and recommendations, for example, in the information provided by the State Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u115	Isn't that an element of national security?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u116	No, much more concerned about both lack of sufficient funds and lack of sufficient training and lack of qualified personnel and lack of sufficient funds for the remuneration of these specialist personnel. Only you're taking on a few specific recommendations. Okay, they are important without a doubt, but these recommendations are laid down in the criminal decree sanctioning the National Revenue Agency by the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data, and there is a case under way. [[Heckling]] Case, case, fine imposed, Professor Gechev, out of 5 million. lv. It's sanctioned. You never understood what I was saying. We may want to realise the relevant criminal liability when, in an indisputable manner, both within criminal proceedings and within administrative proceedings, the guilty persons are identified. Personal responsibility for the eligibility of this cyber incident is borne by the two directly responsible for the security of the informational arrays of the National Revenue Agency employees who have left. Again I am telling you, during this criminal proceedings, criminal liability may also be exercised to other persons, including officials. The fact that indictees are currently indicted and the pre-trial criminal proceedings continue does not mean that it cannot be sought by others as well. Mr. Kirilov, the Security Council is dealing with quite other things. There's another Council under the Cyber Security Act. [[speaking indistinctly]] The Cyber Security Council and he would deal with these cyber-accidents. He would make recommendations for improving the picture that is in the state administration. But once again, this picture really needs to be improved. Dear Members of Parliament, let us still hear the representatives of the National Revenue Agency to see if they really have taken the necessary measures and actions after this incident, precisely in the direction of increasing security.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u117	Thank you. In the manner of conduct you have the floor, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u118	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I use this procedure, which is really in the way of keeping it from being given sometimes, I wouldn't say misinformation, but diverting information. The five million you're talking about, Mr. Tzipov and Mr. Chairman, is from the left in the right pocket. The Bulgarian state will fine more than five million... Who's gonna pay for it? The Bulgarian state! You shouldn't have used that example at all! Instead of the responsible persons to pay, which I say, out of their pocket, according to the laws of Bulgaria, you offer and the government increases their salaries.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u119	Thank you. Mr. Gechev, make a remark to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u120	Be punctual! They don't pay anything. Their salaries are rising and the state is paying.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u121	I see. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Dear Mrs. Dimitrova, there was a question for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u122	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will present to you information about what specific measures we have taken after the end of the Commission for the Promotion of Information Security of the Databases and of the Information Systems of the National Revenue Agency. We have launched a process to configure the applied protection environment with a view to identifying and blocking any attempts to exploit vulnerability in the public applications of our Agency based on open source software; we have implemented an additional protective layer on the public website of the NRA by configuring it in a way that allows the use of an anti-DDoS cloud player provider. Only public information available on the NRA's website passes through this channel, as at the moment the attacks of the type of services are continuing to fail to comply with our public AT resources. We have conducted constant surveillance and we are currently constantly monitoring applications and system logs; we are implementing systems and processes for centralized monitoring of registered user activities to improve the level of information security. We have implemented continuous 24-hour monitoring seven days a week of critical systems in order to quickly and promptly identify potential problems and restore their performance. We also reconfigured the links between data storage devices, as a result of which increased the transmission capacity, the reliability of the network and the performance of the systems. We created users with administrative rights in the active directory of the NRA to monitor attempts to access and attack; the process of recording actions, tracking and notification in real time when attempting to use them is also activated. We have reconfigured the server links of databases and applications, which has led to an increase in the speed and efficiency of information systems. In this way, in addition to increasing productivity, we have also achieved ensuring the sustainability of relationships through their duplication. We installed the latest version of Microsoft Windows server 2019 operating system with all necessary protections. To some of the critical information systems for administration, such as the e-service portal, we have made an update of the applied environment with a higher version, which significantly limits the attack surface against the basic components of the systems and therefore increases the level of information security. Information systems are updated at the highest possible levels to ensure the performance of systems and applications. We have developed a plan to update the version of the cryptographic protocols that provide security of communication. Due to the availability of a large number of services, more than 130, which we offer to our customers, we have organized an information campaign to inform them what they should do to be able to use the services after the update of the version of the cryptographic protocols. As of 17 February this year, all electronic services and servers of the NRA are accessed through a cryptographic transport protocol, version 1.2, with which the National Revenue Agency became the first public administration to fully meet the requirement of the Ordinance on the Minimum Requirements for Network Information Security. We periodically perform a scan of technical vulnerability to all public AT resources of the Agency. We have realized the possibility of two-factor identification of database administrators after identification with username and password, and classified electronic signature. On 18 December last year, we signed a contract with the Ministry of Information and Communications for the construction and management of refuse-resistant, reserved, manufactured, protected and documented information and communication infrastructure of the NRA. The main purpose of the contract is to build and manage information and communication infrastructure that meets the requirements of international standards and best global practices. This includes: ensuring a maximum level of information security by integrating new generation firewalls; setting up a new production and reserved central processing unit for processing information; integrating firewalls for web applications for protection against modern attacks; setting up a new denial-resistant, reserved and productive environment for storage of information and data; integrating new specialised devices for reservation and recovery of information; installing information security solutions for dealing with existing and newly discovered cyber attacks to integrate with all components of our information infrastructure; installing and configuring software solutions for monitoring, management and testing the information and communication infrastructure of the NAP. This contract has a deadline for implementation 12 months after its signature, and we expect it to be completed by the end of this year. However, it is only the first phase of our overall Project for Modernization of Information Systems. Phase two and three ahead. The second phase mainly covers the construction of information and communication infrastructure of our territorial structures, and the third phase covers setup, management, exploitation of existing and supplied new resources in the information and communication structure in all structural units of the NRA. The realization of these phases of our overall project to build a new NRA AT infrastructure will not only allow the implementation of policies guaranteeing a high level of network and information security, but will also increase the efficiency of the processes and the secure functioning of our systems. With regard to the international exchange of information. In August last year, we had a check by representatives of the global forum at the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, during which the inspection team formulated recommendations for implementation as a condition for successful passage to the next stage of the inspection. Much of the recommendations have already been implemented. We are currently working hard to implement all the other recommendations so that automatic information exchange can be released by the end of the year at the latest, after the next stage of the Global Forum inspection. In the period 14 January this year we organized technical assistance from experts at the Global Forum who visited the NRA and made a preliminary assessment of the state of our information security. The results of the meeting can be defined as positive, as the representatives of the Global Forum have noted our significant progress, as well as the fact that the measures we have taken in the short and medium term are appropriate and correct and significantly reduce the likelihood of other incidents. By the end of March, we will present to the Member States of the European Union, issues of self-assessment and a new security certificate, with the assurance of the Member States that automatic exchange of information within the European Union can be rebooted once they are received. On 31 January this year, we requested the Secretariat of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development to open the communication channel for automatic exchange of information with jurisdictions outside the European Union. We expect this channel to be reactivated soon to send the already prepared financial account data for 2018. With regard to the Commission's criminal order on the protection of personal data. You know that we have filed a complaint with the court against the criminal decree, as we consider it unlawful and irregular. Our motives are as follows. There is no doubt that unauthorized access to the information systems of the Agency and the subsequent unlawful dissemination of personal data are the result of malicious acts declared a crime under the Criminal Code of the Republic of Bulgaria. We believe that the National Revenue Agency as the object of this malicious offence should not be responsible for the harmful consequences that have occurred, moreover, that no acts of the National Revenue Agency as a personal data controller have been detected since the Commission's verification, as well as of employees of the National Revenue Agency responsible for the protection of those data, to justify that infringement. And this is precisely because access is caused by criminal action, without regard to the security measures taken and despite them. Neither the fact of infringement nor the Commission's criminal order for the protection of personal data describes exactly what the technical vulnerability of the NRA's information systems is and how this technical vulnerability has facilitated the making of unauthorized access under causal conditions. These are the main reasons why we believe that the criminal decree does not comply with fundamental legal requirements, since it does not establish in an undisputed manner a breach committed by the NRA does not contain sufficiently specific descriptions of the circumstances under which the infringement was committed and the legal provisions which are alleged to have been infringed.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Dimitrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u124	Even with the implementation of the Commission's recommendations relating to the improvement of rules and procedures, the NRA, as well as any other entity in the electronic world, is not insured by the risk of malicious entities committing crimes that cause harm not only to the controller of personal data but also to any affected citizen. Finally, I just want to clarify some of the information that was presented here, as it is not accurate. First, with regard to the service contract, which was mentioned by the 40 million. lv. This is not a contract to which a country is only an NRA. It is a contract that covers information services to all agencies in the Ministry of Finance, including the Ministry of Finance itself, and the value allocated as a cost to the NRA is 860 thousand. I regret that the additional information that we presented for the qualification of colleagues who work in It would also have made it clear that a colleague whose military specialty is a sturman-director...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u125	Mrs. Dimitrova, I apologize, but this has already been the subject of a debate in plenary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u126	...in fact, I would like to stress it because many times this information is commented on, has a civic education with the electrician and has a specialty of design and development of electronic systems. The colleague, who has a secondary education, has graduated from higher economic education, has graduated from the Stopan economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u127	Thank you. You have the floor, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u128	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My procedure is the way I conduct myself. Dear Mr. Chairman, I respect you not only because of the position you have taken at the moment, but once again. 3 years already in this National Assembly, and you and the President-in-Office of the National Assembly Mrs. Karayancheva have a vicious habit to declare an end to the debates. Now that questions have arisen after Mrs. Dimitrova's speech, how can we ask them?................................................................................................ since many questions have emerged? We have now learned that by the end of the year the NRA is in absolute European isolation because the information has been stopped. Now we understand the confession, dear Mr. Chairman! What are you gonna do about it? Well, find the debate. Here's your confession. Something else. Dear Mrs. Dimitrova, is it true that there is no liability clause in the contracts with subcontractors anywhere? These privates are taking some money and no responsibility! And you know what's scarier is that you come in here, you're lipsticking from this tribune, you're covering up or you're not covering something up, but you're standing here, and some people collect money as subcontractors, without any responsibility, it's not in the contracts. So how long are we gonna keep going?? Mr. Chairman, please, when there are debates, when we are going to listen to a party on them, invite the country first, or let us hear it in the middle of the debate, and then let them continue. Now Members of the National Assembly cannot ask themselves the questions that excite us, but the citizens, because with their taxes these things are paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u129	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chenchev, you know that all of us who are holding a meeting are sticking to the Rules and to the established parliamentary practice, and that is what it is at the moment. He will not answer the question of whether you can ask questions that have now arisen in you from facts that you have just learned. If you're involved in the debate and now you're discovering some things, I think it's better not to comment on it. Of course, this question can be put before another body of the National Assembly.. You understand exactly what I mean. We will proceed with the vote. I'll remind you again: Project! DECISION on the Activity Report of the Temporary Committee of inquiry to clarify all the facts and circumstances surrounding the case of the draining of information from the electronic database of the National Revenue Agency The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Adopts the Report on the activities of the Temporary Committee of inquiry to clarify all the facts and circumstances surrounding the case of the draining of information from the electronic database of the National Revenue Agency; Vote 155 MPs: 94, against 52, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Negative vote, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u130	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted against the conclusions that have been drawn in the report that has been proposed to us by this interim committee of inquiry, because I believe that there are... [[a group of Members of the National Assembly shall leave the Chamber.]] Mr. Chairman, if you could call for a moment of silence and have your colleagues sit down. I don't know if anyone's listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u131	Colleagues, the negative vote is part of democracy and the working procedure of the National Assembly. Please express the same respect as any statement by a Member of the National Assembly. Please take your seats or leave the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u132	I don't know if they're listening to any of the members of the National Revenue Agency. I can see that they're already leaving the House. Obviously, what we are going to say in this negative vote is not interesting, but the conclusions in this report are incomplete. We didn't hear from the director of the NRA here what really happened after we had this accident last year. The National Revenue Agency has made serious changes in the system. We have heard this, but we have not heard how much these changes of the Bulgarian business cost. Did you know that since the beginning of this week all users of older operating systems, older Internet browsers have been forced to change them so that they can meet the new NSA security requirements? No one said what this cost the Bulgarian business! No one said what was the analysis of the changes made, what they led to as expenses and benefits for the Bulgarian business! And something else. The report lacks one very important information on whether those problems in the NRA information system have already been addressed, which ensure the recording of the relevant access made by individual operators and is made in individual systems. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u133	Finish your thought, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u134	I'm graduating, Mr. Chairman. It became clear that no one could tell who or where he actually accessed the information systems and drained them because there were no logs...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u135	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u136	... as it is said in the technical language of the activities carried out by the operators concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u137	Thank you. Colleagues, 30 minutes off duty. We start at 12:30. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u138	Colleagues, we continue with the second item of today's agenda: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN FOR THE TRANSFER OF LOCAL PERSONS. Ms. Alexandrova will introduce us to the Committee on Legal Affairs Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u139	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Kazakhstan on the transfer of convicted persons, No 002-02-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 January 2020. At its meeting held on 12 February 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law on the ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Kazakhstan on the transfer of convicted persons, No 002-02-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 January 2020. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Justice Mr. Danail Kirilov, Minister, and Mr. Milen Georgiev, Chief Expert at the Department of International Legal Cooperation and European Affairs. The bill was presented by Mr. Georgiev, who pointed out that on 13 May 2019 between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Kazakhstan was signed a Treaty on the Transfer of Condemned Persons, aimed at improving the social rehabilitation and re-socialization of the condemned citizens in the other country. After ratification of the Treaty, Bulgarian citizens sentenced by a sentence in force in the Republic of Kazakhstan will be given the opportunity to endure their sentences in the Republic of Bulgaria. From this opportunity can be enjoyed respectively citizens of Kazakhstan, suffering prison sentence in the Republic of Bulgaria. He added that the Treaty complies with the requirements of domestic legislation and international standards in the area of transfer of convicted persons and governs the general principles of transfer of convicted persons, central authorities, transfer conditions and procedures, refusal of transfer, amnesty, pardon and its action. Mr. Georgiev explained that with the entry into force of the Treaty, legal cooperation in the field of international cooperation in criminal matters will be increased, along with the treaties already in force between the two countries on legal aid in criminal matters and the extradition treaty. As a result of the vote held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 17 votes for abstention and abstention proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Law on the ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Kazakhstan on the transfer of convicted persons, No 002-02-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 January 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u140	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. No speeches, we're going to vote. I put to the first vote a bill for ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Kazakhstan for the transfer of convicted persons, No 002-02-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 January 2020. Vote 95 MPs: for 94, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u141	Procedure, Madam President. I am making a procedural proposal on the grounds of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly Draft for ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Kazakhstan for the transfer of convicted persons, No 002-02-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 January 2020, to be voted at second reading in today's sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u142	Please vote on Mrs. Alexandrova's procedure. They voted 102 MPs: 99, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u143	Thank you, Madam President. THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Kazakhstan on the transfer of convicted persons A single member. Ratifying the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Kazakhstan for the transfer of convicted persons, signed on 13 May 2019 in Sofia.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u144	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the name of the Law and the article alone. They voted 102 MPs: for 101, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the last item of today's agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO PREVITATE A COMPANY OF A COMPANY OF THE EYES OF THE BULGARIAN MARITIME CENTRE. The Economic Policy and Tourism Committee report will introduce us to Mr. Kanev, President of the Commission. Here you go, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u145	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, hall pass. Please, on the basis of art. 49 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to invite the Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and Albena Lazarova Director of the Directorate of Concenses.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u146	Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 98 MPs: 97, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u147	Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe under the Project for a decision for privatization of a separate part of the property of the Bulgarian Sea Transport Center JSC Varna, No 002-03-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 February 2020. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting, held on 19 February 2020, discussed and discussed the draft decision for the privatisation of a separate part of the property of the Bulgarian Sea Transport Center. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications: Veliko Zanchev The bill was presented by Veliko Zanchev. The Agency for Public Enterprises and Control has expressed a written opinion that the motor ship Atanas Dimitrovs holds the characteristics of a separate part and in accordance with art. 3, para. 3, p. 1 of the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control The National Assembly decides to privatize parts of sites included in the so-called "prohibited list" for privatization. Motorship "Atanas Dimitrov" was manufactured in 1969 at the shipbuilding plant in Burgas. It's a passenger ship with a metal hull. Since 2008 The Bulgarian maritime demand centre is the owner of the ship by virtue of an aport contribution to the capital of the company by the then shareholder Paramodition of the Bulgarian sea fleet and is an asset with a value of 49 762 BGN. The ship was used for tourist coastal voyages, but since 2014 it has not been used and does not fit into the company's business. The accounting revenue for the period from the acquisition of the vessel until 31 December 2019 amounts to 132 thousand. lv. They are formed by the hourly surrender of the ship for events on board. The cost of maintenance, operation, wages, depreciation and other costs reported is 887 thousand. lv. The total reported losses amount to 755 thousand. lv. As of 31 December 2019 the accounting residual value of the asset is zero leva. The use of life on a motor ship "Atanas Dimitrov" is 50 years and to date it is exhausted. The last class repairs of the ship were made in April 2010. After that date, the ship did not leave the dry dock. At present, the ship is not in service, all documents and certificates expired in 2015. The ship is located on a non-working pier in non-operation mode and with one person guard. Risks that make the ship relatively dangerous: - Nearly a ton of fuel at the bottom of the tank, which is inelevable; - Environmental risk may occur in a collision with another craft in which a spill occurs; - There is also a risk of fire; - Possible risk of theft of property or supplies from the ship; - Additional financial expenditure covering the stay of the ship as well as possible financial risk in the event of adverse accidents. For a motor ship, Atanas Dimitrov has no assessment of its sale. The decision of the sole owner of the company's capital since 2015 is to sell the ship through the Privatisation and Post-Privatization Control Agency, now the Public Enterprises Agency and Control Agency. In the subsequent discussion, the MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria asked questions about the presence of other ships in the training centre and the disposal of funds from the privatisation of the ship. The questions asked were answered by Deputy Minister Zanchev. After the end of the discussion and vote with results: the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee adopted the following opinion: Asks the National Assembly not to accept the draft decision on the privatisation of a separate part of the property of the Bulgarian Sea Transport Center. No 002-03-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 February 2020
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u148	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. The Report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications will introduce us to Mr. Hristov. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u149	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on Draft Decision on Privatization of a separate part of the property of the Bulgarian Sea Transport Center JSC Varna, No 002-03-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers 7 February 2020 At its meeting held on 19 February 2020, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications examined a draft decision on the privatisation of a separate part of the property of the Bulgarian Maritime Training Centre (SOC) "Varna," No 002-03-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 February 2020. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Andreana Atanasova, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The reasons for the draft decision are stated that the Bulgarian maritime training centre "Varna" is a commercial company, included in the list. 3, para. 1 of the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. The company's capital is included as a separate part of the motor ship "Atanas Dimitrov" with the Pegistration No 150420 of the Bulgarian Ship Register, entered in the register of ships in the port of Varna. The reasons presented in more detail were identical to those read in the previous report. During the discussion spoke the MPs Georgi Svilenski, Pavel Hristov, Ivan Ivanov and Nikolay Tishev. As a result of the vote, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, with 10 votes, for abstentions and 10 votes, proposed that the National Assembly not adopt a draft decision to privatize a part of the property of the Bulgarian Maritime Training Centre.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u150	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. I'm opening the debate. Mr. Ermenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u151	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Once again, we are witnessing a sale of state property on the Forbidden List, without any clarity where the money from this privatisation will go. I have set myself up for a task and will monitor every time there is privatisation of such companies or their separate parts, to remind you that there is a State Fund to ensure the sustainability of the state pension system and that, in principle, the money from the privatisation of such enterprises must be entered there. From the proposed decision you are giving us to vote, it is not clear where the money will go. As far as I know, the Economics Commission has stated that the money will remain in the company. And I think that this is not right, regardless of the amount, whether it is thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands, or millions, the so-called Silver Fund needs to be filled out in order to really guarantee the pension system, all the more so that you, on the way and over the management, say that the pension system is underfunded, we are looking for where to finance it, how to guarantee it and so on. If we keep selling property and the money doesn't go where it's supposed to go and by law, things won't get any better, but they'll only get worse. Therefore, I do not know if you would accept me proposing a new point in the decision you are proposing to us, in which we can explicitly write that the money from this privatisation will enter the State Fund to ensure the sustainability of the state pension system. I hope you'll allow us to vote on this. If you find it unacceptable in this procedure, you decide, that is the issue of your conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u152	We'll vote then, I'll take the vote. - What's the line?! I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Manushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u153	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the floor of speaking on this case to try to convince you of the privatisation of this vessel, as the views of both committees were negative. The facts brought them out and exposed them, Mr. Kanev. The ship is really 50 years old. He ended up in the 2008 Maritime Training Centre after the privatization of the Bulgarian Navy, along with the two ferryes, with the sailing school ship Caliakra and he. For years, the Marine Qualification Centre, although it is not subject to operation and operation of vessels, operated it and you see what the costs and revenues of this operation are. The ship is more than 50 years old, the ships live about 45 years old, so that this ship has lived its life and repeatedly I say that the ship is like the human being born and one day it dies, it cannot serve and live forever. So this ship has come to this position to be written off and taken out. It cannot be used for its intended purpose, there are quite serious restrictions on operation. It is a class up to 5 miles from the coast, up to 20 miles max, up to 90 passengers and you see that the operation, its touch for so many years, it last 2010 has been completed and repaired, cannot be used as a passenger ship. So the wish of the Marine qualifying centre to realize this ship and to make profits in the company, in the company, and they are necessary, as I have told you about its other ships, one of them is given to charter, the ferry, the other stands, also costs the ferry complex, Caliakra and it with great work is maintained, so this is not the subject of activity of this company. And the realization of this ship will result in some financial revenue in the company. I don't know if there's anyone against his privatization because of the ship's name. He bears the name of Atanas Dimitrov, functionary of the Bulgarian Communist Party, MP at 6 national meetings, from Stara Zagora, has nothing to do with the fleet, I don't know why they named the ship that way, but that's not it... It's like the circle of a joke. But I believe that we must satisfy the request of the board of directors of the enterprise, and for where the money will go is a separate issue, there you will probably put it to a vote. That's why I'm inviting you. Why are we voting on it? We vote on it as it is a separate part of the Privatization List and a decision must be taken by the Council of Ministers and the National Assembly. Yesterday was sold the rescue ship Perun, without even understanding and with which the dream of a captain sailing away Nikifor Gerchev for the restoration of the Bulgarian rescue service remained in history. He wrote a sad post on his Facebook about it. Our biggest rescue ship has been sold. But this is a separate matter, you see that the National Assembly does not deal with it. This privatisation will make it the Agency for Public Enterprises and Control, as it is now said, and I believe that the National Assembly, regardless of the opinions of the two committees dealing with this issue, must satisfy the company's request and make a decision to grant permission by the National Assembly to have the ship privatized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u154	Thank you, dear Mr. Manushev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Prodanov. Then Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u155	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Manushev, you mentioned in your speech that it is normal for a ship to be born, that is, created, built, exploited and died. We agree on that. But good asset management and in general of this Bulgarian Maritime Qualification Center requires the following: once we are aware that this asset is depreciated and the time will come when it will no longer be able to be used, to have a vision of how these funds you will receive from the sale will invest them in the development of the company, in the development of the environment, buying a new ship, buying trainers where to train the captains and so on. What's going on in practice? We, here in Parliament, have become some sort of ship-selling market. Last month we sold again, again to the Bulgarian Maritime Qualifications Center. A few months ago, we were selling again. In pieces we sell ships from which the funds serve only and only in my opinion for payment of salaries on the board of directors and on the staff and for nothing else! And if they really have a vision to develop this qualification center, they have to sit down and take account: yes, for example, these three or four ships are old, they have come to the end of the depreciation period, they cannot be used, we can't sell them together, with this money to buy, as I said, trainers and other equipment, to ennoble the environment, to make the qualification center modern, so that it can develop. What's going on here in practice? Sells so the board of directors can get salaries. That's ridiculous. This is one reason why we will not support this proposal. And the other thing that Mr. Tasco Ermenkov and I said before is not normal in parliament to make decisions that are contrary to the laws created by this same parliament, because with the fact that the funds from the privatisation of this ship will take place in the company and not according to the Privatization Act and post-privatization control in the Silver Fund, is a violation of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u156	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. Mr. Chenchev, come in for a line. Finally, Mr. Lazarov for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u157	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr Admiral! Mr. Manushev, I use the form of a line to ask you a supplementary question, because you mentioned in your statement that the ship is also difficult to maintain. And I'm just interested in you to specify which ship exactly is this because I think this is not a small matter for the Bulgarian fleet? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u158	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Lazarov, for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u159	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Manushev, if you could enlighten your colleagues here, because two of these suddenly appeared in your undivided remarks. On one side, you see, the funds on this ship have to go, it would be good to go, in the principle, to buy trainers, to develop the activity, to enrich it, something like that I heard, on the other hand, they're talking about going to the Silver Fund. Which one is it, because you're inside this subject? That's the first one. And the second, I don't know what the proceeds from selling one of these ships would be, how normal it is, whether they were made estimates, but from the reports I heard 800,000. lv. is the maintenance costs of this ship. That's 800 grand. lv. as expenses, if they stay, well, for God's sake, they won't be for the board of directors' salary. Just a little more detail, if you could enlighten us. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u160	Let's finish the dots and you'll tell me what the problem is. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u161	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm not a lawyer at the Naval Qualifications Center, but this is a school, and I'm pretty sure the money's gonna go for it. He, in addition to conducting training courses for Bulgarian captains, mechanics and all specialists related to the sea, also gives them certificates and certify their fitness for what they have studied for. So the money will probably go to the development of the institution of education, not the remuneration of the board of directors. I don't know what their salaries are and I'm not their lawyer. You asked me about the ship Kaliakra. He's a sailing ship. It was owned by the Bulgarian Navy. In 2008 after the privatisation by the government of Sergey Stanishev he... [[GERB's comments: "Aaaaa, privatization? "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u162	What year, I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u163	In 2008, the Bulgarian Navy, you know, was privatized by the government of Sergey Stanishev, these assets were taken out of the composition and handed over to the Maritime Qualification Centre, because they had nowhere to go, not that this is the activity of this centre. And I told you about his difficulty in operating on vessels. This is not the subject of activity of this centre and it makes it really difficult for it. The condition of the sailing ship "Kaliakra" is indeed difficult, as a permanent crew is maintained, and is used periodically and also with attempts to be committed somewhere, to benefit from someone, to make study sailings. But this is not an activity either. My dream was to go to sea school, but there too... I don't know why the Marine School doesn't want it, but someday we'll get to that, like this company... Once again: the task, functions and purpose of this company is to prepare the Bulgarian marine personnel and to certify them. And he's doing it successfully. The school is modern, it is modern, together with the Sea School gives this qualification.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u164	Thank you, dear Mr. Manushev. Any other speeches? Come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u165	Madam President, my request to you is: when colleagues here, from the stand, try to make wrong suggestions, if not to take away their word, at least make a remark to them. I am referring to the following: Mr. Lazarov's statement or remark, which suggests that we first say that the law must be implemented, that is, the money should go to the Silver Fund, and then we said that they would go to the Trade Company for wages. What we said unambiguously was that we were to comply with the law and the money from privatisation, if any, to go to the Silver Fund! But yesterday at a committee unambiguously the Deputy Minister said that the decision of the Council of Ministers and the proposal of the Council of Ministers was the money to go into the budget of the trading company. And then we say that at least when you have decided to break the Law and the money to go there, to use them appropriately and not to distribute wages!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u166	Mr. Prodanov, from the speeches of colleagues I realized that they would go for training, not for giving out to pay. I don't know what you heard, and that's why I didn't make a remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u167	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Madam President, have you seen how you fell into the trap of unclear legislation in the third year? And you didn't know where the money was going! And now I'm starting from the beginning on chronology. I thank Admiral Manushev for taking the position to inform both the Transport Commission and the Economic Policy Committee on what this is about. Only, Mr. Manushev, you say this ship is 50 years old and every ship has life, right? And I ask, did the board of this company on February 7th remember that this ship is turning 50 years old? On 7 February 2020, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No So that on 19 February 2020, this draft decision can be viewed on both committees simultaneously and on 20 February here the MPs will now wonder where the money will go! That's how the National Assembly works! Deputy Minister Zanchev in the Economic Policy Committee says that the money will go to the Qualification Centre. It does not matter whether for salaries, whether for a trainer, for maintenance, it does not matter. At the same time, at the same time, the representative of the Qualification Centre with the other Deputy Minister of the same Ministry in the Transport Commission says the money will go to the Privatization Agency and the Silver Fund. And now the MPs, and you rightly wondered what was going on: where will the money go? The ship will be sold, but where will the money go to the Silver Fund, the Qualification Society or somewhere else? First question. Question two: when did they decide that this ship was useless and that it was useless? If he really isn't fit for anything, as you claim, if he really lived his life, because in our committee it was explained that he couldn't be pulled, neither butane, nor disassembled, nothing, it's just a wreck, neither repaired, nothing! Well, I'm asking: who do you expect to buy this stuff? Who do you expect to come and give money to the Qualification Center to buy nothing that has a guard and a few tons of fuel that could run out at any moment and cause an environmental disaster? It was the motive that if the ship continued to stand there, there would be an environmental disaster. But at the same time, it is said that for this ship nothing can be done but stand there. And I ask: who is he that privatizes this ship? However, there is no one to answer these questions!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u168	To make expenses.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u169	There you go. Okay. Then you're gonna make a line and you're gonna answer. Honourable Members, let us take this a little more seriously, because we will really become a ship sales agency if the National Assembly does not act a little more responsible and when such projects are submitted for a decision, it is clear what it is about, what the costs are, what the revenues are, why it is necessary, where the money will go and what it will be about. Because if it's going to be scrapped, Admiral Manushev, I think it might be possible for the Qualification Center to turn it in for scrap, don't you? Or can't? [[Reply of the National Representative Plamen Manushev.]] Okay, you'll say. He needs someone to pick him up to sell him out. There's gotta be a middleman, right? That's the point. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u170	That's not the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u171	And that's not the point! Okay. So, here, the target is unclear. However, that is exactly what we think is the goal of someone coming to buy it for $30,000. lv. and sell it for three hundred to scrap, which, I think, can be done by the state without having any worries. Madam President, because I see that you are also in the dark of where the money will go, once again, I call on you and your parliamentary group not to support the draft decision or, if necessary, to return it for an addition, where to record where the money will go, what will be used for, the two deputy transport ministers to gather and understand what they are protecting in the committees. Because it is unacceptable for two deputy ministers from the same ministry at the same time to mislead two committees. And the deception of the MPs, honourable Members, is the deception of the Bulgarian people, only that the Bulgarian people cannot live in delusion for 10 years! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u172	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. - What's the line? Here's a line for you, Mr. Manushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u173	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Svilensky asked a lot of questions. I don't know who will appear to buy the ship, but even if it doesn't work, the ship can really be bought for scrap. And to sell it for scrap metal, this agency will appreciate it. There's a methodology for assessing each ship. Even at the bottom of the sea is still valued and sold as scrap. It will be sold for the value at which the metal is valued inside or for the non-ferrous metals it has. And if anyone will take it and recover it, and that's possible, but they'll put some money in it. Because in Varna, there are willing to perform a sabotaged passenger-travel voyage. Someone might buy it, I don't know who, I'm not in! How much will it cost? He'll be appreciated. For 250 thousand, we sold Perun, which is 5 times the size of this one. I don't know how much Atanas Dimitrov will cost, but the solution is correct. You say, "Why now?" There are times when you can't wait any longer. If it goes down, it's gonna take a lot more than that to get it out of there! When it sinks into the aquatory, it becomes an object that interferes with the rescue operation to be removed, it will cost five times its value. The management of this center must have seen that he was guarded by one man and became dangerous not to sink there or to set himself on fire and proposed. By the way, that's exactly what we do: we obey the law! If this ship, this property wasn't on the Forbidden List as a separate part, it would have been sold by the Naval Qualifications Center and we wouldn't even know they sold it. As happened with Perun, I told you this as an example. There sold it Port infrastructure as it was in its assets. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u174	Thank you, dear Mr. Manushev. Second line? I don't see a second line. Mr. Svilensky, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u175	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Manushev, thank you for making the line. So the ship is sinking or it could sink at any moment, right, you said so it could sink at any moment? And we've reached the deputy ministers and the board of this company by February 7th not to know that the ship is sinking!? Mr. Manushev, if this is how we run the Qualification Center, if this is how the Ministry of Transport is managed, the state will sink and you will not understand if it is! And one day you will come in the morning and say: Dear colleagues, the state is sinking tomorrow, let us privatize it! That's not a serious attitude. That is why I say again my proposal I see that Mr. Zanchev is in the hall, to come to the stand, to make a commitment and to propose that he, as the principal of the Society, the money provided by the privatisation of this ship, remain in the Silver Fund, as is by law and the law in this country says this thing. Then to see these assessments and how much money. Because you first said it was useless, and then you said it could be repaired, depending on the buyer, but it depends on the ship. Does anyone know what this ship is up to? Have you been reported to the Commission about what this ship is up to? No, we're selling ship Atanas Dimitrov! Or because he's a member of the BCP, let's sell him! [[Radio.]] Not like that!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-20.u176	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Of course, Mr. Zanchev cannot make such a commitment, but I will put to the vote in this House Mr. Ermenkov's proposal. [[turns to MPs from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You will have the opportunity to express your will. Any other speeches? I can't see. Colleagues, I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. First, I will put to the vote the proposal of the MP Tasco Ermenkov the funds from the sale of the ship to go to the State Fund to ensure the sustainability of the state pension system called the Silver Fund. They voted 135 MPs: 61, Against 5 abstentions 69. The offer is not accepted. Dear colleagues, I am voting on a draft decision to privatize a part of the property of the Bulgarian maritime training centre.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Cancel the vote. Colleagues, I again put to the vote a draft decision to privatize a separate part of the property of the Bulgarian maritime training centre................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 140 MPs voted: 88, against 33, abstention 19. The motion is accepted. Parliamentary control announcements on Friday 21 February 2020: The first will be the Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov. He will answer one question from the MP Jayhan Ibryamov. Second is the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev. He will answer nine questions from the MPs: Teodora Halacheva; Georgi Mihaylov [[two questions]] ; Valentina Naydenova [[two questions]] ; Kolyo Milev; Lubomir Bonev; Spas Panchev; and Georgi Gokov, Filip Popov, Anastas Popdimitrov, Vasil Antonov, Vesela Lecheva, Krum Zarkov and Stoyan Mirchev and one question from the National Representative Dora Yankova. Third is the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov. He will answer a question from the MP Pavel Shopov. The fourth is Interior Minister Mladen Marinov. He will answer two questions from the MPs Jayhan Ibryamov and Tanya Petrova. Fifth is responsible for the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova. She will answer two questions from the MPs Nikolai Ivanov; and Valentina Naydenova and Milko Nedyalkov. Sixth responds Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova. She will answer five questions from the MPs Dora Yankova; Evdokia Asenova; Smilyana Niva-Krusteva [[two questions]] ; and Nikolai Boshkov. 7th is responsible for the Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov. He will answer five questions from the MPs Nikolai Ivanov; Stefan Burgev; Kolyo Milev; Nikolay Tishev; Manol Genov; and Daniela Dimitrova. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Procedure adjourned replies by seven days have requested: - the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to two questions from the MPs Rumen Gechev; Georgi Gokov, Filip Popov, Anastas Popdimitrov, Vasil Antonov, Krum Zarkov and Stoyan Mirchev; and to two questions written by the MPs Georgi Svilenski; and Alexander Simov and Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov to two questions with written answer from the MPs Georgi Svilenski; and Georgi Svilenski and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; - the Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev to two questions from the MPs Vesela Lecheva and Dora Yankova; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva to two questions from the MPs Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and Violeta Jeleva; - the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to a question by the MPs Manol Genov, Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Desislava Taneva to a question written by the National Representative Stefan Burgeev; - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov to a question with a written answer from the MP Slavcho Atanasov. For lack of respectable reasons, Members of the National Assembly shall postpone the responses to: - a question from the MP Christian Vigenin to the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva; - one question from the National Representative Christian Vigenin to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev; - a question from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Alexander Simov to the Minister of Justice Danail Kirilov; - a question from the MP Ivan Valentinov Ivanov to the Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov; - a question from the National Representative Manol Genov to the Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov. Due to the use of annual leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov and the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Dessislava Taneva will not participate. Colleagues, this was today's work on the so-called programme. I'm adjourned today's session. Tomorrow, February 21, 2020 "On a regular basis, from 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
