ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, the first point of the day is: SELECTION OF A RESPONSIBILITY PRINCIPLE AND TWO COMMISSION MEMBERS TO REGULATE MESSAGES FROM THE QUOTA OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. The selection procedure is in accordance with the Rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 12 December 2019. I'll introduce you to the rules of choice: The election of Vice-President and two members of the Communications Regulation Commission from the quota of the National Assembly. 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The National Assembly shall hear the report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. 3. Discussions shall be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 4. The National Assembly shall elect separately the Vice-President and the two members of the Communications Regulation Commission. 5. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system. If there are several candidates for one position, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the applicant's own names, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 6. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates for one position have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who has received the highest number of votes for the House shall be elected. 7. Where none of the candidates for the position concerned receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall take place, in which the two candidates who received the most votes for the position concerned shall take part. 8. If none of the candidates for the respective position receive the necessary votes in the second vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. 9. When one of the candidates for the respective position refuses to participate in the election before voting on his candidacy by the National Assembly and he is the only candidate for the position, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new procedure for the election of that position. 10. If there is no candidate for any of the posts, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure for this position. Colleagues, I give the floor to the President of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications to brief us on the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u2	Thank you, Madam President. If I may, first of all, a procedure for the admission of the five candidates to the Chamber.... Mrs. Kristina Georgieva Andonova-Hitrova, Ms. Anna Hadjieva, Mrs. Denitsa Zlateva, Mr. Erdinch Hajrula and Mr. Penyo Penev. Please allow them into the courtroom.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u3	Please, a voting regime for the so-called admission procedure for applicants. Vote 196 MPs: 191, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please invite the candidates to the Chamber. Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u4	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe on the hearing of candidates for Vice-President and two members of the Communications Regulation Commission from the quota of the National Assembly At its meeting on 5 February 2020, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications heard candidates for Vice-President and two members of the Communications Regulation Commission (CRC) from the National Assembly quota. The meeting was attended by Mr. Dimitar Dimitrov, Acting Director of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, representatives of non-governmental organizations in the field of electronic communications and trade unions. The hearing was held in accordance with Section IV of the Rules of Procedure adopted by the National Assembly on 12 December 2019 on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for Vice-President and two members of the Communications Regulation Commission from the National Assembly quota, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. The President of the Commission Mr. Halil Letifov announced that the following proposals have been received: 1. Candidate for Vice-President of the Communications Regulation Commission Mrs. Kristina Georgieva Andonova-Hitrova, proposed by the political party GERB parliamentary group; 2. Candidates for CRC members: a) Ms. Anna Valcheva Hadzhieva, proposed by the MPs Vejdi Rashidov, Evgeni Budinov, Iskren Veselinov, Valeri Simeonov, Menda Stoyanova, Gergana Stefanova, Dimitar Lazarov, Slavi Netzov, Boryana Georgieva and Elena Pesheva; b) Mrs. Denitsa Zlatkova Zlateva, proposed by the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Parliamentary Group of BSP. (c) Mr Erdinch Ismail Hajrula, proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. d) Mr. Penyo Atanasov Penev, proposed by the MPs Valeri Simeonov and Iskren Veselinov. All required documents under the Law on Electronic Communications and the adopted procedural rules are attached to the proposals published on the specialized thematic site of the National Assembly's website. In accordance with Section III of the Rules of Procedure, an inspection has been carried out and no documents establishing belonging to the bodies under art. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. Mr. Letifov announced that the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications did not address any questions to candidates by non-profit legal entities, professional organisations or the media. There was a letter from the Bulgarian Association of Cable Communication Operators in support of Ms. Kristina Hitchova's application for Vice-President of the Communications Regulation Commission. National Representative Atanas Tashkov presented Kristina Andonova-Hitrova's candidacy for Vice-President of the Communications Regulation Commission. Mrs. Hitrova has more than 21 years of professional experience in the state administration. He began his professional development in 1998 as an expert at the Ministry of Industry, later transformed into the Ministry of Economy. In 2009, she entered the administration of the Council of Ministers, the Directorate for Coordination on EU issues and international financial institutions. In 2017, he held the post of Secretary of State in the Public Procurement Agency by carrying out the administrative management of the Agency for the implementation of regulatory and sub-regulation acts, internal rules and orders, as well as organising the tasks between administrative units. From 2018 until now Mrs. Hhirova is the head secretary of CRC. Mr. Tashkov pointed out that Mrs. Hitrova makes a significant contribution to improving the interaction with stakeholders in order to make public and transparent the activities of the regulator and actively participate in the international activities of the Communications Regulation Commission. The hearing of candidates for two members of the CRC was held in alphabetical order on their own names. People's representative Evgeni Budinov presented Anna Hadjieva's candidacy. Ms. Hadjieva's professional development is related to the creation and regulation of media content. In the period 2002 - 2004 as a member of the Council for Electronic Media participated in the development of a Strategy for Media Environment Development, actively assisted in mediation to develop an alarm for the protection of children from harmful content, together with the Communications Regulation Commission working on the problems of cross-border radio pollution. As a member of the CEM in the period 2009 - 2016 is an active participant... [[(Noise, a replica from the BSP for ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u5	Colleagues, it's very noisy in this room, and that's why you can't hear either.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u6	..and in the platform of European regulatory authorities, which supports the work of national regulators in the new convergence media environment. The topics directly related to Anna Hadjieva's activities in the CEM are to create transparent, sustainable and predictable rules for radio competitions; bringing radio operators' licenses into line with the programmes and property actually broadcast. National Representative Georgi Svilenski presented Denitsa Zlateva's candidacy. Mrs. Zlateva has over 24 years of professional experience in corporate governance, coordination of European issues and policies, management of European projects, international cooperation. She worked as a collaborator of the Head of the Bulgarian Socialist Delegation in the European Parliament. At the Forty-second National Assembly is President of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of EU Funds and a member of the Foreign Policy Committee. In 2017, he took over the post of Deputy Prime Minister responsible for preparing the first Bulgarian European Presidency of the Council of the European Union and worked closely with the services of the European Council, the European Commission, the European Parliament and the Permanent Representation of the Republic of Bulgaria in Brussels. Mr. Svilenski pointed out that in the years Denitsa Zlateva has acquired serious internal and international authority, she is familiar with the processes of preparation and coordination of European legislation, defending and protecting the national position in its adoption, as well as has solid experience in bilateral and multilateral cooperation. National Representative Halil Letifov presented Erdinch Hajrula's candidacy. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u7	Guys, it's too loud. Please! Mr. Letifov, and you closer to the microphones.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u8	Yeah. Mr. Hayrola is an engineer in automatics, computer techniques and technology. He has extensive administrative and management experience. He was Chairman of the Commission on Privatization, Post-Privatization Control, Transport, Energy and Communications at the Municipal Council of Momchilgrad, as well as Mayor of Momchilgrad Municipality. Mr. Hajrula was Vice-President of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications at the Forty-second National Assembly and MP at the Forty-third National Assembly. Erdinch Hajrula has long experience in telecommunications, worked in the system of BTC and other related companies. People's representative Boris Yachev presented Penyo Penev's candidacy. Mr. Penev is a Master's degree in Law. His professional experience began 18 years ago as a legal consultant in the Kremikovtsi JSC, where he carried out a procedural representation of the company. His work route in the state administration begins in the Road Infrastructure Agency, passes through the Ministry of Justice and the Executive Agency Military Clubs and Military Holidays. At present Mr. Penev is working as a chief legal consultant at the CRC's Directorate of Legal Affairs, and his work is related to the regulation of the postal sector and mobile enterprises. Following their presentation, applicants were given the opportunity to supplement their professional biography data and to express their motivation for taking up the respective position. On behalf of the members of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications Mr. Letifov asked all candidates about their vision for the work of the Communications Regulation Commission in the formation of the policy in the field of postal services and electronic communications and what should be the role of the regulator in implementing the networks of the fifth generation. After the hearing was concluded, Mr. Letifov said that a report will be prepared to which a list of candidates for Vice-President and two members of the Communications Regulation Commission and draft decisions for the choice of each candidate involved in the hearing will be attached. Proposal 1 - List of candidates for Vice-President and two members of the Communications Regulation Commission. I. Candidate for Vice-President of the Communications Regulation Commission II. Candidates for two members of the Communications Regulation Commission by alphabetical order of their own names: 1. Anna Valcheva Hadjieva; 2. Denitsa Zlatkova Zlateva; 3. Erdinch Ismail Hajrula; 4. Penyo Atanasov Penev. Five decisions have been applied for election by the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u9	Thank you. The decisions will be read when we vote, Mr. Letifov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I hope that all the parliamentary groups will speak today and say who they will support, because it is important to know who will vote for whom. It is important to understand the political party GERB which candidates will support the DPS candidate, or will it support the candidate of the United Patriarchs? It is important to understand the political party Volya and their parliamentary group, which is named Volya, who will vote for the candidate of the DPS or for the other candidates? We think we're going to see a backstage today. In this backstage, we will not participate in this, we will not be held responsible for other people's mistakes and other people's decisions. We will not be responsible for the management, provided that there are arrangements for the candidate of the DPS to be supported, including the GERB party, and we ask ourselves: which is the ruling majority of the DPS and GERB, or is it the United Patriarchs and GERB? Given that the two parliamentary groups are a majority in parliament, how will GERB support the DPS candidate? That's what we're interested in finding out. If that is not the case and we are wrong, let the colleagues from GERB come out and disprove me, say: it is not the case, we will support your candidate Mr. Penev, we will support our candidates, who we have raised from GERB. Why should United Patriarchs then be responsible for choosing an MRF representative? Where to or perhaps some new policy is formed in Bulgaria or some new governance?! I would like to ask the regular members of GERB's parliamentary group whether they agree with this because we see in the country many places where GERB and DPS jointly manage municipalities where the DPS have deputy mayors in the municipalities where GERB manages. It's not normal for us! I'll give you examples. You can see the municipality of Gorna Oryahovitsa, you can see the municipality of Kazanlak, you can see Kostinbrod and many, many others, where the DPS appeared not from the very registration of the DPS Isn't that right?! Today, we see in certain municipalities that there are new coalitions, given that there are also representatives of the United People, but it is managed with the DPS. If colleagues from GERB agree to manage with DPS, we do not mind. Everyone wears their cross in politics, but from the "United Patriarchs" "IMRO and NFSB," we do not agree to bear the negatives of government, which includes DPS in power and in all positions. We really do keep both BSP and Volya and the independent MPs and GERB party to come out and say who they will support, what are their motives and what are their arguments. Which is the greater specialist of the DSS candidate for CRC? With the fact that he's DPS? Is that enough?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u11	Stop it! Don't embarrass yourself, Angelov!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u12	If you have something to say, there is a procedure in the manner of conduct, I didn't interrupt you while you were reading the Report, did I? So I call on all the parliamentary groups to make speeches and to say clearly and categorically who they are going to stand for today. Thank you. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u13	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Angelov, this time I absolutely agree with you, but I have a question. You say you don't want to be responsible for what's happening and what's going to happen. Why are you standing at the station? Why do you have this responsibility for three years? Leave the station and you'll lose a lot of weight on your shoulders! This government will fall and this majority will go away, and this choice that you are talking about will not happen. Here, from this tribune, it is easy to distribute qualifications, but it is important what happens when you press the buttons. You did it last week by supporting the government; two months ago, when you voted on the budget and each time you prove that you differ in fairy tales and in practice you support governance. What DPS colleagues do when they press the buttons are always against it, but they support it when they have to, so let's not have this split. [[Radio.]] Stand up and say, will you leave the station when this thing happens? Because that's 121 votes, and they're due to your voices, and they're not due to the BSP voices. You and your colleagues at WALK together support this governance, but you have the opportunity to distinguish. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u15	Thank you. Second line, Mrs. Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Angelov, we almost never react to your speech because they are almost never on the substance of the debate, but in this case you asked an extremely important question. With whom does GERB really manage with "United Patriarchs" or with DPS? This question concerns not only us but the whole Bulgarian public. Since we observe many times that you make decisions under the influence of the DPS, it actually turns out that the DPS rules over you, who does it really run GERB with then? Are you the open face of the DPS in this Parliament? [[(Relations and laughter.) Claps from the Bulgarian Rhodolists.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u17	Third line? A hole, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u18	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! It's good that there's laughter in the hall and that's useful. Ms. Taskova, I don't know what eyes you have from the Volya party to comment on at all DPS, provided you sold your registration during the local elections and their activists came out of your registration, including in Kostinbrod! Open up and see the reference "The President of the DPS," the activists and the members of the DPS have come out on behalf of the Volya party in the local elections, and not just there, so that it is the WALK that talks about the DPS?! You can check it out. There are the names, the elected municipal councillors there, and on the page of the DPS you can see who are the district leaders, the municipal leaders, what are they called and whether they are in your lists............................ You do not have the right to talk about this because you gave and sold your registration to DPS in places where the main Bulgarian population lives so that the DPS can hide and thus gain a greater position in the respective municipalities! That's the truth. Mr. Svilensky, one of the reasons why we entered this government was not to allow the DPS into power, so when we see that the DPS is starting to push its interests somewhere, we react. We do not agree that you are the one who criticizes us, given that you twice ruled with them! Twice you ruled with them and the Bulgarian voters punished you for it. We've never been involved in DPS management before. [[Replys from DPS: "Eee! "]] The other thing I'm going to tell you is that, speaking of behind-the-scenes, the DPS silently supported your President Radev on the second round. You asked for it to be silent because people would not vote for it and can check all sections of the first round on how the DPS voted and on the second round how the DPS voted. They supported your president, and they supported him behind the scenes! Maybe it's official, I didn't hear. So when you talk about how you need someone to distinguish from DPS, first you have to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u19	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Procedure Mr. Popov. Colleagues, let me just remind you that this is a different topic. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, it is obvious that today's session in Parliament has started with a high start. In order for society to make its own conclusions, not only to listen to partial statements from the stand about who, who is the open or hidden person of one political party, I propose the direct broadcast of the debates and the vote on this item on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u21	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Is there any other opinion? I will put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 194 MPs: 83 against 14, 97 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Popov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! This vote has shown that colleagues from GERB, and I think that also from DPS who voted against it, really want to pass secretly and backwards. I'm asking for a re-voting procedure. You have the opportunity to correct this mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u23	Okay, thank you. We're going over the offer. [[(Replication by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov: The System is not working.]] Please cancel this vote. Please vote on the motion. Please cancel this vote, too, because there is a problem again. Please, voting mode. Vote 197 MPs: 87, against 35, abstention 75. The offer is not accepted. We continue with the speeches. Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u24	Please don't interrupt me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u25	Mr. Shopov, I'll stop you when you break the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u26	I never break the rules, Mr. Chairman, because I know it perfectly well.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u27	You're almost always on the verge of rule, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u28	I wonder why you didn't allow a direct broadcast on the Bulgarian National Television because this is about bars? Cedroscopes! The word "Rezil" is spoken in the mother tongue, right? [[Noise and lines.]] Here, because it's about those who speak mother tongues. [[Noise and lines.]] Well, those who raised the issue of the DPS and its involvement in governance at this later stage of the term of office are guilty GERB to increasingly resort to the services of the DPS because these so-called patriots, and in fact false patriots, led to the collapse of the ruling coalition. [[Replications from OP.]] And from now on, I will recall exactly the word "Rizzes," "Cadres." Here, under this proposal for Penyo Penev signed Valeri Simeonov and Iskren Veselinov. The same ones who so far attacked us remember, the beginning of the term began with a Hitler greeting. A minister was a minister for three or four days. A shot of who? NFSB. It has not been a few days and once again a proud head was raised in front of a tank at the National Museum of History, again with a Hitler greeting. This time IMRO shot. The first was Deputy Minister Pavel Tenev, the second was Ivo Antonov, who is currently acting Head of Directorate at the Ministry of Defence. The first one was taken out, but the second old frame was restrained and continues to be there. Golden footage of Simeonov from Kostinbrod a participant in the trafficking of refugees. I think her name was Anelia Veleva with criminal proceedings. He shut up and no one ever heard from him again. What's going on, dear colleagues, do you know who? We're wondering after you reported a 600,000. lv. For guarantee, no one ever heard what was going on, and I will ask Karakachanov and Iskren Veselinov: what is going on with Bate Haro? [[Noise and lines.]] Are you asking the question?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u29	Here's the first case, Mr. Shopov, when I'm going to remind you that you're moving along the edge of art. Article 57 and Article 57 157.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u30	Yeah, on the edge, but I'm not going over the edge.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u31	Be careful and get back to the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u32	Haro Abi's name was his face. [[Noise and lines.]] I mean, IMRO caught in a mold, but IMRO says it's not what you see.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u33	Mr. Shopov, you're going to force me to really react and take your word away.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u34	What is it? It's not what you see. What is it we ask you from IMRO? It's not what we see! What's it like with Bate Haro? [[Noise and lines.]] In the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, a representative of "Attack" was replaced by a violent pressure again with a gold frame of Simeonov. So much gold footage that when we asked him what's going on there, come say: a hall is named after Kamal Eyup. A living man! That's when I got scared for the guy. Typically, this person is playing dead, and he is alive, and I calmed down.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u35	Mr. Shopov, on the grounds of art. 57 of the Rules of Procedure remind you, and if you do not get involved in the subject, art. 57 in full text.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u36	Again, this man voted for this. We called him. A scandal inside the United Patriarchs. [[Noise and lines.]] What I'm saying is, I'm arguing for the camera...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u37	I am simply fulfilling the requirements of the Rules of Procedure Art. 57. Do you want me to give it to you to see?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u38	Okay. Then I start with Deputy Ministers: Deputy Minister Angel Popov scandals, remember, he was suppressed by IMRO; Deputy Minister Nikolay Prodanov from VMRO I'm talking about the camera power of IMRO and NFSB about this! I'm moving on. See what an incredible achievement the first minister is arrested and is in custody. That's what IMRO did!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u39	Mr. Shopov, you are entitled to a five-minute speech. [[Noise and lines.]] You've exceeded your time, Mr. Shopov, please finish your thought.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u40	Valeri Simeonov's failure is complete. And I talk: these are the camera failures of those who are again proposing, again they want their frame to be assigned somewhere. Partisan, colleagues! Cruel, wild, such a guerrilla there was only during Kostov's time. Those guys are getting beat up.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u41	Now please, Mr. Shopov, pay attention to me! Please pay attention to me! Thank you. Mr. Mihov, you have the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u42	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I personally demand Mr. Shopov's punishment. This is the second time I've insisted on his punishment! It's not honorable. Disrespectful and humiliating to the entire National Assembly is a similar speech that brands, accuses and distributes qualifications to people of integrity to Bulgarian citizens!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u43	Here are the pictures. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u44	Mr. Shopov, please! Mr. Shopov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u45	Please give order!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u46	Okay, give them to me and please sit down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u47	Here are the pictures to look at.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u48	Mr. Shopov, you're breaking the rules. [[Loud noise and shouting.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u49	Please give order! [[Reply from the People's Representative Pavel Shopov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u50	Mr. Shopov! Please, the Quaestors, step into the case. Please! [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Angelov, I understand.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u51	I demand that Mr. Shopov be removed immediately!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u52	Mr. Shopov, please sit down. Please sit down! We'll look into it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u53	I demand punishment.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u54	I demand Julian's punishment for calling me...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u55	Mr. Chairman, I ask you to bring order, because if we go back to our traditions, we can bring order! [[Voices from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS: "Eee! "]] I will only mention what was said the other day in front of the Apostle's monument by a Bulgarian writer who reads it all over the world: To compare the traitor with mud is an insult to the mud! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u56	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Colleagues, there has been a clear violation of the Rules of Procedure in several articles. In line with my understanding of the implementation of its penal part of the next Presidency Council, I will raise the question and discuss the measures to be taken. Right now, I'm not going to react for explanatory reasons. [[Replications by MP Pavel Shopov.]] Mr. Shopov, I am convinced that the Conference of Presidents will give you the opportunity and will make the right decision. Please take your seat. Let's get on with it. We've diverted a lot of things. It's in your best interest, Mr. Shopov, just sit down. Let's continue the debate on the subject. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u57	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u58	I can't refuse your word in the manner of conduct. Here you are, but my personal request to you is: be careful, let's not cross the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u59	Mr. Chairman, you were a witness here, Julian's face, I forgot his second or third. What was Julian's name? [[Noise and lines.]] Made respectively by Volen Siderov MP, but he Siderov will therefore bear the consequences. [[(Shouting from OP: Come on, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Here in front of you and you heard it well at least three times called me... What did you call me? You heard me. That is why I insist that he too suffers the consequences. You interrupted me just when I started with Simeonov's biggest personnel failures. [[Noise and lines.]] The biggest failure of a Bulgarian politician who has been in government until now.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u60	Mr. Shopov, I note that the procedure is in the manner of conduct. I understand what you're trying to tell me. I'll take your opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u61	I am entitled to a personal explanation, as my name has been mentioned.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u62	It was a procedure, Mr. Angelov. Please don't abuse the rules. No, I won't give you my word because you have no grounds. I already... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u63	I'm entitled to a personal explanation. [[Noise and lines.]] I want a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u64	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Noise and lines.]] If you want, I can wait for the mood to cool down a little bit.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u66	It's a procedure, is that how I understand it?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u67	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Chairman. I am addressing you, if you could just look at the transcript, because at least I heard the words of Professor Mihov, who said: if we go back to our historical roots, we know how to deal with the problem, how to settle it. This must have an explanation as to what does Professor Mihov mean, which historical roots and how will they be arranged? What exactly is meant by this thing, because it can be interpreted as a threat, including a threat to the life of a people's representative spoken by the stands. This thing must have an explanation, and this must also be submitted to the Chairman's Council of Presidents to be considered very carefully. Maybe a lot of the room dropped this thing while we were talking, but it's very important. We cannot express such words about our emotions from here. It doesn't suit this tribune, the history of this tribune, for us to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u68	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. There may be a different reading of Professor Mihov's statement. My reading ruled out a threat. [[noise and lines]] But you have the right to address this issue, so let us continue with the speeches. Guys, are there any other speeches? Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, honourable candidates for Vice-President and members of the Communications Regulation Commission! I regret that in such an important discussion, in such an important choice, it comes to this debate, which may have been right for Bulgarian citizens not to see it, because we have dropped a few more percent of our rating. Unfortunately, this was done by all those involved in the management of the state. Mr. Angelov, when I said that you were part of the government, I meant your party, I didn't tell you to separate yourself from the DPS, but I told you to separate yourself from GERB, but you didn't understand that. Your involvement in this department leads to these things. This is how the state is managed with scandals, haggling with insults. This also goes out into the street, so society perceives parliamentaryism. Unfortunately, the great guilt and great responsibility lies with all of us here, but more with this part of the House, because, as you have seen, our colleagues on the left were standing and looking at you with great interest. Now on the subject. At first glance, a transparent procedure for the selection of all authorities introduced before one or two meetings was actually vitiated. And from the Report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications... You are 240 MPs here, I do not know if you understand which candidate said what, which candidate proposed what, which candidate what program, vision and ideas has for the development of CRC, for the regulation of the sector. This is an independent regulator that you need each of you, when you vote for each of them, to know what ideas you have. We at the Transport, Information Technology and Communications Committee understood it. We in the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications have listened to them, we have an opinion on each of the candidates. Unfortunately, the other 218 or 220 MPs could not know because the procedure is such, but then you will say: the procedure was a transparent hearing in committee, the parliament voted, the parliament understood. "It is understood, honourable Members, that the decisions in this House are only legitimized by pressing the button that decisions are taken elsewhere. This is evident in the speeches of both the Patriots and the colleagues of Ataka. Now it will be seen in my speech as well. Mr. Angelov urged every parliamentary group to say who they would vote for. I'll go further, Mr. Angelov. In addition to the fact that our parliamentary group will only support Ms. Denitsa Zlateva's candidacy, I will give the President and the outcome of the vote. [[Shows sealed envelope.]] I will give it now and ask the journalists then to request this list from the President and to see whether this Parliament is making decisions, or whether decisions are being made elsewhere, and here they are being implemented. Here you go, Mr. Chairman. [[Passing a sealed envelope to the President.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u70	Mr. Svilensky, don't use the President's figure. I can't take that and I don't commit like that.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u71	For information to the journalists, I've been taking pictures with my phone for an hour when I sealed this envelope, and I can show them later so you won't say I'm...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u72	All right, take it, then you can show it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u73	Whatever you want to do. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Whatever you want to do with him, Mr. Chairman. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] The three selected candidates are written inside. In just a few minutes, fellow Members... Mr. Chairman, if you claim transparency, read them to make it clear to the guests on top of how the Bulgarian National Assembly makes decisions, how decisions are lowered and how they are implemented by the parliamentary groups, and how Bulgaria is managed. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Dear colleagues, we can't go on like this! The election of many other authorities is coming, and this way the state will not get anywhere. I will expect Admiral Manushev one day to come and say: "Colegi, the state has sank! " - Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u74	Bulgaria will not sink in 1300 years.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u75	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. - What's the line? Mrs. Taskova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u76	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Svilensky, I congratulate you on the insight you've come to, but why now, three years later? We, without issuing an envelope, announced the vote for the members of the Supreme Judicial Council when it was a fact. Or simply when members of the BSP will not be elected, it is a big problem for the state, and when we foretold exactly what the result of the voting of the members of the Supreme Judicial Council would be, it is a problem for the state. For this transparency and for there to be no backstage in the Bulgarian National Assembly, and for this to be clearly demonstrated the behavior of every political party and to be responsible for its actions to the Bulgarian citizens, we appeal from the first day we are in the National Assembly. If you come to the conclusion that there is a backroom three years later just because BSP clearly does not participate in it, it is indeed congratulations again, but it is disappointing. We won't be involved in any backstage. [[(noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]] , we have signed the candidacy for President, which we will support, and we will stand behind him there, as we stand with our signature.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Taskova. Mr. Letifov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Svilenski, it is very difficult for me to give you a reply, but I will just remind you that the hearing procedure has been voted by the National Assembly. All parliamentary groups shall have representatives in the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The hearing and the hearing have surrendered online not 240 to be able to watch it, but anyone who is willing can come in and listen to them and watch everything that our candidates have exposed. They presented themselves with dignity, so they are all admitted to this. Pressing the button is actually the choice of MPs. This push of the button changes laws, changes the party subsidy, changes the personnel decisions or chooses the personnel decisions, so pressing the button is actually the will of the MPs. I can't agree that, you see, there's an extreme or a different arrangement here. As for who will be elected and how will be elected? We heard colleagues? One of them will not support any candidate, BSP said they will support theirs. I think it is very easy arithmetic, not only for journalists and MPs, but also for the whole of Bulgaria. In this film we will not participate. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Is there a third line? No. Mr. Svilensky, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Letifov, as you found it difficult to give me a line, it makes it even harder for me to make your back because you're right. Formally yes, Commission, hearing, internet. I ask my colleagues: how many of their colleagues looked on the Internet or met the candidates?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u80	That doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u81	I'm sure... [[GERB's noise and lines]] . How many questions had been made to the Commission?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u82	None.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u83	Not one!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u84	Why?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u85	I mean... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u86	It's not the National Assembly's fault.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u87	It is not precisely the National Assembly that is to blame because it lays down the rules by which decisions are made. My line is mainly to Mrs. Taskova. Ms. Taskova, you, a few minutes ago here in this Chamber, voted not to broadcast the meeting to the Bulgarian citizens. Why are you afraid to see Bulgarian citizens support the majority? Mrs. Taskova, let me remind you, because you say when the epiphany is. Firstly, I thank you for saying from your parliamentary group that I consider it an opinion of the entire group that BSP has not participated in the backstage in the country. Thanks for that. Thank you. [[Noise.]] We have clearly stated who we will support. What's more disturbing is that you made it clear that you know the outcome, as I do, by the way, know it. Only I know it based on what happened, and you know it based on the backroom that told you what to do. This will come out now on the dashboard when the results come out, you will see how many votes there are and for whom. I call on if there are debates with speeches on the subject, to make them and to move on to the more interesting part of the vote, and the more interesting one, Mr. President, if, of course, you allow, and the guests will be interested to show you what Georgi Svilenski has given you in the bag. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u88	We continue with the speeches. Are there any other speeches, colleagues? Mrs. Taskova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u89	Dear Mr. Chairman, we have always followed behavior from the parliamentary group of the Volya to raise the authority and image of the MPs in Bulgaria in the eyes of the Bulgarian citizens. When clear lies are uttered from the stands and when there is incompetence, we cannot help but react and not want to seek justice. I am challenged, of course, by Mr. Svilensky's duvet to answer for BSP when they are involved, there is backstage when they are not participating, it is parliamentary life. It is the same with corruption when they are involved, it is just a comrade distribution of Bulgarian citizens' funds when they are not involved, however, is corruption. [[General applause from GERB.]] I will not allow myself to tell you whether you have the right to speak to me that way, or you have no right to speak to me that way. What you have allowed yourself to have your political behavior, your image in front of your constituents, you have the right to speak to me as you see it, but do not underestimate the people who are watching us, whether it is broadcast directly on BNT or currently on Channel 3, because they can draw their conclusions...............................and when BSP is involved. Do you want me to remind you of the subsidy case? Do you want me to remind you that then Volya voted against all the proposals and supported only and only the will of the Bulgarian voters for one lev. What do we call this? Or just let's not talk about where BSP is involved?! Thank you all and may the most worthy candidates be selected. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u90	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. - What's the line? You have the floor for a line, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u91	Ms. Taskova, you have already taken the floor several times and we have never found out who your parliamentary group will support. [[Noise and lines: "They have their candidate. "]] An applicant clearly has, the question is: who will they support from other candidates? [[(Reply:) You're the only one who didn't understand.]] How could I not have known? Who are you voting for? Say: "We will support this one and this one, or we will support only our candidate. " - Say who do you support?! This is important! Will you support the DSS candidate? Will you support GERB? Will you support the United Patriarchs or the BSP? Tell me who you're supporting.! It is clear that it will be seen in the vote. But the question is... Go out and say you are very moral and honest, responsible and always speak on behalf of the Bulgarian people. Say: "We, Volya, are going to vote for this and this because we believe them to be the most worthy and will protect the interests of the people. " - Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u92	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Second line? I won't. Hole, Mrs. Taskova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u93	Mr. Angelov, I am convinced that there is no one in this room who has not understood who we support from the will. We will support the candidate we have proposed and the proposal we have signed. Let's make it clear to everyone who didn't understand, if that's what's important. Not that I understand whether you will support the candidate of the Volya, but I have never been excited about what you do, because it never leads Bulgaria to something good.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Taskova. We are continuing the debate. Is there anyone else who wants to make a statement? Mr. Popov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In connection with the previous statement, let us make a statement. Ms. Taskova, your application under which you signed, didn't you sign with GERB in common? Was it or was it not? Come and tell us so we know. Because you're talking about the backroom, because you're talking about the lack of transparency, you're voting one way, you're talking about the other way around. Come, declare with whom you signed your candidacy, which parties you agreed to, when, where. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u96	Thank you. - What's the line? Line, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u97	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Popov, your speech was very correct, but say it precisely and clearly: Volya, together with GERB and with the United patriots signed the same application together, not taking part in the management, but participating in the production! Not taking part in the management in front of the media, but taking part in the management in practice, both in the vote of mistrust and in the vote of the budget, and today you will also see how the governance is supported. Let's not speculate! Bulgarian citizens are smart people and know how to express support. When you sign together, when you vote together, it means you share the governance policy of the government that is being implemented. This, my fellow Members, in the case of the will... [[Replicates from "VOLYA" "Bulgarian Rhodolyptics".]] Yeah, that's right. ...is hypocrisy because in front of the entire Bulgarian people explain how they do not participate in the government, but here come and participate in it. That's the difference! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u98	Thank you. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u99	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm making a line from my colleague Philip Popov. He may have missed a significant moment in relation to the moral ranks of the party. We would like our colleague Taskova to explain in the vote of the President of KKCONPI when you made your candidate in the face of the worthy Simeon Naydenov, why did you vote for him and then voted for Sotir Tsatsarov? Aren't you the moral stooges?! [[Replicates from "VOLYA" "Bulgarian Rhodolyptics".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u100	We'll continue with the speeches, colleagues. You have the floor for procedure, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u101	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs, we want 30 minutes of rest. [[crowd cheering and cheering.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u102	Abort work for 30 minutes. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u103	We are continuing the debate. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. Mr. Angelov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u104	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! From our parliamentary group, we want a name check before the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u105	Please, name-check lists. Adlen Shukri Shevked - here Albena Vladimirova Naydenova - this is Alexander Dimitrov Paunov - here Alexander Ivanov Matsurev - here Alexander Koychev Ivanov - here Alexander Mairov Siddi - absent Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov - absent Alexander Petrov Alexandrov - here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Tihomirov Simov - absent Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Anastas Marinov Popdimitrov - this is Angel Iliev Isaev - here Andon Dimov Donchev - here Andrian Ivanov Raykov - here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anna Nikolaeva Slavova - here Anton Konstantinov Kutev - here Asya Atanasova Peeva - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov - absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - here Bogdan Emilov Botsev - here Boris Vangelov Borisov - here Boris Petkov Kirchev - here Boris Yankov Yachev - absent Borislav Ivanov Borisov - here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva - here Burhan Ilyazov Abase - here Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Georgiev Lambev - absent Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - absent Valentin Mirchov Milushev - here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova - here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - here Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - here Vasil Tsvetkov - here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov - absent Velislava Ivanova Krasteva - absent Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova - here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva - here Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - absent Veska Marinova Nencheva - here Violeta Ruseva Zheleva - here Vladimir Slavchev Valev - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Stoyanova Zhelyazkova - here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov - here Georgi Georgiev Stoilov - here Georgi Dimitrov Andreev - here Georgi Evdokiev Markov - absent Georgi Zaprev Dinev - here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov - here Georgi Kolev Kolev - here Georgi Nikolov Vergiev - here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - here Georgi Tenev Stankov - here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - here Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova - here Daniel Petkov Yordanov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - absent Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova - here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova - here Danka Evstatieva Zidarova-Lurtova - here Dean Stoyanov Stanchev - here Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Petrov Taskov - here Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Angelova Todorova - here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - absent Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - absent Dzhevdeth Ibryam Chakarov - here Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - here Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - absent Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - here Dimitar Ivanov Avramov - here Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev - here Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov - here Dobrin Nenov Danev - here Donka Dimova Simeonova - absent Dora Ilieva Yankova - here Dora Stoyanova Hristova - here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - here Evgeni Genchev Budinov - absent Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Evdokia Slavchova Asenova - here Elena Stefanova Pesheva - absent Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov - here Emil Marinov Hristov - here Emil Seraphimov Tonchev - here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - here Errol Osman Mehmed - here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - here Brought to you by WITH S2 Written In The Heavens Subbing Squad Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Dimov Ivanov - here Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - here Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva - here Ivo Angelov Hristov - here Iglika Ivanova-Subeva - here Ilian Angelov Timchev - here Imren Ismetova Mehmedova - here Irena Metodieva Dimova - here Irena Todorova Anastasova - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Ihsan Halil Hakke - here Yordan Apostolicov - absent Yordan Iliev Yordanov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev - here Kalin Nikolov Popovski - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - here Konstantin Veselinov Popov - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Mitkov Subev - here Krasimir Hristov Yankov - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Cristina Maximova Sidorova - here Krum Kostadinov Zarkov - absent Krastina Nikolova Taskova - here Lalo Georgiev Kirilov - here Lilyana Drumeva Radeva - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - absent Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova - here Maria Yordanova Ilieva - here Maria Yordanova Tsvetkova - here Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Vladimirov Tinchev - here So far, we have 125. Let's get back to work. Procedure Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u106	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal to extend the working time until the vote on this item is completed on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u107	You mean the legislative part to start the controls after the legislative part is completed. Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 192 MPs: 134, against 18, abstention 40. The motion is accepted. Parliamentary control will begin immediately after the vote on the point is closed. Is there a wish to speak from the candidates for the Commission? [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, I must ask you not to react so harshly. I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I'll read you the project for: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the election of Vice-President of the Communications Regulation Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 22, para. 4 of the Law on Electronic Communications HAS DECIDED He elected Kristina Georgieva Andonova-Hitrova as Vice-President of the Communications Regulation Commission. Please, voting mode. Vote 202 MPs: 119, against 73, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. I'll introduce you to the next proposal: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the election of a member of the Communications Regulation Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 22, para. 4 of the Law on Electronic Communications HAS DECIDED She elected Anna Valcheva Hadjieva as a member of the Communications Regulation Commission. Please, voting mode. Vote 197 MPs: 119, against 67, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. I present to you the next proposal for: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the election of a member of the Communications Regulation Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 22, para. 4 of the Law on Electronic Communications HAS DECIDED He elected Denitsa Zlatkova Zlateva as a member of the Communications Regulation Commission. Please, voting mode. They voted 193 MPs: 83, 47, abstention 63. The offer is not accepted. I present to you the next project for: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the election of a member of the Communications Regulation Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 22, para. 4 of the Law on Electronic Communications HAS DECIDED He chose Erdinch Ismail Hajrula as a member of the Communications Regulation Commission. Please, voting mode. Vote 197 MPs: 109, against 70, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. [[(Applause and cheering) Bravo! (Applause and cheering from the OP.) A line from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski.)]] I'll introduce you to the next proposal: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the election of a member of the Communications Regulation Commission
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u108	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u109	You're too late, Mr. Angelov. I explained and started the next decision. [[Reply from MP Julian Angelov.]] You have no reason to protest. Follow the order for development in the hall. [[Noise and lines from OP.]] The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 22, para. 4 of the Law on Electronic Communications HAS DECIDED He elected Penyo Atanasov Penev as a member of the Communications Regulation Commission. Please, voting mode. Vote 188 MPs: 16 against 56, abstention 116. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u110	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u111	Negative vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u112	Now you can come in, dear Mr. Angelov. Wait, there's a negative vote. If you want a re-vote, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u113	I want procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u114	Okay. Negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Well, we witnessed what I was talking about. I voted against the candidacy of the last candidate not because I have something against the person he spoke to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, defended his name and his knowledge and his authority, and you all punished him with 16 votes. I voted against it because in this room, the backroom was polished.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u116	Mr. Svilensky...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u117	There was a statement on the ground! [[Definitions between President Emil Hristov and MP Georgi Svilenski.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u118	Dear Mr. Chairman, because I see that there is a coliseum whether I have spoken or not and not to transfer the procedures, the only thing I am calling you for is in the name of the truth, in the name of knowing how the National Assembly works, in the name of all these cameras that stand next to you film and transmit to the Bulgarian citizens, to open the envelope and show what I had surrounded half an hour ago in this room. If not, please let me do it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u119	Here's your envelope. He's standing. No! Not from the stands, Mr. Svilensky, that can't be!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u120	Why? [[Opens the envelope and shows a sheet.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u121	I'll take your word for it. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u122	I'm not gonna talk, I'm just gonna show.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u123	This thing, Mr. Svilensky, is now a violation and please leave the stands. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Leave, please, the stands. [[Relations between MP Georgi Svilenski and Chairman Emil Hristov aside from the microphones. Loud noise and lines.]] Mr. Angelov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u124	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is the way it is. At today's sitting, as before, several times the Rules have been violated, including with the previous one, who had no right to have a negative vote, given that he was speaking in the debate. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] Before that, I asked for a re-vote and because you never look at this side of the room. [[direct the right block where the OP locations are]] I don't know for what reason, you denied me the right to request a re-vote! And I have asked for it because I believe that this House had to re-show "there were people who did not vote, especially the representatives of "Attack" who got confused and voted for the DPS! They voted for the DPS rep! [[Applause from OP.]] I wanted to give the representatives of Ataka to change their vote and not to support the DSS candidate, and you took that right from me, Mr. Chairman! I guess the mistake is true! [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u125	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u126	Negative vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u127	The negative votes are over. It's different procedures now. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Excuse me, Mrs. Ninova, when I gave the floor for a negative vote, this was the moment you wanted. We are already continuing to develop. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Is this how you conduct yourself, Mr. Svilensky?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u128	- We're entitled to three!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u129	Yes, you have three and they should be in the appropriate place.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u130	You're dictating things!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u131	I'm dictating because there was only one person who wanted to.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u132	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u133	There was only one who wanted it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u134	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u135	Can you do it the way you're supposed to do it?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u136	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u137	Then I'll take it the way it is!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u138	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. President, I take the floor in the manner of conduct, because I do not agree with you taking away my right to a negative vote, explaining why I voted negatively.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u139	Okay, I gave you the floor for a negative vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u140	Well, until just now, you were arguing that you wouldn't give me the floor on this procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u141	Okay, let's make this my mistake.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u142	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I voted against this vote because we, on the left, are against the backstage in which this National Assembly participates, against the triple coalition between the DPS, Volya and GERB, which is once again confirmed by the votes and the work of this National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u143	Thank you. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) National Representative Tasco Ermenkov wants the floor.)]] For a negative vote, Mr. Ermenkov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u144	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted negatively because I believe that this procedure, which has now taken place for the election of extremely important Commissioners, which will be dealing with the country's resources, which, given its limitedness, will have the price of gold, has been corrupted from the very beginning. From the very beginning, when these behind-the-scene arrangements were made, when it became clear that the choice was decided, and we would be another notary stamp of one solution, you did not allow this to become clear to everyone who looked at, to everyone who was interested in this problem. Things are clear from now on for all the other committees that we will be choosing in advance must be agreed, well-defined and very comfortable people so that they can be voted by the National Assembly. Mr. Chairman, you didn't allow anything but...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u145	Negative vote and please don't analyze me! In another procedure, I'll give you the opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u146	Mr. Chairman, you're interrupting me! This is an element of my negative vote because you did not give at the very beginning the opportunity to become part of the transparency of this process when you refused to accept something that my colleague Svilenski gave you to make clear to everyone that you are impartial. On the contrary, you have shown your bias and this was yet another reason to vote negatively. [[Noise and lines.]] Basically, this procedure will enter the shameful annals of this National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u147	In the manner of conducting the procedure. Mr. Letifov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is the way I conduct myself. I will agree with Mr. Angelov that the Rules must be respected. If you followed the Rules of Procedure, you should have punished him several times on the principle and rules of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, but you did not. The next moment is a procedure that we have to walk. The rules clearly say: The Vice-President of the CRC and two members should be elected. "Of these five candidates, of whom all were worthy, I must say that I am delighted and proud of the candidates who had submitted all the parliamentary groups and MPs, but you allowed the National Assembly to become a vendetta against these worthy candidates. After all, they must be chosen! Indeed, the bias and voting of the MPs to one degree or another determines the two members, in this case the Vice-President of the CRC. Failure to hold the meeting actually questioned the qualities of these worthy candidates, and the election was for worthy candidates - Vice-President and two members, which I think we should congratulate again and all participants. With their qualities, with their biography they were not obliged to endure what the National Assembly put them through today. I therefore congratulate the chosen and those who have the dignity to participate in this procedure, and I ask you to follow the Rules in order to protect their biography and their personal dignity. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u149	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. I just want to let you know that the lead sitting, whoever he is, is not part of this process. And what the National Assembly is becoming depends on you, the Members of the National Assembly, who are in the Chamber. You set the tone, you participate, it's all your responsibility, and the Chairman is just running the meeting. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u150	Mr. Chairman, I am provoked by what you have just said, explaining to Mr. Letifov that the President is not part of this process. Since the President of the National Assembly is not part of this process, tell me who is in charge and is organizing this protest.! Because we tell you a thousand times that indeed the National Assembly is used for a rubber seal and decisions are not made here. That's what we mean by making a remark and sealing this envelope! That was the idea to show you that everything was decided.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u151	Thank you. Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u152	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is again in the manner of conduct. And it is because you did not allow it, you took away the floor of colleague Georgi Svilenski, who wanted here, from the stands, to show not what to do but the decision of the National Assembly and the Report. That's what was in the envelope. Of course, the shame for you in this case is that he had surrounded those who would be chosen in advance. This is what he wanted to show here from the National Assembly stands. You didn't let it happen. I understand why you didn't let it happen. You are obviously ashamed of these actions that have just been carried out here in the National Assembly, by the government.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u153	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Mr. Svilensky had already spoken. I thank him, regardless of my mistake, for giving him the floor, and I don't know what you're defending right now. He took note of my remark that he had expressed a negative vote and therefore suspended his speech from the stand. Thank you. Again in the manner of holding you have the floor, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u154	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chairman, you've been in session since this morning, almost from the very beginning. You just fooled the House because when you interrupted Mr. Svilensky during the negative vote, you interrupted him because he was involved in the debate with a speech that was right. But you fooled the room because you were the one who refused to accept the envelope from Mr. Svilensky and then this envelope to be shown from the stands a little earlier. So don't mislead the room. Secondly, something I want to do through you to the President-in-Office of the Bulgarian National Assembly. Let me tell you because yesterday in my procedure I told you, I respect you as a person not only because of your position, but let the President Karayancheva of all important votes be here, not running away from responsibility...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u155	I don't think Mrs. Karayancheva is running away.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u156	...and assume the weight of the vote and the functions of President of the National Assembly. Because if we get a video report, you'll see that many of the important votes Mrs Karayancheva is not here. And something important that I want to say to her, I'm sorry she's not in the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u157	He's in the gym. [[Mrs. Karayancheva gives a sign that she is in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u158	And because I'm talking...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u159	But you have a procedure at the moment in the way you're leading me. What you're saying right now, Mr. Chenchev, has nothing to do with my conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u160	If this is the opening chair of the Forty-fourth National Assembly, dear Mr. Hristov, I would say the following, since in an interview of my own, which I read today, Ms. Karayancheva says that the President of the Republic should...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u161	Mr. Chenchev, what you're already saying has nothing to do with my conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u162	This is in connection with the justification of the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u163	You're running out of time, complete your procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u164	I'm going to graduate now. After she says that the President should be president, notice, even to her, I call her to be President of the National Assembly even to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u165	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. About the claim that I've been deceiving. I'm going to offer you a reference, both in the minutes and in the Rules, and you'll find out why I didn't let Mr. Svilensky show what he wrote from the stands. Colleagues, we continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. I will introduce you to the new questions for the period from 14 February to 20 February from: - MPs Dragomir Stoynev and Tasco Ermenkov to Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy, on the policy of the government in the field of guaranteeing the gas supply of Bulgaria. Response should be made in plenary on 28 February 2020; - MPs Elena Pesheva and Krastina Taskova to Kiril Ananiev. Minister of Health, about the construction of the National Children's Hospital in Sofia. The plenary sitting should be answered on 28 February 2020. I will provide you with the written answers from: - Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Stoilov; - Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov of five questions from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov on a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Vesela Lecheva; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on a question from the National Representative Vesela Lecheva; - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva to a question from the MPs Georgi Gokov, Aleksandar Paunov, Dora Yankova, Ivan Chenchev, Manol Genov, Rumen Georgiev and Nikolay Alexandrov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister for Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from the MP Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the MPs Georgi Yordanov and Ilian Timchev; - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov to a question from the peoples representatives Georgi Svilenski and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on a question from the National Representative Nikolai Ivanov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on a question from the National Representative Tanya Petrova; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Evdokiya Asenova; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on a question from the National Representative Smilyana Niva; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev on a question from the National Representative Alexander Matsurev; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Boychev. We are continuing with a question from MP Jayhan Ibryamov to Krasimir Karakachanov, Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister for Defence. The question is about the participation of the Ministry of Defence as an organizer in the Discussion Scientific Round Table on the topic: The Jewish Work Guilt during World War II............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. You have the floor, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u166	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! My question to Minister Karakachanov is about the participation of the Ministry of Defence as co-organizer in the discussion scientific round table on the topic: On 17 January this year, a scientific round table was held at the Central Military Club on the topic: the Jewish Labour Guilt during World War II. The main report in the forum was delivered by Prof. Dimitar Nedyalkov from the Military Academy of Georghi Sava Rakovski. The opinion and the conclusion that the labor forces are the instrument by which the Bulgarian Jews have escaped deportation is imposed. The main conclusions of the so-called round table led to the outrage not only of the Jewish society, but also of prominent Bulgarian historians from yet another attempt at historical engineering and the reversal of historical facts and events. In this regard, I asked you a question during your hearing in the Defence Committee, but you were adamant that there was no discrimination either in the army, and that is a claim... neither in the state, and that we should not concentrate solely on the Jews who were there for a certain period of time. Unfortunately, this so-called period by you coincides with the time period between the adoption of the Law on the Protection of the Nation, promulgated on 23 January 1941, which gives the legal basis for the creation of Jewish labor groups concerning all men from 18 to 46 years of age, accustomed from 1 May to 30 October and working 12 hours without pay. This law takes away all the civil, political and economic rights of the Jews and this continues until the second half of 1944, i.e. their release from service. A period during which they have been displaced, humiliated and mobilised to work under extremely difficult conditions of state, municipal or public constructions free of charge only against cooking, without the ability to provide the most necessary for their families and without providing them with working clothing. In this regard, my question to you is: what is your position with regard to the participation of your trusted Ministry as co-organizer of such a discussion scientific round table that damages both the reputation of the Ministry of Defence and our country, which is a proud member of the International Union for Honoring the Victims of the Holocaust?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u167	Thank you, dear Mr. Ibryamov. Mr. Minister, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u168	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Ibryamov, what I heard was a turglutch of false things. First of all, the Department of Defense is not a co-organizer. The Ministry of Defence in the face of the Military Clubs &amp; Military Holidays.......... has provided the hall..................................................................................... If I had been invited, I would have gone as a historian, too, because the subject is interesting and important. However, I ask myself the question of who is required by a national representative elected in the Republic of Bulgaria to try to make suggestions in society on a topic that will be heard in the outside world that Bulgaria hardly does, because that is what you claim, is involved in genocide against the Jews, Holocaust and so on? It is known that Bulgaria is the only European country and that is what I told you and the question you asked me, Bulgaria is the only European country that does not allow Bulgarian citizens of Jewish origin to be deported. Both you and everyone as Bulgarians to be proud of this fact, you are trying to downplay it, deny it, and I do not know what dividend you expect to receive and from where? I cannot be unemotional because what you are doing is slandering the Bulgarian state and the Bulgarian army. Then I answered you very clearly, and there are the protocols. You claim that a number of Bulgarian scientists were outraged. Count these numbers to me, list these Bulgarian scientists to me. On the contrary, it is the opposite. This round table is organized by a number of prominent Bulgarian scientists. On January 2nd, a letter was received from the Director of the Institute for Historical Studies at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for the use of a hall in the Central Military Club on January 17th to present the results of a large-scale documentary study conducted in partnership with the Independent Historical Society, Veliko Tarnovo University, Military History Archive, Central State Archive, Military Academy on the topic: The Rescue of Bulgarian Jews during the Second World War. This is the Round Table and these are the organizers. Where did you see some anti-Semitism or some organization that could be likened as such? These are the number of Bulgarian scientists "Universities," BAS, Institute of History, State Archives and so on. This round table was attended by: Deputy Minister of Culture, Deputy Minister of Education, MPs, the Director of the Office of the American Jewish Committee in Bulgaria, representatives of the Organization of Shalom and the Bulgarian-Jewish Research Institute and other public and scientific organizations. On the basis of published and unused documents and photos from Bulgarian and foreign archives, it has been argued that labour guilt, including for Bulgarian citizens, is for all Bulgarian citizens so far, including those of Jewish origin, has been built entirely not by the laws which you cited for the protection of the state, but by the Decree-Law-Law on Temporary Employment of 1938, not by the Law on the Protection of the State, and by the Law on the Armed Forces of 1940, by the latter, by all those who are subject to employment, are regulated conditions of life and labour relating to all those who have been called upon for such employment. I and the Commission have told you, only that you have not bothered to read and learn something from the history of the country where you are a Member of the National Assembly, that employment was introduced as a practice in Bulgaria in 1920 by a government that could be called any.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u169	Time, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u170	The government of Stamboliyski and BZNS, but it cannot be called either right or pro-German or pro-fascist. Over half a million Bulgarian citizens passed during this labor occupation from 1920 to 1945, and by 2000 more than a million and two hundred thousand Bulgarian citizens passed, but since we are talking about the period until the Second World War, the conditions under this law were the same for everyone. I therefore ask the question: who is it necessary to look for the way in which a stain should be cast on Bulgaria from the platform of the National Assembly? Again, then the Bulgarian state defended its Jews and did not allow them to be deported. One of the forms is this because under the Law of Labour and under the Law of the Army, if you are mobilized, you are not subject to deportation. All of them then defended the Bulgarian Jews. Bulgaria is the only country in Europe. From your question there is an attempt to blame Bulgaria for something that is not there. Since my time is up, I'm going to take advantage of the backrest to finish the arguments I have. Thank you. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u171	Thank you, Mr. Karakachanov. Here you go, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u172	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister! For the reading opportunities of every Bulgarian citizen I will not pay attention, but you are obliged to answer me as Minister of Defense and not as a historian. Did you know that in the period of your inauguration as Minister of Defense interesting things happen in this ministry, under the auspices of this ministry? All publications on websites, in media, indicate that you are a co-organizer, your trusted Ministry is the co-organizer of this event. Since you are in this ministry, the first case that shows that something bad is happening is the act that Ivan Donov did He had to be released. You kept him. You awarded Djanko Markov, who, from the stands of the Thirty-Seventh National Assembly, told the Jews in the Western Outskirts a hostile population. The round table proves the same, but I'll go further. Your deputy personally said he would engage with Lukovmarsh. All these things, Mr. Minister, lead to one thing: are you ordering all this to happen, is there any connection? [[Replications from OP.]] Are you familiar as a historian...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u173	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u174	...with a t. 4 of the Paris peace treaty, Mr. Minister? Of course, I want to hear if you also approve of the position of Djanko Markov delivered by this National Assembly? [[Replications from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u175	Please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u176	So before I graduate, I'll tell you: there's a book that's based on a series of regulations. This is anti-Jewish legislation in the period 1942. [[shows]] , page 33.. You can read Chapter 2.Requests...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... [[Noise and lines from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u177	Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u178	...who are under the supervision of the Ministry of War and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u179	The weather, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u180	Minister, no one underestimates the role of Bulgaria, the Bulgarian society and those who helped the Jews living here. But with such a kind of deed [[PEOPLE SPEAKING]] You as Minister of Defence and as co-managing in coalition management with GERB humiliate the state Bulgaria. [[Noise and lines from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u181	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Colleagues, please be quiet! Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u182	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I've calmed down, Mr. Ibryamov. I thought you wanted to shit on Bulgaria, and in fact you wanted to shit on me. That's better, because we can fight, but the state shouldn't embarrass it. In fact, you've said another turglugüvech, this time out of lies, I'll say it, you can sue me if you want. You've told a lie here!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u183	Watch your language, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u184	No, I was listening, but when someone from the National Assembly stands trying to attribute to some acts that are not true, it's a lie. The Bulgarian word is a lie, I do not know how it is in Turkish, but in Bulgarian it is a lie. First, I'll fix you. This tyranny is not from the Western outskirts, there was no problem with legislation regarding the Bulgarian Jews, you probably want to say Western Thrace. But it still shows who reads, who hasn't read, and who hasn't read. I'm not going to go into the quotes you're quoting from the books, now this is not a scientific conference, it's parliamentary control. Ivo Andonov. Well, he was an employee of this ministry, and the photo is from when you had a deputy minister in this ministry. Well, if I'm not mistaken, I guess they found him in a hotel at a meeting with some services in a neighbouring country or am I mistaken? I think I'm wrong! But if we turn back time, Ivo Andonov is an employee of that time, but I didn't hear you say anything then. Do not try to use the anti-Semitism map in domestic politics in Bulgaria. In Bulgaria there is no such phenomenon, it was not in those times when Bulgaria was dependent on the Third Reich, it is not now. I don't know what deputy you're talking about to the Ministry of Defense, to the Red Cross, to some party that Lukovmarsh had organized? When did he set it up? That's why I said that a turglutch of lies you told. Regarding what you said, I'll read to you. The commander of the Labor Forces is General Anton Ganev. And when the People's Court sued him after 9 September, in his defense, many Jews went to his defense to protect him because he was the one who tried with his behavior as Commander of the Labor Forces to save them from deportation and they protected him. Thanks to their protection, he gets rid of the rope, as they say. Here is the order of this same Anton Ganev with regard to the workers, but you do not listen, because you do not listen, and you will not learn, because you do not read. And if you're not listening, how can we comment later?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u185	Mr. Karakachanov, the weather.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u186	With regard to the discrimination you say there was no payment. Well, there was no payment in the Labor Forces of any citizen. I think you're old enough to remember in the barracks before November 10th, and after November 10th, there was no payment either. It's a crime, not a hire job, but you're messing this up. Secondly, the order of this same General Anton Ganev, specifically concerning Jewish workers, to require the following conditions with the argument that this is a urban population which the urban population is not accustomed to physical labor. See what this dark-bessed person commands in your opinion: "In the first week of work to be required of workers of Jewish origin, 50% of the minimum norm; the second week is 66%; the third week is 75%, and by the fourth week to look for the full norm, which is for all others, regardless of whether they are Bulgarians, Armenians, Turks, Gypsies and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u187	Get it over with, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u188	I mean, you can see that the state that had the policy to save the Jews, including the Labor Forces, used it as a way to protect them, because, again, I told you, a person who was mobilized is not subject to deportation. And this was one of the forms along with the Orthodox Church, the appeal of the then exarch and so on, the king and others to save the Bulgarian Jews. I don't know if it's just the main mufti then did he speak on the subject? I don't think so. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u189	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Thank you, Mr. Karakachanov, for participating in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to a question to the Minister of Health Mr. Kiril Ananiev. The question will be asked by the People's Representative Teodora Halacheva on the implementation of the National Strategy for the Child 2008 - 2018. Here you are, Mrs. Halacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u190	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! A decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria on 31 January 2008 adopted a National Strategy for the Child for the period 2008 - 2018. In Part Two, Strategic objective, operational objectives and measures for their implementation, Section.Acts and measures for the implementation of the operational objectives of the priority areas............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. My question to you, Minister, is: what is done by the Ministry in charge of the implementation of this measure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u191	Thank you, dear Mrs. Halacheva. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u192	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Halacheva, the activities and measures to achieve the operational objectives in priority areas of the National Strategy for the Child 2008 - 2018, including those for which the Ministry of Health is the leading, responsible contractor or partner institution, are planned annually in the National Programme for Child Protection, which is adopted by the Council of Ministers. The Ministry of Health and the National Centre for Public Health and Analysis shall provide the State Agency for Child Protection with a report on the implementation of these activities for the relevant year for the preparation of the summary report. I present to you some of the main activities carried out by the Ministry, respectively by the National Centre for Public Health and Analysis and regional health inspections related to the implementation of the measure referred to in your question. A study of its impact on children's health was conducted in 2010 on the forthcoming introduction of the mandatory full-time training form in the first class. The study covered 789 students from the first grade. Based on the results, a report on recommendations for optimal organisation of full - time training has been prepared. The analysis of the health status of children and students, published annually in the Citizens' Health Report, outlines as a trend the leading place of spinal distortion in the student morbidity structure, along with visual abnormalities and obesity. Due to the importance of the problem, a study was conducted in 2011 and 2012 to identify measures to prevent spinal distortion in children at the initial school age. Based on the data received, recommendations have been made to ensure normal physical development, prevention of obesity and obesity and improving the school environment, especially on a sports basis in schools. Information materials on the topic were also developed. In 2012 and 2013, the National Centre for Public Health and Analysis conducted a study on the impact of the virtual environment on children's health, including immobilisation as a result of the prolonged stay in front of the screens. Information material with recommendations has also been developed. In 2013 a team from the National Center of Public Health and Analysis together with the National Sports Academy developed and aprobated a Programme for the Prevention of Spinal Deformations in the primary school age. Eleven schools in the country - eight in Sofia and one in Pleven, Velingrad and Stara Zagora - are equipped with sports complexes for holding classes in correctional gymnastics. Realized activities prove that its introduction into schools is an effective measure for the prevention of spinal distortion. To improve physical activity in schools in 2013 the Ministry of Health and the National Center for Public Health and Analyses conducted a survey on the topic "Consistency of sports base in schools in the country and opportunities for increasing mobility in students. 2000 schools are covered all over the country. Recommendations are made for improving the base for physical education and sports classes in schools. There's a lot more to it than that. I'm gonna have to move on, maybe in a little while.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u193	Yeah, you're gonna keep going. Here's a line, Mrs. Halacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u194	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, despite what you have said as done by the Ministry of Education, I cannot be pleased with the answer, because the health data of Bulgarian children is becoming more and more frightening every year. According to a Global Report on nutrition of the United Nations for the last 15 years in Bulgaria, the percentage of obese children is growing, almost double. The foundation of obesity is bad eating habits, as well as lack of regular physical activity. Regarding the inclusion of Bulgarian children in healthy physical activity, I dare say that the governments of GERB in the last ten years have failed completely. One way to correct this mistake, I think, is by starting by the end of the mandate to take more and more measures to improve the physical activity of Bulgarian children and not to devote 2 BGN. for a child from kindergarten and 3 leva. for a student for sport per year, and you can also insert the National Strategy for the Child for the period 2019 - 2030, because Bulgaria is the only country in the European Union that is currently without an active strategic document for children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u195	Thank you, dear Mrs. Halacheva. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u196	Dear Mrs. Halacheva, later in my exhibition you may find answers to some of the questions you have asked. The National Program for Child Protection also includes activities planned and implemented within the National Programme for the Prevention of Chronic Diseases 2014 - 2020 aimed at increasing the physical activity of the population in the country, including children. A national study of health risk factors among the population of the Republic of Bulgaria, including children aged 10-19, was conducted in 2014. The results show that almost every day during the free time are physically active 36.5% of students, two or three times a week sports 33.8%, and every third student sports once a week, rarely or at all. To overcome the identified negative trends a number of health promotional activities have been implemented. A significant part of the activities to improve the physical activity of children and students are aimed at capacity building in medical professionals, including health offices in schools and kindergartens. Training courses and seminars, conferences, workshops and round tables for exchange of experience and knowledge of innovation in the field of promotion of physical activity were held. A guide for good practice of medical specialists has also been developed. Every year the Ministry of Health with the partnership of the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Youth and Sport, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Environment and Water and with the assistance of the Representation of the European Commission in Bulgaria organizes a national student competition. The competition is dedicated to the prevention of behavioral health risk factors related to healthy eating, physical activity, alcohol abuse and smoking, and supports the healthy lifestyle of young people. According to factor "Physical activity" 2788 sports events were held, 1706 tourist marches. The report on the health of citizens and the implementation of the National Health Strategy 2014-2020 annually includes an analysis of the health status of children and students with an assessment of their physical performance and an analysis of risk factors related to lifestyle. In addition to a major contractor, the Ministry is also a partner in the implementation of activities under the measure to increase the actual activity in the Strategy with a responsible contractor, the Ministry of Youth and Sports and Municipalities, together with the Ministry of Education and Science and Sports Federations, participates in the implementation of the Programme of Sport for Children with Disabilities and Children at Risk, under which 52 projects are funded and 1810 children are involved in sports activities. In conclusion, I would like to inform you that detailed information on the activities carried out is provided by the National Centre for Public Health and Analysis and the Ministry of Health in the reports on the implementation of the National Strategy for the Child 2008 - 2018 and is published in the reports on the implementation of the National Programme for Child Protection for the relevant year for this period on the website of the State Agency for Child Protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u197	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Mehmet, please make a statement on behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u198	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today is an extremely important international holiday in the mother tongue. Today, many ethnic and linguistic communities around the world will mark the day of birth, mother's speech, and will tell the whole world that linguistic diversity is immeasurable spiritual wealth. In the modern world, there are almost no unilateral countries to speak only one language. In a multimillion old Europe, the languages are over 170, and the living languages around the world are between 6 and 7 thousand. The European Parliament adopted a resolution to protect linguistic diversity and with the votes of the Bulgarian MEPs. Can the state ban a certain language? Yes, if the main ethnic group imposes its language on everyone else. Bulgaria is an example of this. The bad news is that we are not talking about totalitarian Bulgaria, which was conducting an assimilation policy against minorities, but about the modern, European, democratic, tolerant state of ours, which is also through laws adopted in 2020 in this House, bans the mother's word of some of our compatriots. Language, honourable Members, is a means of communication and at the same time an identification code. Language is our spiritual essence. In this sense, the ban on the use of mother tongue is absurd and inadequate for our time policy. This ban is not a civilisational measure, it is not a democratic act, it is not a European norm, it is an absurd remnant of criminal time and a continuation of the revival process. It is unlikely that in the Apostle's ideas of freedom and in its pure and holy Republic, in which everyone will be equal, there is a ban on the language of the neighbour, and in today's global world, in the context of European democracy, the restriction of the use of a language is an extremely antihuman policy. We monitor the reaction of the Foreign Ministry when it comes to Bulgarian cultural holidays, Bulgarian history or problems in the study of Bulgarian mother tongue for our minorities in neighbouring countries. In this sense, double standards are very visible and very impressive. Here is the place to say that it is not normal for the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and as a political party to finance the issuance of textbooks in Turkish. Yes, after 27 years lost in the democratic transition, we have officially established textbooks. Do you feel absurd, colleagues? It is ridiculous because we are all full Bulgarian citizens and together we build our common homeland. The sacred language of our ancestors unites us to our homeland and to our millennial history and culture. For us, language diversity has reached a level of European civilization, and cultural diversity is national wealth. Language is a means of communication, and to you dear colleagues, is language a means of discrimination? Studying mother tongue is also an extremely important measure to overcome illiterateness, but we also consider another gap in the current model of learning............................................................................................ Instead of cutting majors in various universities, the admission of students in the respective mother tongue should be increased......................................................................................................................................................... In connection with the new amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education and the possibility of regulation and implementation of state policy in this field, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is monitoring and monitoring this process. Ladies and gentlemen, we feel today's Mother tongue Day as a holiday filled with deep meaning. We congratulate all teachers in their mother tongues for their love, dedication, and an awkward mission to teach children Binguvi! We highly appreciate their labor in the name of keeping all of us connected to our roots. We appreciate their patriotism. From this tribune we also greet parents who realize the importance of this child, even with the official language, to know his mother tongue. We congratulate all artists and cultural figures who preserve the very traditions of the community! Our destiny has given us this land, which is sacred and common to all of us, and we live in this peaceful time, bearing our responsibility to our family and country. Happy Thanksgiving! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u199	Thank you, dear Mr. Mehmed. A declaration on behalf of a group. Here you are, Mr. Gechev, on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u200	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On 27 December 2019 Mr. Goranov, Minister of Finance, said that Bulgaria's economic growth for 2019 is one of the highest in Europe. On 30 October 2019 Mr. Goranov said during a meeting of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation that the expected economic growth for the next three years was 3.3% for each year. He stressed that in his words growth would be slightly lower than expected, i.e. to 3.3 "3.4%." For the following years, the cabinet Borisov 3 has pledged growth of gross domestic product "3.4% for 2020" for 2021. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, for 2022 The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. On September 5, 2019, Prime Minister Borisov said: The NSI's seasonal data show growth of 3.5% of gross domestic product in the second quarter of 2019 compared to the same period of 2018. We, as those responsible, said Mr. Borisov, are constantly trying to make people's lives better. I call on other politicians not to be so black-eyed, but to try to contribute to the growth of the Bulgarian economy. We have 3.5% GDP growth. Less black-eyed! Yes, however, the majority recently adopted a decision to enter the Eurozone waiting room in April. And all of a sudden, oh, heavens! On February 20th, the Vice President of the European Union, Valdis Dombrovskis, wrote: "We follow developments in Bulgaria. I haven't had a chance to discuss the issue with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov yet. Vladislav Goranov assured me that everything is continuing and the country is preparing for entry into the ERM-II, that is to say in the waiting room, perhaps not with the initial goal of the end of April, but a few months later. And we say, "Is there really no reason to delay?" Hasn't something happened in the last few days that requires a reason to delay? And the reason, ladies and gentlemen, we argue, is: manipulation of statistical data in order to mislead the Bulgarian people and mislead the European Union and its institutions. What's this about? January-November 2018 exports are 25 billion. 653 million. lv. I'm rounding up a tenth. January-November 2019 The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the The Commission therefore concludes This made an increase of 4,6% compared to 2018. To compare the period January-November 2018 compared to January-November 2017. The export growth was 3,2%. In other words, exports increase their dynamics by 1.4%. That's very good. Very interesting, however, the import situation, ladies and gentlemen. For the period January-November 2018, imports amounted to 27 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. EUR and in the same period of 2019 it decreased to 26 The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with This is extremely strange. Following the approach of comparisons with exports, here we come across the first difficult to explain logical and macroeconomic weirdness because January-November 2018 imports were 8.2% higher than the same period of 2017. So in 2017 it grew 8.2% and in 2019, supposedly when growth, it decreased. I'd say Alice in Wonderland! In the analytical presentation of the current account of BNB, imports of goods and services for January-November 2019 is 31 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of It turns out that in just two years the official data of NSI and BNB bring a dramatic reversal in the trend of imports, the pendulum of the dynamics of imports actually marked a magnitude of minus 10.5%. You will say that the increase in exports combined with the decrease in imports is a great combination. I hope so, as they say, but it's not! This is a dream for every macro-economicist if it were true, but, unfortunately, such a happy ending turns out to be probably a misunderstanding, or something worse, manipulative data, given the perplexing official data of NSI and BNB. Definitely disturbing is the data that as exports grow and imports decline, the final consumption of total companies and households is growing. To explain to the non-economicists as well. So it grows on average by 5% and something per year domestic consumption in the country, with the same dynamics of companies and households. Exports are growing and imports are falling. Excuse me, if domestic consumption grew and decreased imports, it had to reduce exports to have something to use. But I won't. Here and the freshman students ask themselves the question: what is it, because, as I said, there is no way with the logic of macroeconomics to explain these contradictions. Our suspicions are unlikely, but possible accidental omission of billions of data, or very likely deliberate manipulation, have deepened after seeing the following official information on BNB statistics. If you enter the press release of BNB from that day on the balance of payments on 19 February 2020, at 12:00 p.m. on page 3 in the last paragraph: The total errors and omissions in the net written: The article is negative in January-December 2019. 345 million. The BNB writes that they make a statistical error of 3 billion. 345 million. Euros! Do you realize what this is about? That's 6'7" per cent of gross domestic product. Last year, this statistical error was only 359 million. Euros. So the BNB says it's 10 times bigger. Either the BNB colleagues have not noticed this mistake, or it comes from incorrect information from customs and the Ministry of Finance, because, firstly, according to our estimates, at least 2 billion were not reported in imports. EUR, or about 4 billion. lv. According to our information, this is mainly due to unaccounted, most likely intentionally imported petroleum products for this amount I told you, of 4 billion. lv. And by re-evaluated, secondly, growth, which declared Borisov's government of 3.3% with those minus 4 billion. BGN, growth is in fact 0,8 "0.9%." Even if they try to find compensation with stocks in the economy that cannot be such a magnitude, growth is actually much lower than what is declared. And this is where the question arises: why is Mr. Borisov's government hiding information about the imports? Why is false information submitted in practice to the NSI and to the BNB so that higher growth than is the actual growth? Because we are not at all among the first countries of the European Union. We're crawling down the bottom of the European Union. We will end with this: Do you realize what will happen in the European Commission, in Eurostat and in the European Central Bank? This is why it is given backwards for the waiting room, because growth is not 3.3%, foreign investments are not so, domestic stocks are not like that, imports are radically different. Who are you lying to? Not only the Bulgarians, but you are lying to the European institutions. We want immediately, after hours, the relevant state institutions to come out and tell what the truth is with imports and, respectively, economic growth and other indicators. It is known to colleagues that in mid-April the government should provide statistical data under the Convergence Programme, mandatory every year. And let me inform you: this data goes to the excellent experts of Eurostat, to the experts of the European Central Bank. They are uploaded to the site and all experts from other Member States recalculate the information. It turns out that in May, based on what Mr. Borisov said the other day in connection with the API, some people will have to take him and the Minister of Finance on a megaphone and go to the cities of Bulgaria, and now I see that from today it is good to go to Barcelona, it will be very interesting, and to Brussels and announce how they have manipulated the data and why such results are obtained. Therefore, on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP because of this manipulation of data we want immediately the resignation of Prime Minister Borisov and the entire government. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u201	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. We continue with the questions to Minister Ananiev. A question from the National Representative Georgi Mihailov regarding the payment of previously executed haematological clinical pathways in the National Framework Treaty 2020 and the study of patients through PET-ST technology. Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u202	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Both questions are provided to me as information from colleagues on the health network. I took the liberty of making a reference even before parliamentary control began. My questions are very clear, I'd just like to hear your opinion. The first question You have already read, you have had the opportunity to gather information: in art. 338 there are things that, to put it mildly, as a professional, are not explained to me. This is that some clinical pathways upon early interruption are paid at 60%, others are paid with all their volume. I don't want to comment on what these clinical pathways are, what their financiency is, these are very serious questions. I want to understand: the onco-hematological and oncological pathways, which are assessed in this way upon their early completion, what is your opinion on the regulation of this problem, so to call it most elegant? The second question is related to AP No 36 (Ambulator procedure No 36). The limit of two PET scanners, of the construction and control of the therapeutic strategy in patients with very serious diseases........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ These are my first questions, Mr. Minister, and I will further develop my thesis on the possibility that the procedure offers me. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u203	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u204	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, dear Professor Mihailov! In relation to the question set out in the National Framework Treaty on Medical Activities 2020, a rate of payment of haematological clinical pathways in cases where the latter have been reported as the AP "Predictive implementation of activities on the relevant clinical path and included in the AP No 36 "Positron-Emissionary Tomography (RT scanner) limit that the National Health Insurance Fund pays up to two studies to a health insurance person with PET scanner per year, I inform you that the questions put were discussed during the negotiations on the anex to the National Framework Treaty 2020. During the discussions on these issues together with the Bulgarian Medical Union, the following was decided and joined the anex. First, the limit for AP No 36 is removed from the National Health Insurance Fund to pay up to two health insurance surveys per year. I think that's a direct answer to your question. Secondly, the National Health Insurance Fund and the Bulgarian Medical Association agreed with the principle that it is not mandatory in any case for a haematological disease that each health insured person should be reported on a clinical path with that minimum stay, but that this stay of hospital treatment may be shorter in order to ensure the necessary medical procedures of the diagnostic-medical algorithm. Instead of taking into account a clinical path with early execution in the field of medical oncology and haematology, outpatient procedures have been developed that do not require a sleepover hospital and their algorithm is performed within a few hours. In these cases, at the discretion of the treatment facility, the patient may be reported under AP No 6, AP No 7 or AP No 8, which provide the necessary research and therapeutic activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u205	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Mihaylov, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u206	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I don't know if you deliberately exchanged, but the first part of your response is actually very satisfactory. However, regarding the second, we have had many conversations with you and with your predecessors. You claim the annex is written and signed. I would like to call on you, as there will probably be further discussion of problems about the National Framework Treaty in 2021 You can't know this dynamic as a principal, you don't have to, but you can't lightly walk a person from a clinical path into a procedure. This is done only by people who have put in their creed not the care of the sick, but the financing of the hospital. Very low funding parameters for these pathways are low. I mean oncological and onco-hematological. If you can imagine that in very few of them we have talked to you about this, because you had an idea for the creation of a very financial clinical path, that is, the whole funding of oncology and haematology should be seriously reconsidered along with medicines. I allow myself here to say: both the European Council and many of our meetings, and you have taken into account the problem that there has been an extreme increase in drug spending. However, you, of course, do not have to know this as a principal, but there are specialists who know it. There are very specific indications. If you go to a forum, which is the same as the one of the American oncologists, which is held every year, it is evident that certain requirements for the use of high finance chemotherapy are needed for the patient. But what happens in the Republic of Bulgaria? I don't want to tell you! As a financier, you only suffer the consequences of this from the avalanche increase in cases that do not have strict clinical indications. That is to say, the whole rethinking of oncology funding should be seriously discussed, discussed unanimously, so that it can not come to the disparaging signals of colleagues who make them wonder how to effectively conduct the healing doctrine in such heavy patients. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u207	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. Mr. Minister, will you take the back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u208	Dear Professor Mihailov, in my speech I said that everything we have talked about under the National Framework Treaty 2020 - 2022 has happened together with the Bulgarian Medical Union. We accept that for this year in the part of the National Framework Treaty these are the opportunities provided by the National Health Insurance Fund as a budget. In the coming months, the budget procedure for 2021 and the three-year budget forecast will begin, with the development of the corresponding annex of the framework contract, which is three years old, in parallel with the budgetary process. So, you said nicely, we can look for consensus, analysis of the situation, and if there are really opportunities to improve this process, I am ready to go in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u209	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question is again by the National Representative Georgi Mihailov concerning problems with limiting the payment of residual drugs, which arose after the signing of the National Framework Treaty between the National Health Insurance Fund and the Bulgarian Medical Union for the period 2020 - 2022. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u210	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! This question has also been asked to me by the head of one of the largest oncology clinics in Bulgaria and is extremely serious. He put himself on the Health Commission several times, put himself on public notice. You also had conversations with us on it, but, unfortunately, what is happening is extremely worrying oncology specialists. I won't go into details. The procedure gives me the opportunity to further develop my thesis later, but I will only say a few things. The principle of the formation of doctrine in the treatment of cancer patients does not tolerate any deviations, as this puts the success of the doctrine at stake. It is not enough that there we use huge financial potential, which Bulgaria, for its pride, tried to provide to the Bulgarian patients, but the destruction of this doctrine, one of its postings is the density of therapy. The requirement to group patients on appropriate days with the same units of measurement in order to make the corresponding molecule and to spend the maximum is inappropriate. This is done in part with thousands of efforts, with horrifying organizational efforts of specialists in the designated healthcare institutions. In my opinion............................................................................................. But here we come to an absurdity. You, I always say, do not have to know as a principal. These are expert questions. The biological drugs, Mr. Minister, can't be mixed in any way! These are complex biological molecules. Two vials don't have the same one, they're not the same... They have the same biological effect on the body, but in no case, and this is written in the characteristic of the molecule, they cannot be mixed from one patient to another. The reactions that can happen, I do not want to comment on them here in the Chamber. My question is: after you have come to know the question that we have presented to you, what is your attitude towards solving it in real time on the territory of oncology hospitals in the Republic of Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u211	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u212	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, dear Professor Mihailov! The problem with the payment of unused residues of medicinal products was discussed in the negotiations of the National Health Insurance Fund with the Bulgarian Medical Union for the National Framework Treaty 2020. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 333, para. 1 agreed that anti-tumour medicinal products providing the primary treatment for malignant solid tumours and haematological diseases should be administered according to the scheduled regimens and patients should be taken on a time-frame that ensures the smallest excess of infusion forms. This schedule is validated by the attending clinic/compartment where treatment with infusion antitumor medicinal products is carried out. The medical establishment should have in its territory a pharmacy to satisfy the needs of the medical establishment with medicinal products that the National Health Insurance Fund pays outside the price of the clinical path and/or outpatient procedure. Medicinal products for systemic treatment of malignancies shall be prepared at the pharmacy of the appropriate medical establishment in the form of direct administration of the patient according to art. 37a, para. 1 and 2 of Ordinance No 28 of 2008 and the rules for good pharmaceutical practice in oncology. The hospital pharmacy shall keep a journal for the reconstitution of medicinal products for the treatment of oncological diseases according to Annex No 8e of Regulation No 4 of 2008 in which the data are recorded on a daily basis. In case a remainder of a medicinal product cannot be administered during its shelf life as specified in the Summary of Product Characteristics and all storage options are used by storage systems or other technical means, the residue shall be reflected in an inventory of the unused residues of medicinal products for the treatment of oncological/oncohematological diseases according to Annex No 8f of Regulation No 4 of 2008. Medicinal products intended for the treatment of residual oncological diseases are those whose primary packaging contains a dose of the active substance which does not provide the prescribed individual protocol therapeutic dose according to the dosage as per the established Summary of Product Characteristics. In this regard, the National Health Insurance Fund has drawn up a List of medicinal products under art. 262, para. 6, p. 2 of the Act on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine for the treatment of oncological diseases under protocol, paid beyond the value of medical services provided, where the formation of a remainder is acceptable, which is published on the website of the National Health Insurance Fund. Unfortunately, what you most cared about, I have to say it after you take the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u213	Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u214	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! It's a secret to me. You're a Fortune Teller if you can tell me what I want to hear and I'll hear it in a minute. I am deeply aware that you are the principal of the Ministry of Health and you are not obliged to know the details. Unfortunately, your answer is written by officials who are very far from the clinical condition in oncology and the needs that are present. I'll tell you just a few things I've said many times and you've answered me. I hope this time you'll answer me in a way that will satisfy me. The first thing is, you're talking about a pharmacy. You remember who the pioneers were in the reconstitution? This was the Hematology Hospital in Bulgaria. However, it turned out that I told you in a meeting and I remember your reply that Bulgaria is missing the hospital packages. All machines are broken when working with the individual packaging that we now have. Then the answer of the Ministry, which has bequeathed to you for years, is that we cannot force those who have the permission to use and distributors to import hospital packages. This is an answer that no child in healthcare can satisfy, as in 90% of the countries in the European Union these hospital packages are available and they will solve the problem of the so-called simple molecules you are talking about, of antitumor treatment, but for the complex, Mr. Minister, these are medicines that dissolve next to the patient's bed. God forbid, I've experienced it, to see an allergic reaction of a patient to dissolve it down at the pharmacy and wait for it to move from there. These are things that are not only financiers, but time-consuming. This cannot happen and does not fit into the product characteristics, i.e. a solution must be found between the Oncology Association, in the face of the professors, the colleagues who gave me this question to develop before you, and the National Health Insurance Fund. Here, I'll open a clamp. I think that now, in the forthcoming election of a governor, we must resolve this matter with the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. We ask questions that in 90% are the responsibility of the Cache. She conducts 90% of the health care budget, and you're in charge. You don't have to answer! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you, Madam President, I'm done. The manager of the Cashier has to answer, he's the operating director of the Cashier. So it gets a little bit like in the tower of Babylon we're talking about one thing, you don't have to be inside these problems, but the effect of the solution is not yet present. Therefore, I ask you, regardless of what you will say and what I want to hear now, to make this connection between oncologists and the National Health Insurance Fund so that the desired effect that is in the interests of cancer patients in the country can be achieved. Thank you, Madam President, for listening to me to the end.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u215	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihailov, this is an important topic. Here you are, Minister, and we'll listen to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u216	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Professor Mihailov, surely 100% will not satisfy you, but we have taken a serious step with the new framework contract. The National Health Insurance Fund shall pay unusable residues of medicinal products which are reflected in Annex No 8f of Regulation No 4 of 2008, up to 5% of the application of all health-insured persons by the contractor of the total active substance for the given medicinal products under ATC code of the month concerned, i.e. we have already adopted one rule which we believe is eligible to pay the Cassata and that this quantity is very difficult to upload above those 5%. This was also agreed with the Bulgarian Medical Union. The payment shall be made upon mandatory submission of information on the elements of the verification code, namely the product code, batch number, expiration date, serial number, to the accompanying medicinal products and the formed, used or unused residues of medicinal products. It is important to note that the Summary of Product Characteristics indicates the duration of the proven chemical and physical stability of medicinal products under the particular storage conditions specified by the manufacturer. The stability of residues of an unused product from a microbiological point of view is directly linked to its handling conditions. Work in a controlled and validated aseptic environment meeting the requirements of good pharmaceutical practice preserves the microbiological stability of residues of medicinal products and ensures their safe use in patients' therapy. In conclusion, I believe that the concerns expressed by you about creating opportunities for reducing the dose and changing the range of administration of medicinal products are unfounded, given that all of the texts laid down in the National Framework Treaty are discussed with the representatives of the Bulgarian Medical Union, the Expert Council on Activities Organization and Economy, the technology of medicines and hospital formation and the professional organization of hospital pharmacists in Bulgaria, and are in line with the rules of good pharmaceutical practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u217	Thank you, dear Minister. We continue with the next issue by the National Representative Valentina Naydenova on the policy of the Ministry of Health for effective management and control of the activities in the health offices in children's institutions and schools financed by public financial resources, defined by the state and municipal budgets and the need to update Regulation No 3 of 27 April 2000 on health offices in children's institutions and schools issued by the Minister of Health. Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u218	Thank you. Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! Very interesting are art. Art. 21 and art. 26 of the Health Act. In accordance with art. 21 of the Health Services Act are structures of the national health system in which medical and non-medical professionals carry out activities to protect and strengthen the health of citizens. Again in the same article the health offices are created in kindergartens and schools, and with the State Budget Act art. 26, para. 3 of the Republic of Bulgaria, the funding from the state and municipalities of the health activities for children and students and the equipment, consumables and implementation of the activities is determined annually also for the relevant year in these health offices opened under the Law. In accordance with art. 26 the requirements for the design and operation of the health offices, the order of their opening and the documentation they hold shall be determined by a regulation issued by the Minister of Health, in agreement with the Minister of Education and Science, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy and the Minister of Youth and Sport. My question to you, Mr. Minister, is as follows: what is the policy of the Ministry of Health for effective management and control of the activities in the health offices in children's institutions and schools financed by public financial resources, defined by state and municipal budgets, and will you update Ordinance No 3 of 27 April 2000 on health offices in children's institutions and schools?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u219	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u220	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Naydenova, health offices are objects of public use within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 9 of the Additional Provisions of the Health Act and as such are subject to state health control by the territorial structures of the Ministry of Health, and these are Regional Health Inspections. With regard to the specific question raised concerning the updating of Decree No 3 of 27 April 2000 on health offices in children's institutions and schools, the Ministry of Health has developed a bill amending and supplementing the Health Act, which provides for changes in the regulations of the health offices in the following guidelines concerning the provisions of art. Art. 26, Art. 120 of the Health Act: First of all, systematization and precision of the provisions governing the requirements of the health offices, including the precision of the subject matter of the health cabinet regulation, is proposed; Secondly, existing contradictions and duplications in the legal regulation of the activities carried out in health offices and the mechanism for financing the activities of health offices in municipal and state kindergartens, municipal and public schools and social services are removed; Thirdly, on a proposal from the Ministry of Education and Science, it is envisaged that the activities carried out in the health offices can also be carried out by health institutions under contract with municipalities, respectively with the State or the owner of the private kindergarten, school or social service, and not as it is at present only by natural persons, doctors and/or other medical professionals. The interaction between health care professionals and other outpatient and hospital care professionals, especially in the case of children with chronic diseases, will lead to more accessible, integrated and coordinated care. The Ministry of Health is working actively to finalize the drafting of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Act. Following the adoption of the proposed amendments to the Health Act relating to the regulation of requirements for health offices, the development of a completely new regulation for health offices is planned in a short time. In addition, I inform you that the activities carried out by doctors and other medical professionals in the health offices in kindergartens and schools are regulated at the level of interest. 120, para. 1 of the Health Act, and in this regard there is no risk to the lives and health of those who are served in health offices. In conclusion, I inform you that the Ministry of Health will take all necessary action to ensure the health of adolescents led by the belief that investment in creating conditions for the growth of a physically and mentally healthy young generation is an investment in the economy and welfare of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u221	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Naydenova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u222	Dear Minister, thank you for the answer, but since we have another question that will come up a little later, it is still in terms of updating Regulation No 3, and Regulation No 26, I would like to share with you the following. Perhaps today's question, however careless it may seem at first glance, I have had the greatest pleasure of these questions that I have asked you about all this time since we have been in Parliament. The reason is this. The national health system has been in extremely difficult condition so far and we all know what the consequences are, as if for all this time, since you are a minister, and we, the MPs, have been constantly dealing with a part of it. These were medical institutions under the Law on Medical Institutions, these are medicinal products in human medicine, and as if this element in the current definition, according to the Health Act on the National Health System, we were missing exactly the health offices registered under the Law on Health and, in particular, kindergartens, nurseries, health offices in schools where there are, I was going to say, our people in quotes. These are health care professionals, something you are also responsible for, and we as MPs also need to take care of them. It is a pity that with the protests these medical specialists reminded themselves, but we concluded that we should see what was going on there. Because until now, I say again, we have dealt with the national health care system purely in its healing effect, the fast, urgent, which concerns people's lives and health, but where it concerns promotions, we have only satisfied ourselves with child and mother health care, but this subject, which we are talking about now in my question, overlaps and is more specific with other systems. In this case, it overlaps with the Ministry of Education, but the health system overlaps with other systems under the Youth and Sports Act with the respective Ministry, with the Social Ministry, which we will continue to watch. Why am I telling you this? Because when we looked into this issue, we always follow the money, and you are a specialist in this area, and I found that in Regulation No 3, para. 7 says that the financing of health offices is provided within the general budget of the children's establishment or school. In short, delegated budgets are in the hands of directors. They can also define activities. I stumbled into my work as a representative of the National Assembly, which are outside the mandatory activities of medical professionals, they perform others as babysitters, so even some responsibilities of the pedagogists something I will discuss perhaps further. I think I will not withdraw the next question that will come perhaps in a week so that we can talk even more seriously about this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u223	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u224	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Dr. Naydenova! I do not wish to comment on whether we have delayed this process very much. But the fact is that it is already a priority project for the Ministry of Health. This draft law is already in the final phase, we are ready for a quick change in exactly these parameters and guidelines that you are talking about, the amendment of Regulation 3. Furthermore, because we mentioned healthcare professionals, you know that, at my request in the National Framework Treaty, we tried to regulate a mechanism on which to guarantee a mechanism for achieving decent salaries. Of course, that can't happen at once. But when there is a mechanism, when there is a long-term perspective of its implementation, i.e. the sustainability of this mechanism, I think we will come to a point where, indeed, as with teachers, we have been able to turn things around and you see that the interest in the teaching profession is much, much greater, God forbid, we will come to this point in the field of medicine and, as of course, for health professionals, let us not forget about the Bulgarian doctors and, at all, all who work in the medical institutions in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u225	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the second question by Mrs. Naydenova on the implementation of the regulations for coordination of social security systems EC No 883 of 2004 and EC No 987 of 2009 for Bulgarian citizens after the exit of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union. Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u226	Dear Minister, after 1 February 2020, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland is no longer a member of the European Union. According to information from the Embassy of the Republic of Bulgaria in London to acquire a right under the UK sedentary scheme, more than 140 thousand have applied. Bulgarian citizens, which is not the final figure of residents in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland Bulgarian citizens. According to the regulations on coordination of social security systems, respectively, with numbers 883, 987, Bulgarian citizens residing in European countries, members of the European Union and in countries under existing bilateral social security agreements, have rights in cross-border healthcare and non-cash compensation in kind in cross-border situations. I ask you to answer the following question: what action has the Ministry of Health taken to protect the rights of Bulgarian citizens residing in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland in the field of non-cash benefits in kind under these regulations after the withdrawal of the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland from the European Union, and what legislative measures will be taken to acquire and/or restore the health insurance rights of Bulgarian citizens who have resided until 1 February 2020 under art. 129 of the Health Insurance Act and those who continue to reside in the United Kingdom?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u227	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u228	Honourable President, Members of the National Assembly! Dear Dr. Naydenova, Ministry of Health participates in the activities of the inter-departmental working group "Brexit" of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, within which is implemented the Action Plan of Bulgaria implementing the Agreement on the Withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union. The agreement signed and ratified in 2020 on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union has achieved guaranteeing the rights of European Union citizens, at the same time, of course, and of the United Kingdom in the area of free movement and coordination of social security systems during the transitional period until 31 December 2020. Until the end of this period, there will be no changes relating to the access to health of Bulgarian citizens residing in the United Kingdom, as coordination mechanisms will continue to apply until 31 December this year. With the entry into force of the United Kingdom's Withdrawal Agreement from the European Union with effect from 1 February 2020, the British European Health Insurance Cards and all other forms for trilateral medical care and non-cash benefits in kind, in cross-border situations under Regulation EC No 83204 and Regulation (EC) No 987209 remain applicable until the end of the transitional period provided for in the Agreement, namely until 31 December 2020. This means that from 1 February 2020 until 31 December 2020, European citizens residing in the territory of the United Kingdom, respectively, will continue to benefit from the same volume and scope in their access to health care and the possibility of using the European Health Insurance Card if urgent and urgent assistance is required. Citizens of the United Kingdom will also continue to freely use those documents in the Republic of Bulgaria until the end of this period. The National Health Insurance Fund will continue to fulfil its financial commitments to the United Kingdom regarding the application of the provisions of the regulations guaranteeing the rights of Bulgarian citizens during their stay in the UK. Following the expiry of the transitional period of the Agreement, the rules on coordination of the social security system will not apply in relations between Member States and the United Kingdom. For this reason, Member States and the European Commission are currently discussing the possibilities for concluding an agreement with the United Kingdom. The principles of non-discrimination and reciprocity that should be applied as a basis for the movement of natural persons will be leading in the negotiations. In the possible negotiation of new rules during the transitional period, the Bulgarian competent institutions, including the National Health Insurance Fund, will be ready to take measures for their implementation in a timely manner. At present, a framework position of the Republic of Bulgaria has been drawn up and adopted, which outlines the specific areas in which Bulgaria should work to achieve the most comprehensive and close cooperation possible between the European Union and the United Kingdom after the withdrawal. With regard to healthcare, Bulgaria will insist that the entire material scope of the coordination regulations, including the part on healthcare, be included in the future agreement between the European Union and the United Kingdom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u229	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u230	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I think I'm not the only one, but my colleagues are happy with the answer. It would be nice for Bulgarian citizens to be aware of this and will do the Ministry of Health an honor, however little this Ministry is, to have on its website the relevant information that every Bulgarian citizen will be able to obtain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u231	Thank you. Mr. Secretary? We continue with a question by the National Representative Dora Yankova about improving access to pharmacies and improving the quality of pharmaceutical care. Here you are, Mrs. Yankova, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u232	Dear Minister, Madam President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! My question is about improving access to pharmacies and improving the pharmaceutical care "one commitment," which was signed in the Program of the Government, Boyko Borisov's third government, as a commitment. As I closely monitor the implementation of this programme, it is recorded in Objective 121 that the government is committed to implementing a policy to improve access to pharmacies and improve the quality of pharmaceutical care. And here, with several measures,.455, a commitment is made to create a National Pharmacy Card to identify and plan the needs of the population of access to medicinal products, providing pharmacies as an instrument for overcoming regional imbalances. Under Measure 456, the government has committed itself to introducing measures and incentives for active pharmacies to expand their activities in the settlements where pharmacies are scarce and measure 457 to introduce incentives to ensure day-to-day access to medicinal products for citizens in areas where there is a shortage of pharmacies with 24-hour working arrangements, at least at the administrative centre of the district. And since I am aware, Mr. Minister, that the problem that I am putting is not now, it stands for years on the agenda of the Bulgarian state, the Bulgarian governments, and especially with poverty, the demographic problems, the depopulation of the settlements, and especially with the people who are becoming poorer, especially in these small settlements, where there is no economic development, it is now with a much sharper sound. The question itself concerns about 2 million Bulgarian citizens. They live exactly in settlements where there are no pharmacies. Along with that, I am aware of other conclusions that flow from your statements that our country is at one of the top pharmacies per capita in Europe, and that is good, I would not want it to stand in the way here, this process has taken place in larger cities. But the more severe conclusion is that we are in one of the last places on access to pharmaceutical services at exactly that 2 million. Bulgarian citizens. You started the first steps, my question is like politics, like asking: what are you going to do? What does the government do, albeit in its last year, to implement the government's programme and commitment to Bulgarian citizens?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u233	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u234	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yankova, in connection with the policies set out in the government management programme for improving access to pharmacies and improving the quality of pharmaceutical care the Ministry of Health prepared, the government adopted the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement The Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, which is currently in the National Assembly. It provides for a package of regulatory changes that should lead to more optimal access for citizens to medicinal products by creating a National Pharmacy Card. The main objective of its implementation is to identify the needs of the population of access to medicinal products provided by pharmacies and identify the areas, municipalities, settlements with a shortage of pharmacies. By drawing up the National Pharmacy Card, taking into account the territorial distribution of pharmacies in the country, their distribution according to the demographic structure of the population and according to the activities they carry out, it will be possible to illustrate the access to pharmaceutical care available at present and identify the areas in which this care is insufficient. In addition, an assessment of the needs of Master Pharmacists and Assistant Pharmacists working in pharmacies and a comparison with available medical professionals in this area will be carried out. Where, on the basis of the National Pharmacy Card, a shortage of pharmacies and activities they carry out will be established, measures will be applied to stimulate the provision of medicinal products, and in such locations a second or subsequent address of pharmacies authorised to trade in medicinal products will be available. The aim of the proposal is to stimulate active pharmacies to expand their activities in settlements where there is a shortage of pharmacies, most often small settlements where there is no pharmacy. The disclosure of a second and next address of a pharmacy will require smaller investments and less costs for pharmacies, as the administrative procedure for their disclosure is mostly needed.. The costs of the administration are very low, respectively and the fees for the service will be minimal. The second/next address will not be required to work master pharmacists full-time, and the working time will be allowed to be no less than two days a week at 4 hours. The proposed legal changes related to the assessment of the needs of the population from access to pharmacies and the measures described to improve the access of citizens to medicinal products will result in a clear definition of the minimum needs of activities provided by pharmacies and stimulating the approach of pharmacies to patients in small settlements. The changes proposed by the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine do not lead to interference in the free competitive environment in which pharmacies operate and do not create administrative restrictions. Their aim is to optimize citizens' access to medicinal products and reduce the administrative burden on retail medicinal products. The Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement was published by the Ministry of Health for Public Discussion in the period August 20, 18 September 2019. By Decision No 7 of 9 January 2020, the Council of Ministers approved it and submitted it to the National Assembly for consideration and acceptance. On 13 February 2020, after a discussion, the same was adopted at the first vote in the Committee on Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u235	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Yankova, come in for two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u236	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister! I realize that my question from November last year goes along with those decisions that the Council of Ministers has been making so far. Yes, at the end of last year you made a decision about the National Pharmacy Card, but I am interested: when have you set the goal of finalizing this national pharmacy card as a document? Because I remember how many years the National Health Card goes, and it's never accepted. Parallelly, this discussion opens up, and I follow it closely. Both the Association of pharmacies and the Pharmaceutical Union and the citizens and mayors have many ideas that are not just ideas related to a second and next address, but there are many things that are flexible and are offered. Here my first question in relation to this policy is: when, as a chronology, how did you sign your time that the National Pharmacy Card will be accepted? For extremely many people from the district cities, including the district of Smolyan, which I represent, there is a shortage of 24-hour pharmacies. In government policy you have also made such a commitment to not answer me, so my second question is: what incentives, what measures and what will be done so that at least in the district city there will be a 24-hour pharmacy? I'm constantly confronted by people after 10:00 p.m., who wander or go, stand where there is a multiprofile hospital, at the entrance of the ward and seek medicine. They're gone! It's got to be flexible. These questions excite me as supplementarys and please take them because I remember that your predecessor made a commitment here in the Chamber two years ago, and we expected something to happen in the middle of the cabinet. It didn't happen! I hope you will start this process and it will be useful for Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u237	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u238	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Yankova, two questions to be asked, frankly. We are not waiting for the final adoption of the Law in the National Assembly. And we are currently working on the creation of the Pharmacy Card, so as soon as possible after the adoption of the Law we will finalise this activity as well. In terms of day-to-day pharmacies. As a matter of fact, I also have had to go around Sofia for the last two weeks, but I would like to tell you that in the process of preparing and coordinating the PID of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, we have entered into very serious conversations with the public organisation of pharmacists. They expressed very serious concerns, especially from the point of view of the human resource, in order to create some organization for day-to-day activity. However, I have some reservations about this final opinion of theirs, and I think we should take advantage of this debate between first and second readings to continue so that we can find some way out of this issue too. It was no accident that I didn't answer you in the initial speech because we didn't have a final result or a final proposal. We are going to have a debate and I will ask all parliamentary groups in Parliament to take an active part in this particular part and not only in it, of course, but in this part of the bill. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u239	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Yankova for attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u240	Dear Madam President, dear Ministers! Minister Ananiev, I wish to be an optimist I know your business qualities as an administrative leader, now and as a politician minister. The first steps have been started - two million Bulgarian citizens, you know, their lives are more expensive. I see people going from Smolyan Municipality to Banite Municipality 15 settlements have no pharmacy, and I start: Bostina, Livochevo, Hasovitsa, Pisnitsa, Momchilovtsi, Kutella, Vievo, Malka Arda, Oryahovets, Katranitsa, Davidkovo, many are settlements, and that is 30 km! These people take the bus there, to have two to three family doctors, these people once by bus go to a family doctor to Smolyan or to Banite, the second time, go to a pharmacy. In them, public services in healthcare become more expensive. I have considered it, from BGN 4 to BGN 16. a month. And they're retired, they're poor people. We cannot yet do this to increase their quality of life, which is why this is an extremely responsible task for 2 million Bulgarian citizens. I hope, together with this discussion now, for the second and next address of yes, in the Banite it will work, in Zlatograd it will work, in Devin it will work. But there are large municipalities such as Smolyan, Kardzhali and Targovishte, where the settlements are from 40 to 80, and will be also difficult. Perhaps, in the law itself, we, as Members of Parliament, will also enjoy other flexible forms, but in the end you are in charge of this comprehensive political process. I don't want it to be piloting, I want it to be bolder! And second of all, I'd like to talk about it. The pharmaceutical union is a public benefit organization. I recently listened to the newly elected chairman who said that the pharmacy has a social role. I wish that they would understand that because when we are looking for the 24-hour pharmacy, yes, it is much more expensive, but there is some internal solidarity that they should sign each other and make as a commitment to the citizens of these cities where there are no 24-hour pharmacies. And I very much insist: make a public Internet platform.. whether the Drug Executive Agency or the Ministry itself will guarantee it, but to have publicity where the pharmacy is located, its address, when it works and if they will rotate in the district city, people will know where the day-to-day is. It's happened to me here, too, in the center of Sofia, to look for a pharmacy, and from the entire center it has to go somewhere in the area of Street. "Cherkovna" and "Cherkovna" Str. "Oborishte" to find a 24-hour pharmacy. This publicity for the city of Sofia is also missing. The problems are many, catch them responsibly and seriously as a commitment. This is almost a third of Bulgarian citizens who are waiting for a fair management decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u241	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. There is a question from the National Representative Kolyo Milev about the specialized hospital for active treatment of pulmonary diseases. Here you go, Mr. Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u242	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Ministers! My question to Minister Ananiev is about the problems with the liquidation of a specialized hospital for active treatment of pulmonary diseases. Dear Minister Ananiev, in connection with the outstanding liquidation process and the need to solve the case with the building fund of the Specialized Hospital for active treatment of pulmonary diseases - Sliven, I ask for your answer to the question: how far has the procedure reached to resolve the problem of winding up and what are your intentions to restore the building fund and the terrain around it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u243	Thank you, Mr. Minev. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u244	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Milev! By decision of the sole owner of the capital of a specialized hospital for active treatment of pulmonary diseases, Sliven, since 2010 the company has been terminated by liquidation. The process of the liquidation procedure is difficult for several reasons: lack of cash of the company, non-residential attitude to the property and documentation of the company by the originally designated persons for liquidators and lack of active action on their part to complete the process of liquidation. For these circumstances, an alert has been sent to the Prosecutor's Office by the liquidator who was appointed after the release of the previous persons and a prosecutor's file of the District Prosecutor's Office in Sliven has been formed in connection with unlawful acts under the liquidation procedure. The claim has ended with a decree refusing to initiate pre-trial proceedings. The Ministry of Health has taken action to change and choose a new liquidator to accelerate and successfully complete the liquidation process. The new liquidator was entered on the company's account in the Commercial Register on 29 January 2020. The hospital owns 38 buildings. There are actions by Sliven Municipality to investigate and issue regulations for buildings, as they are in poor condition due to the lack of funds in the company to manage them and because the liquidation process continues in a significant period. There are also provisions for conservation actions for the main hospital building, which has the status of real cultural value. Significant funds are needed to rebuild and strengthen the building. The Ministry of Health shall not provide targeted capital funds within the meaning of art. 100 of the Law on medical establishments of companies which do not carry out medical activities. Therefore, it remains possible for the company to order the main hospital building through the eligible forms of transfer of ownership to another entity. The same is a cultural value of local importance and its maintenance as such is not in the capacity of the medical establishment. The area on which the buildings of the medical establishment are located is not owned by the company but is state owned and managed by the regional governor of Sliven. The latter has taken action to develop a draft to amend the detailed planning plan. The amendment project aims to divide the property, to set up a larger number of regulated land properties and to change their purpose from a hospital complex to a more general arrangement allowing public service activities and housing. During the verification of RZI, Sliven, a number of pits of unknown shape, construction and materials used for their construction have been found to be present in the yard adjacent to the hospital's territory, where hazardous waste, biological materials, etc. were buried in the past. In this regard, the following activities need to be carried out prior to the initiation of a procedure to amend the existing detailed planning plan: - expert assessment of the terrain situation and assessment of the risk to people and the environment in carrying out activities on the specified terrain; - the safe collection and treatment of buried hazardous waste in strict compliance with the current requirements of the Waste Management Act and its regulations; - subsequent treatment and decontamination of hazardous waste sites used. The Ministry of Health has informed the regional governor of Sliven in writing of the circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u245	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Milev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u246	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, thank you for your detailed answer, but this saga is still going on. It has been for 10 years " 2010" and, as you can see, many problems arise even in relation to other ministries. I ask most strongly on behalf of all citizens and guests of Sliven that this matter be resolved at last, as the region itself is in such an imprudent state that it does not raise, and creates many conditions, as you have said, both for accidents and for idleness, which may be linked in time and with criminal actions. So I believe in your attitude on this matter and finally it is decided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u247	Thank you, dear Mr. Milev. There will be no duplicate, Mr. Secretary. A question from the National Representative Spas Panchev about ambulances and cars offering transport for medical purposes. Here you go, Mr. Panchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u248	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, dear colleagues, dear ministers! I'd like to say a few good words about emergency care. What the state is doing, you are supporting the Ministry is a good service for Bulgarian citizens and for the most part, although not there are good cars with the good teams it has, the help that is shown to the Bulgarian citizens is at a good level. Unfortunately, along with this, I would like to share with you things that I notice in everyday life and hear from Bulgarian citizens as a complaint that many private companies have activities similar to the activities of Emergency Medical Services, and offer cars, medical transport teams to needy citizens with some cars that are not equipped well, without the necessary teams, without doctors, most often with people who have made quarterly courses and are therefore trying to offer medical assistance. Even a case like that a while ago in a military hospital, an ambulance brings in a sick man who dies on the way. They dump the body in front of emergency services and leave. The department's been able to find out where the car was registered by the license plate. Turns out it's registered in a Roma neighborhood, but they can't find out or maybe later the person who did the work was found. Vehicles which are not well equipped without the necessary disinfection, without complying with the requirements for medical care, shall be allowed to carry out such assistance. If you look at the websites on the Internet, there are hundreds of such companies, in each hospital you can see business cards of dozens of companies offering such help. My question to you, Mr Minister, is: what is the control that you have in this regard, the Ministry of Health, in order to maintain the necessary requirements for such activity and, secondly, does the Ministry provide for any legislative change to resolve these issues? Because I do not know how to have a legislative framework that regulates the activities of cars for medical care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u249	Thank you, dear Mr. Panchev. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u250	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Panchev, provisions concerning registration, use, carrying out of ambulances and their traffic are contained in the Road Traffic Act. These are Articles 91, 92, 140 and other Articles thereof; Ordinance No I-45 of 2000 on registration, reporting, suspension and entry into service, suspension, suspension and restoration of the registration of motor vehicles and trailers withdrawn from them, and the order for the provision of data on registered road vehicles and Ordinance No I-141 of 18 September 2002 on the conditions and procedures under which a special mode of movement is used by motor vehicles issued by the Minister of Interior; the Health Act, the Health Act; Ordinance No 25 of 1999 on emergency medical care; Ordinance No 3 of 2017 on the establishment of medical standard I know I have listed many regulations, but I have done so intentionally because in your speech you have questioned that there is no regulatory regulation of this activity. All these documents to one extent or another concern the problems that you just shared. The Ministry of Health fully controls the ambulances of the emergency medical system, which are of particular colour: the main colour of the car.. white; additional color. orange; orange light-emitting strip 40 cm wide, enveloping the entire car at the height of the side door handles; inscription.Emergency medical assistance.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In addition to this standard, external design, specific decoration, marking and familiarization signs only use emergency medical centres and are used for emergency services by mobile teams of emergency medical centres. The ambulances of the emergency medical system shall be registered in accordance with the provisions of the Road Traffic Act and Regulation No I-141 of 2002 on the conditions and arrangements under which motor vehicle special traffic mode is used and are vehicles benefiting from a special traffic regime. Another part of the cars registered as vehicles intended for the transport of sick ambulances are those owned by hospitals, medical centres and others, registered or authorised to operate under the Law on Medical Institutions. They are used to carry out hospital-specific activities, including medical activities related to the transport of patients to another hospital; transport where necessary to carry out researches and others. The listed health care facilities, hospitals, outpatient care facilities and others, registered or authorised to carry out certain medical activities under the Medical Services Act, may perform these medical activities in their own specialized vehicles as well. The rest of the vehicles registered as special purpose vehicles for the carriage of patients owned and operated by sole traders and legal entities other than medical establishments and used only for the transport of sick or difficult persons under § 1, item 1. 9 of the Additional provision of the Health Act, are public bodies and as such are subject to registration in the Regional Health Inspections under the terms and conditions of Regulation No 9 of 2005 on the conditions and procedures for establishing and maintaining a public register of public bodies controlled by regional health inspections. In addition, I should point out that the Law on Medical Institutions and other implementing regulations regulate entities engaged in medical activities and providing medical assistance. For the infringement of those provisions, penalties are also provided for and the infringements are established by acts drawn up by officials appointed by the Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Medical Supervision Agency and criminal decrees shall be issued by the Executive Director of the Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u251	Thank you, dear Minister. Questions are important and we always give the answerer a little more time. You have the floor, dear Mr. Panchev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u252	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. It is true that there is regulation in the Road Traffic Act. For me and for the sick, more importantly, was the control that the Ministry, the Ministry's employees, the relevant Inspectorate made of the extent to which those who perform such activities had the opportunity and the right to carry it out. Because when people see that there is an ambulance or an ambulance, they think that these are prepared people and a team of doctors who can provide help, trust and go with them. What is happening is the most common fact that there is no doctor, that there is no sister, and there is one person who says that he has a medical education, and he has actually completed some course that he cannot provide if necessary in the movement of the car, the necessary assistance. Not one and two are the cases where these cars drive sick to abroad. I am not talking about that one such course costs the sick between two and ten thousand levs to be driven, but this is done with unemployed cars and without staff in the car, which can provide assistance if necessary. I do not comment on the fact that in some of the cars that carry such assistance, and it is good that the Minister of Home Affairs is here, such signals are there, not only such activity is being done, but also drugs being sold, drugs being distributed, migrants are being driven all things that really need to be controlled in order to avoid accidents. Thank you for what you answered, but I think there are a lot of things the Ministry has to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u253	Thank you, Mr. Panchev. Hole, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u254	Dear Mr. Panchev, it was no accident at the beginning of my speech that I gave a full description of what the ambulance was like in the emergency services centers. There I can guarantee you 100% that all necessary requirements, both for equipment, equipment and staff, and for attitude, with some rare exceptions, of course, are available. As for the other vehicles that you mentioned, I answered in my question. Since there is a Regulation No I-141, which lays down the terms and conditions for registration and granting of a special regime of work, it is indeed to my colleague, the Minister of Interior, where all the requirements for these cars are laid down. So if they are registered and in accordance with this regulation, there should be no problem. As I said in my speech, in addition to going by the order of this regulation, they are also registered by our territorial authorities. Anything else that's out of regulation, outlaw, is maybe some black business. It's the only way I'd take it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u255	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question to Minister Ananiev is from the MP Lyubomir Bonev about the state, material base and working conditions of the doctors in the Emergency Medical Centers on the territory of Pernik district. You have the floor, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u256	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Ministers! Mr. Minister, this is my third question to you. The territory of Pernik district operates five emergency centres in the municipalities of Pernik, Radomir, Trun, Zemen and Breznik. Despite the many questions to you about their condition, they continue to have outdated equipment, which is also extremely insufficient. There is a shortage of ambulances and specialists, the breakthroughs of the Emergency Centers in small municipalities are deepening. The Center for Emergency Medical Care in Pernik works normally only because it is located in the building of the Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment. There are doctors in Tran, Zemen, Breznik and Radomir who are not mobile when the ambulance is available. Therefore, the access of the inhabitants of the small municipalities is extremely difficult not only to hospital but also to emergency care. Despite all requests to improve the level of emergency assistance on your part and the Director of the Centre for Emergency Medical Assistance in Pernik, people are often unable to receive adequate assistance. In this regard, Mr. Minister, my question to you is: what measures have been taken to improve the material base and the working conditions of doctors in the Emergency Medical Centers in Pernik district? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u257	Thank you. You have the floor, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u258	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Bonev! The Emergency Medical Center was established in 1995 by Decree No 195. The centre is structured with five branches, as you said, for emergency medical assistance, discovered in the cities of Pernik, Radomir, Zemen, Breznik and Trun. In order to ensure urgent medical care at the Center are structured eight mobile medical teams, one transport medical team and four fixed teams, revealed in the branches where there are no hospital care facilities with exposed emergency rooms. For the implementation of the activity CSM Pernik is equipped with 21 ambulances: 10 of them are basic, with which mobile teams perform their daily duty, and 11 are spare. 13 ambulances were purchased in 2007 - 2009, two were purchased in 2015, two in 2019 and four in 2020. The Centre's management allocated the available ambulances according to the ground conditions to each emergency care subsidiary. The distribution of two ambulances to each subsidiary outside the town of Pernik allows adequate emergency medical care to be provided to the serviced population at any time of the day. The available medical equipment in ambulances and stationary teams is sufficient for diagnostic and resuscitation actions. In each ambulance is available an ECG apparatus, defibrillator, mechanical ventilation apparatus, aspirator, resuscitation bag, oxygen installation, glucomer, pulsoxymeter. The wrong impression has been created that the available medical equipment is old and depreciated, but due to the low workload in subsidiaries of Pernik's type, it is completely viable and usable. Analyzing the state of the material base and human resources in the emergency medical care system, concrete measures were taken by the Ministry of Health. In line with the objectives set out in the concept of the development of emergency medical care and in the National Health Strategy, for overcoming the personnel deficit in the system every year, the staff funds in the Emergency Medical Centers are increased, with the increase of 66% compared to 2014. The remuneration budget was further increased by 17% by 2019. In 2020, the trend is the increase in staff remuneration in the Emergency Medical Centers to reach 100% compared to 2014, which will achieve the objective of the Concept. As a result of the measures taken to significantly improve pay, there is a positive trend towards increasing the number of persons employed in the Emergency Medical Centers. In 2019, seven doctors, 10 health care professionals and three drivers were appointed to a service contract at the Emergency Medical Center. In order to improve the conditions for the treatment of emergency conditions under the Project "Improvement of the conditions for the treatment of emergency conditions', training will be carried out on the most modern principles for the treatment of emergency conditions of medical staff and drivers throughout the entire emergency care system. At the moment, 1160 medical specialists and drivers have been trained, including from the Emergency Medical Center, Pernik, four doctors, three healthcare professionals and four drivers. To improve the material base under the Project "Support for the development of the emergency medical care system" there will be construction of new, renovating and reconstruction of old buildings in which the Emergency Medical Centers are located and a complete replacement of the fleet and medical services in it. According to the project CSM, Pernik has received four new fully equipped ambulances, two more are to be obtained by the end of March. A new building is planned in the courtyard of the district hospital, where the administration of the Center and the emergency services branch will be located. For the rest of the branches in the cities of Radomir, Zemen, Breznik and Trun is envisaged the reconstruction and reconstruction of existing buildings. To date, the Ministry of Health is conducting a procedure under the order of the Public Health Act for the selection of a contractor for construction activities and construction supervision for the sites covered by the Project. In particular, a public contract for the selection of a contractor for the construction and installation activities for the structure of the Emergency Medical Center was announced for Pernik district. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u259	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u260	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, at the beginning of asking the question, I told you that this is my third question. For the third time we get a relatively formal answer, and this time we realized that they increased the number of ambulances by two. This is from 2018. I'm not putting the crisis in Pernik into the context of my question. I'm just asking you about the Medical Center because I see you're at least trying to make some effort on the part of the Ministry. It seems the problem lies elsewhere, Mr. Minister. Already in 2018, we requested a check of the head of the Emergency Centre in Pernik, but no such check has been made. In the local media there were speeches and publications from doctors. I have no doubt that the doctors in emergency care are wonderful. Here we refer to the following: on the one hand, we have an experience from the Ministry to help the Emergency Center in Pernik and at all to all emergency centers in the area, which is commendable, you are from this area and should at least care for it, so I still pay attention to you when the problem is not in the Ministry or when you are trying to do something about this area, and at the Emergency Centre in Pernik things are obviously not happening, in the end we are obliged to ensure the service of all citizens in the territory of Pernik and of all Bulgarian citizens. I am returning to this again from 2018 and we are expecting an inspection to date. Why is this happening, and why is there such discontent among the staff with the boss? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u261	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u262	I'm making a commitment, probably in the middle of a lot of work, probably that moment I missed. I'll see if there are any personnel problems, any management and administrative problems, I'll send a check and then I'll fill you in on the results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u263	Thank you, dear Minister. The last question to Minister Ananiev is from the MPs Georgi Gokov, Philip Popov, Anastas Popdimitrov, Vasil Antonov, Vesela Lecheva, Krum Zarkov and Stoyan Mirchev concerning coordinated treatment against insects (destimation) for the Danube municipalities. You have the floor, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u264	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Our question is about one such problem: every year, when to a higher extent, when to a lower extent, the problem with mosquitoes and other viruses carrying viruses that can affect human and animal health and their population in cross-border regions between Bulgaria and Romania, the problem is serious. There are many reasons for the problem, including the lack of coordination in the treatment of insects, on the one hand, between Bulgaria and Romania, i.e. on both sides of the Danube River and, on the other hand, between Danube municipalities. So far, there is no sustainable solution to the problem. Uncoordinated actions are ineffective, and this creates a serious risk to public health in municipalities along the Danube River, as well as problems for business in these municipalities. Problems are created in health care as well. At the same time, municipalities find it difficult to provide funds from municipal budgets to carry out activities for mass treatment against insects, and this leads to the inability to coordinate joint actions to tackle the problem and also to inefficiently spend financial resources. We need optimization of the disinfecting process in order to increase the effect with lower costs. Here I have to make a detour to tell you, Minister, that this problem is posed almost every year by the MPs from the Danube municipalities. This year, we have decided that all our colleagues will be involved in this matter and that he will find a solution. Before we asked the question, we were thinking about who to ask it to. Perhaps you will be the first to answer this question, because we have asked it to two other ministers, the Finance Minister and the Minister for Regional Development. We ask you the question from the point of view of the health of the people in these Danube areas and that it is high time we do some coordination because some money is being spent and the effect is not. The question may be formally formulated: what action will you take to develop a cross-border Bulgarian-Romanian mechanism for a joint institutional partnership to manage the risk of the excessive population of insects and of a mechanism for joint action between all Danube municipalities to overcome the risk, of course, from the point of view of protecting the health of people in these areas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u265	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. You have the floor, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u266	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Gokov! Indeed, the problem of treating insects in Danube municipalities is very serious and it affects the activities of several ministries and their regional structures. I would even say that this is not only a problem of the Danube region, because by turning down through Dobrudja, there are also serious dangers, and in some cities in the central parts of the country also have such problems. That is, a common methodology, organisation and functioning of activities should be developed here in this season when the population of these insects begins. I will now take account of my part and of the health measures to be taken. Given the seriousness of the problem related to the development and spread of mosquitos on the territory of the country, the Ministry of Health will carry out a risk analysis in each area of the country in order to implement maximum effective measures to combat mosquitoes. The Ministry of Health provided to the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, the Danube Municipalities Association and the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency recommendations on the implementation of coordinated disinsectation treatment at the border with the Republic of Romania in January of this year, through its structures, the National Centre for Infectious and Parasitic Diseases and Regional Health Inspections, the Ministry provides continuous expert assistance and training, including the Association of Danube Municipalities, with regard to the proper conduct of disinsecting, determining risk treatment sites, the production of preparations, the methods and time limits for processing the areas, the implementation of the control of the biotopes of vectors, including those of the municipalities, including those responsible for the quality and effectiveness of the municipal authorities. The Association of Danube Municipalities works in cooperation with the National Centre for Infectious and Parasitic Diseases in organizing trainings of stakeholders concerning good practices in the dissect against mosquitoes. I assure you that the Ministry of Health, within the framework of its statutory powers, will assist in achieving a modern and integrated approach and coordination of actions between stakeholders for the protection of public health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u267	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A line? Mr. Antonov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u268	Dear Mr. Chairman, Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of ministers! Dear Minister Ananiev, according to your response we understand that we are still in the field of analysis. We have our question with our colleagues from the Danube municipalities and, of course, our colleague Gokov and I from the Stara Zagora region are putting it exactly at the right time when we have to solve it, and we are very much helping you, insofar as you are in fact the head of the National Health System. You are responsible and you are the person who has to propose the scheme on which the issue needs to be resolved, and there is one mechanism............................................................................................. The Danube municipalities and those from the other side of the Danube, Romanian municipalities need to be built. By the way, if you go back about seven or eight years, we've done a similar mosquito treatment. This system is not so difficult, but now is the time for you to move it, and we largely support you because with a question to the Minister of Finance, the other ministers can be very easily secured this case. We'll keep asking that question because we don't have time, you don't have time. The more serious mayors of the Danube municipalities started a procedure, respectively, for spraying actions in their municipalities, but you have to build the National Strategy and you do not have time. As soon as next, at a further meeting, you have to bring it in, offer it to the Council of Ministers, allocate the funds accordingly and act quickly under this procedure. Otherwise, everything will go back to the way it was last year, and it was like a pandemic. What kind of tourism are we talking about in these Danube municipalities when people, after work, came home to the houses, couldn't get out to any settlements? And it really wasn't just the Danube municipalities. This reached deep in the country to Predbalkana, and also in the sea areas.. Dobrich and down, there were other areas where it happened. You have our support, however, we rely on serious, operational treatment. You're talking about analysis. The analysis is clear and everything will be repeated as last year will be eaten by people mosquitos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u269	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u270	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Antonov, there is no room to wait. Just because we're doing an analysis doesn't mean we're not in the final analysis. I know very well that if something is not done in March at the latest, then things become much more difficult to control. What is different from what the Ministry of Health believes should be done from what is being done so far is to start treating the outbreaks before the population of mosquitoes and other flying animals that carry the disease. We believe that it is better to prevent it, not when the population has already passed and spend more money on spraying and destruction. Joint activities with the Romanian Government and the Romanian authorities are better done in the early stages when this population has not been carried out. However, the government will, indeed, soon enough, adopt measures to address these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u271	Thank you, Minister, and for the last tenth question. Thank you for today. You've been stoic. We continue with two questions to the Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov. The first is from the MP Tanya Petrova on improving the protection of the child and prevention of child crime in Bulgaria. You have the floor to ask the question, Mrs. Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u272	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! The formal reason for asking this question is that a few days ago, on a tour of the Varna region with the Minister of Education and Science in the municipality of Zdrazopol, we attended a training session of children who are in the primary school degree, to the so-called project "Children Police Department." The interest in these initiatives of the Ministry of Interior is great and realizing that the treatment of children is a shared care and duty of society, of civil institutions and competent authorities, I ask this question: how does the Ministry of Interior organise and participate in initiatives related to prevention of all forms of violence against and from children, because undoubtedly early prevention of anti-social events among adolescents, their upbringing in a spirit of responsibility and the development of civil culture are extremely important? Does the analysis of school activities show a decrease in the number of children who have suffered and committed crimes?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u273	Thank you, Mrs. Petrova. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u274	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Petrova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Specialized employees for working with children in the Ministry of Interior work on prevention and countering child crime on the basis of the Law on the Ministry of Interior, the Law on Combating Anti-social Events and Crimes of Minors and a number of national international acts concerning the work with children to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a country. In the field of prevention of illegal acts committed by minors, the Ministry of Interior is working on two national prevention programmes at an early school age. In 2000, the National Program was launched. The work of the police in the schools and in 2016. The Children's Police Department. The objectives set out in the Programme are general prevention in relation to children at school age, building models for safety behavior in adolescents, creating a positive attitude towards the police and its activities in children and getting acquainted with students according to their age, with initial elementary legal concepts, including the responsibility they carry in committing crimes. Under the National Program the police work in the schools in 2018 was given 8713 lectures and lectures in 1519 schools in the country. A total of 763 police officers took part in the program, of which 228 children's pedagogical room inspectors who held classes in 7913 classes from 1st to 12th grade in municipal and state schools in the country. In the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior some of the lectures and lectures under the Programme are held in sync with local events, initiatives and projects on children's problems. The programme "Work of the Police in the Schools" generally implements its main objectives in preventing children's behaviour and creating models for safe conduct. During the months of May and June 2019 28 final events under the Programme were held on the territory of the country with the participation of children from 5th and 6th grade. There were 163 children's police departments at all district departments of the Ministry of Interior in the country, where a total of 3699 children aged eight to twelve were trained. The program aims to protect children's lives, health, rights and property, to form skills and habits for proper conduct in different situations, intolerance to criminal offences, reduction of crimes and anti-social events carried out by children and children, as well as to create a civil position and strengthen trust in the institutions in the Republic of Bulgaria. For the successful implementation of the Program there are concluded agreements between the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Youth and Sport, the Ministry of Justice, the Bulgarian Red Cross, the Bulgarian Tourist Union, the Bulgarian Orthodox Church and the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, the idea of the Ministry of Interior is more institutions to unite their efforts in the work of prevention and in the name of the children. The program has a separate module "Social skills" in which the training topics developed by psychologists from the Institute of Psychology of the Ministry of Interior are aimed entirely at reducing aggression among adolescents. The topics take into account the age characteristics of children and aim to reduce violence against and from children. Dear Mrs. Petrova, since the subject is really very important, I will continue with the information in the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u275	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mrs. Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u276	Dear Minister, the information you are giving is really very detailed and the numbers that I expected to hear convince us that the Ministry of Interior is working very actively with the institutions that you have set up regarding the topic I am putting. I will just add that school age as a period of human life is characterized by character and uniqueness in terms of the accumulation of knowledge and experience at a considerable pace. This student age is also rich in sensitive points and if we know them, we can use them for realization of preventions that are related to the potential risk behavior of the child in the future. That is, in the next stages of its development.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u277	You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u278	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Petrova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will continue with information regarding the Children's Police Department programme, as the analysis shows that it is extremely interesting, important and mostly results. National competitions for children's drawing are held in three consecutive years with children's police headquarters and in June 2020, the Second National Sports Competition is to be held. Within the framework of the Programme in 2019 in five regional departments of the Ministry of Interior "Ruse, Montana, Lovech, Pazardzhik and Pernik," the volunteers from the "Children Police Department" took part in the campaign "We do not sell alcohol to those who need alcohol" by promoting and distributing printed materials in the retail outlets near the schools and kindergartens in which alcoholic beverages are offered. The essence of the initiative is to convince owners and employees in these retail outlets that the future of children depends on their personal attitude and desire to comply with the Child Protection Act and the Health Act. The Ministry of Interior also organizes other initiatives and campaigns with children from different schools in the country and the campaign is a better way for children to grow up. The initiative aims to reduce aggressive behavior among children in school through sports. The Directorate-General for National Police is a dedicated website for prevention of violence against children and countering child crime. The main purpose of the site is to acquaint children with their rights and obligations, with the basic rules for personal safety, with patterns of behavior in conflict situations, and to provide accessible, useful and up-to-date information to specialists working with children. In connection with the opening of each school year between the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Education and Science, an agreement has been reached on the dissemination of information materials, including rules on safe children's behaviour and advice to parents. The same can be found on the website http://detskasigurnost.bg. In order to ensure the safety and security of children and in order to limit criminal offences by and against children, police operations are carried out on a monthly basis in the areas of educational institutions and public places visited by children. In 2019 a total of 10 570 inspections were carried out at sites and places visited by adolescents. Regarding the second question, I inform you that there is no increase in the unlawful acts committed by children at school. The data shows a decrease in the number of found perpetrators of crimes in schools. In 2018, the unlawful acts committed by children were a total of 457 committed by minors and 243 committed by minors. In 2019, the unlawful acts committed by children were 375, respectively committed by minors of 165 and 210 committed by minors. It should be borne in mind that, according to the provisions of the Penal Code.................................................................................................. 31, para. 2, juveniles who are 14 years old but have not reached 18 years of age are criminally responsible only if they can understand the property, the meaning of the act and guide their actions. According to art. 32, para. 1 of the NC are not criminally responsible minors who are not over 14 years of age. These children are perpetrators of anti-social acts, not crimes, and they are dealt with by the inspectors from the Children's Pedagogical Room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u279	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question to Minister Marinov is from the MP Jayhan Ibryamov about suicide in the building of SANS of a member of the Board of the Bulgarian National Union. You have the floor, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u280	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is about the suicide in the building of SANS by Emil Krumov, member of the Management Board of the Bulgarian National Union. A few days ago, we witnessed a very strange incident in which a man committed suicide in the DANS building with an I.E.D. on the body of which a gun with the plates and two clips were found. The person is identified as Emil Krumov a longtime BDZ employee with a criminal record for hijacking an airplane, and last but not least, he is a member of the Board of the Bulgarian National Union. He is the main organizer of the neo-Nazi event Lukovmarsh and is in close cooperation with both the international neo-Nazi political network Blood and Honor, as well as with the Internal Macedonian revolutionary organization. According to publicly released information, Krumov did not hide his neo-Nazi affiliation. He was in a difficult financial situation, but a large arsenal of weapons needed for serious funding was found in his home search. I am extremely concerned by the fact that a person with such neo-Nazi views is able to acquire and conceal an entire battle arsenal with which he was able to commit a mass slaughter like the Norwegian mass murderer Brajvik. The topic is extremely serious in view of the presence in the administration of the Republic of Bulgaria of political parties, which often use xenophobic views and hate language, which is a kind of legitimization of such behaviour to the Bulgarian society. In this regard, my question to you, Minister, is: have the reasons for this incident been established and does your ministry consider it appropriate to launch a thorough investigation against persons and organisations belonging to the neo-fascist contingent and openly threatening the national security of Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u281	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u282	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Ibryamov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! In accordance with art. 2 of the Ministry of Interior Act of the Ministry of Interior is aimed at protecting the rights and freedoms of citizens, combating crime, protecting national security, protecting public order and fire safety and protecting the population. Within their functional competence, the authorities of the Ministry of Interior shall take all necessary measures and actions to ensure internal security and public order. The Ministry of Interior actively cooperates with other national security-related entities, such as the State Agency of National Security. Regarding your specific question regarding suicide in front of the State Agency's building, I inform you that in the case of the Sofia Directorate of Interior, pre-trial proceedings No 21 of 2020. Since the investigation in the case has not yet been completed and the investigation materials cannot be disclosed, according to the provision of art. 198, para. 1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure I have no right to provide information without the permission of the monitoring prosecutor at the Sofia District Prosecutor's Office. With regard to your question related to the organization in question, you know that the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria has taken jurisdiction measures with a request for its deletion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u283	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Line, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u284	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Of course I'm aware, as are all my colleagues, of the actions of the Special Prosecutor's Office. We expect the Special Court's actions to see what the solution is. Minister, this is my third or fourth question. Firstly, there was an answer that statistics were not kept in the Ministry of Interior whether there were such organizations and whether their activities were being monitored. Secondly, there was a terrible incident with a teacher at a Bulgarian school which served with neo-Nazi gestures at school and beat the teacher. It is clear from this fact that when your predecessors were exporting the information, they were false or hiding information. Now let's answer the following questions: who are these organizations that finance the activities of such neo-fascist organizations as the National Assembly, who finances them and who gives them their political backs? They were discovered, as I said, a wealthy arsenal of weapons. Who were these weapons intended for, Mr. Minister? The same people are organizing Lukovmarsh. With great interest, we will see if this event will be held tomorrow. I call on you, as Minister of the Interior, not to guard these people in order not to create riots, but to prevent such an event from taking place at all. Two news that are extremely important. Last night representatives of the Bulgarian National Union, from this same organization, which should be deleted, invaded the event of Sofia University and created riots. Police interference leads to an end to excesses. Today's news "Dortmund" has stopped a direct flight to Bulgaria because there are doubts that there are far-rights on this flight that come especially for Lukovmarsh. And now the police in Germany are wondering how to stop their arrival in Bulgaria. These are extremely disturbing facts, Mr. Minister, and it should be an hour rather than an hour before the judicial authorities in Bulgaria are homogeneously involved in these neo-fascist events. Of course, before I graduate, I will allow myself to give you a book, which clearly shows a political leader in a photo with representatives of the National Assembly, which is no less proof that there are political parties in Bulgaria that are the backs of such neo-fascist organizations. Thank you. [[Gives a book to Minister Mladen Marinov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u285	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. A hole, Mr. Minister. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u286	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Ibryamov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I will add that one of the main objectives of the Ministry of Interior is to solve crimes and, together with the prosecution, to work on their documentation. Naturally, in any case, when the acts correspond to the compositions of the Penal Code, we are obliged and acting. Within this scope are also crimes committed by hatred and crimes related to the confession of neo-fascist ideology. Regarding which parties carry out such an ideology, you know that there are other institutions in the country, in this case the State Agency of National Security, who have competence in this direction. As I said, on the basis of this work and the referral of the prosecution, appropriate action has been taken in the presence of concrete evidence. Regarding the event that you pointed out, I would like to introduce you to the chronology. You know that this event has been held for many years in Bulgaria and attempts are being made to hold it. There are years in which it was banned by order of the mayor of Sofia Municipality. There have been cases where its holding has also been terminated by order of the mayor of Sofia Municipality. I, as a former director of the Sofia Directorate of Interior, have always opposed when such events involve violations of public order and a violent ideology is being preached. In the present case of the upcoming event in Sofia Municipality with a notification from the organizer, in this case. "БНС" "Edelweiss", this notification was submitted on 25 April 2019, Lukovmarsh, which is scheduled to take place on 22 February 2020 for the time from 17:00 to 21:00 with a meeting point of the participants before the National Palace of Culture. The procession is planned to take the central streets of Sofia. "Vitosha", bul. Patriarh Evtimiy, ul. "Georgi Sava Rakovski," bul. In front of the home of General Hristo Lukov, where a short ceremony will take place. In relation to the notification received in Sofia Municipality by the Sofia Directorate of Internal Affairs, a written opinion was prepared that the event should be held only in its part on Street. "Trakiya" No 1, without the requested procession. An order has been issued by Sofia Municipality on 25 April 2019 to prohibit the conduct of the requested by the Bulgarian National Union (Bulgarian Union) - Edelweiss - a mourning torch procession in memory of General Hristo Lukov on 22 February 2020 on the requested route. As a result of the appeals taken by the organizer in the Administrative Court of Sofia-City proceedings have been initiated under the order of art. 12, para. 4 of the Law on meetings, rallies and demonstrations concerning a complaint against the order of the mayor of the capital for banning the stated event. The Administrative Court of Sofia-City annulled the order of the mayor of Sofia Municipality and returned the file of Sofia Municipality for a new ruling on the notification of the Bulgarian National Union. A new order was issued by Sofia Municipality dated 13 August 2019, changing what was claimed by the notification by the Bulgarian National Union "Edelweiss" a mourning torch march on the central streets of Sofia and a wreathing ceremony in memory of General Hristo Lukov on 22 February 2020 in front of the home of Sofia Street. The municipality of Sofia changes this notification and allows only offering of wreaths on the street. Trakiya. In this regard, I would like to assure you that the authorities of the Ministry of Interior will do everything possible to comply with the order issued by the mayor of the capital, since under the Law on Meetings, Meetings and Manifestations, we are obliged to ensure compliance with this order. So we are taking measures and actions to prevent any disruption of public order. With regard to the presence of foreign persons involved in this event, we also have information, and every year we take appropriate action when this is contrary to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u287	Thank you, dear Minister. Thanks for being in control today, too. We continue with two questions to Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy. Both issues are on the same subject, so we will follow the procedure under art. 106, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first question is from the National Representative Nikolai Ivanov about power cuts in Vratsa district. The second is from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova and the National Representative Milko Nedyalkov on the policy of the Ministry of Energy in the control of investment activities and repair works of the company CEZ Bulgaria. Dear Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u288	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Ministers! Dear Minister, at the beginning of February after the first serious snowfall on the territory of Vratsa District, as you will also hear on the territory of other areas, a very difficult situation arose. Specially in Vratsa district in three municipalities, Vratsa, Mezdra and Roman, over 30 settlements remained powerless. As a result, many of these settlements were also without water supply, many of the households in these settlements lost the products they stored in electrical appliances. There was a lot of civil tension, there were protests that were reflected in the media. Local authorities, especially mayors of mayors and mayors of municipalities, felt the inability to coordinate the restoration of the normal situation in their settlements due to poor communication with the electricity distribution company. However, since snow was neither surprising nor so great and it was not a disaster, but it came to such a difficult situation, my question to you is: what are the possibilities of the Ministry of Energy in such an environment, and not only, as you will hear from the additional second question of my colleague, to provide control and influence over the actions to eliminate the causes of power disruption, to ensure the connection and communication between the electricity distribution company and the local authorities and to control, in general, the electricity distribution companies carrying out the necessary investments, so that in a very normal, in this case, winter situation does not come to such dire situations?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u289	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mrs. Naydenova, you have the floor to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u290	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, unfortunately, the problem was extremely serious, severe and in Loveska region, where many settlements are nearly eight municipalities, 41 villages, also left powerless within three days. The reasons are many, the reasons are clear. The heavy snowfall, cooling the wires, breaking the poles. An extremely difficult situation, which put on very serious tests not only the distribution of Bulgaria, but also the mayors of municipalities who had to make immense efforts to somehow restore normal life in municipalities. Undoubtedly, this tension was directed at both CEZ and the mayors. I think it's kind of unfair to look from the side and say: "Yes, you see that the company is private. " I will also ask my question: what is the policy of the Ministry of Energy not to wait for such things to happen, but the company itself to invest in its facilities accordingly, so that it can be prepared to meet any conditions, including winter?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u291	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. You have the floor for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u292	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, Dear Mrs. Naydenova, Dear Mr. Nedyalkov, according to art. 75, para. 1 of the Energy Act Energy Minister conducts preliminary and subsequent control of the technical condition and operation of the energy sites. In connection with the registered accidents and power outages related to the complicated weather situation on 5 and 6 February this year, the licensing territory of the CEZ Distribution by my order I ordered an extraordinary inspection of the technical condition of the energy outlets of the electricity distribution company in Mezdra and Vratsa operational centers. In the verification carried out, the quality of the technical operation of the facilities in accordance with the legislation in force was covered. It was found that in the municipalities of Vratsa, Mezdra and Roman due to wet snow were broken, tilted, twisted and twisted 22 pieces steel bars of net medium voltage and 113 steel concrete poles of net low voltage. There's also severed air ducts. On the basis of art. 80, para. 1 of the Energy Act for the results of the verification of control bodies will be drawn up a constant protocol. On the basis of art. 80, para. 4 t. 1 of the Energy Act of CEZ Distribution will be given mandatory prescriptions with a deadline for implementation and removal of the detected irregularities on the electricity distribution network. I'm using the case to inform you that next week on the grounds of art. 75, para. 1 of the Energy Act such an emergency check will be carried out on the technical condition of the energy sites of the CEZ Distribution in the Operational Centre................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I undertake to inform the Members of the National Assembly of their results after the two checks have been completed. It should be noted that measures were taken with regard to interruptions in Vratsa County in order to speed up the process of restoration of electricity and the colleagues of the Electricity System Operator cooperated on the territory of Vratsa District. Six teams of the Electricity System Operator helped colleagues from CEZ Distribution and the goal was to restore the power supply in the settlements rather. With regard to your issues related to the policy of the Ministry of Energy in the control of the investment activities of the electricity distribution companies, including CEZ Distribution Bulgaria, it should be taken into account that according to art. 76, para. 1 of the Energy Act, the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory, controls the compliance of the licensing activities carried out with the terms of the licences issued to the electricity distribution companies. The KEWRC confirms the amount of investments for the regulatory period to be implemented by the electricity distribution companies. Investments to improve the quality of electricity, security and safety of the distribution network are imperative from the point of view of implementing the licensing and contractual obligations of companies. For the purpose of this reply, information from the Ministry of Energy was requested by the Ministry of Energy from CEZ Distribution for the value of the investments made in the distribution network over the last three years on the territory of the districts of Vratsa and Lovech. The total value of direct investment in both areas by information from the CEZ's distribution amounted to 30 million. 235 thousand. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of commitments remaining to be settled 630,000. lv. investments made on the territory of Vratsa and 12 million. 605 thousand. lv. on the territory of Lovech district. Obviously, with these accidents that have been registered and the discomfort that has been created with regard to citizens living in the territory of these settlements, it may be good for the electricity distribution companies, in this case CEZ Distribution, together with the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission with a view to the upcoming new regulatory period, to discuss the possibility of increasing the size of investments in these areas, so that this infrastructure is renovated, maintained and thus ensure the security of supply and the quality of electricity supply. Perhaps it is also important to say that, since 2015, the Ministry of Energy has been carrying out periodic checks in relation to the upcoming autumn-winter seasons. The three electricity distribution companies and the electricity system operator shall be inspected each year, covering the territories of the respective licence holders in the territories of individual municipalities. So the Ministry performs its functions by law to carry out such preliminary, current, and, of course, subsequent controls. Our checks are two types that are: planned and extraordinary checks, as is the one that is now in its final.. the check on the territory of Vratsa District, and such a check that we will perform next week in the territory of Lovech District. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u293	Thank you, dear Minister. Line, Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u294	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. You did your best not only to gather information, but also to carry out an inspection. I have no idea what she found. I cannot accept that after 17 million investments in the territory of Vratsa district, a three-inch snowfall will result in such severe consequences. As we have heard, dozens of poles of medium voltage and hundreds of pillars and wires in the settlements have been bent, broken, destroyed, indicating that the entire network is in a very heavy state. For example, for the municipality of Roman, I can tell you that for several years we have been waiting for an investment of about 2 million. BGN, which will provide really permanent because in the municipality of Roman this is a problem for years, normal electricity in the settlements in the municipality and part of Mezdra municipality along the river Iskar. This never happens. There are always reasons to delay this investment. In my opinion, the state in the face of the Ministry of Energy, of course, with the support of all institutions, must have the possibility of much more real and active control of this, do these investments really lead to the provision of a normal service to the population. The situation was extremely severe. Regional administration tried to be a mediator between local authorities, people and CEZ Distribution. Extremely intense meetings at which mayors of municipalities and mayors of settlements clearly showed that there is even a lack of normal communication between people through the town halls, municipalities and the electricity distribution company. Even until a few days ago, there were still pumping stations at Vratsa, which didn't work because they had arranged due to power outage. Currently there are still problems with water supply, water supply, and almost a month after, I repeat, quite normal for this season of the year snowfall. So my request is that these checks be more frequent, not accidental. We hope that due to the current checks and findings there will be serious interference by the Ministry of Energy and Responsible Institutions and that there will indeed be a more active control of whether these investments are actually made in the territories of both areas and not only. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u295	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. You have the floor for a line, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u296	Dear Minister, because the subject is investment, their role is undoubtedly the preventive nature. Therefore, when this forthcoming inspection is carried out in Lovech region, especially in Troyan Municipality, which was most affected, very please pay attention to where these investments are directed. Because one is investment down in the plain, another is in the Pre-Balkan, where the region is extremely heavy, where there are so many uncut trees that fall on the wires themselves. There's even a photo later after completion, when I guess we'll meet and we'll see the result of this check, I'll show you how in a village called Belish, at the moment to save the situation, there's just a wooden pole on which the power is hung. So we will watch closely for the next period what the KEWRC will recommend, what it will sign, where these investments will be directed, because undoubtedly the Pre-Balkan requires much more than in the flats. We also need to know what the current state is, even what the consumption is. There are certainly many things that need to be taken into account. I know it was hard. I know! We should thank everyone, including the people, and the CEZ, who wintered and still managed to cope, however hard I could swallow this state, the mayors and especially the crisis headquarters at both municipal and regional level. Thank you for taking this very seriously.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u297	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. Madam Minister, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u298	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would also like to thank you, in turn, for bringing up these current issues. I am using this case to assure you that the Ministry of Energy, the government, is doing everything necessary to ensure the security of supply and the comfort of people's lives. However, the specific situation was linked to heavy snowfalls, which led to problems with electricity supply in these municipalities. Unfortunately, on the territory of Vratsa district, the damage was in very high places difficult to access, and this required all the necessary equipment to be able to remove the accident, to be delivered by hand literally. The CEZ colleagues had mobilized all their teams from neighbouring regions, from neighbouring regions, so that they could remove all these damage as quickly as possible. I use the case to assure you that the Ministry will continue to perform its functions as the Law provides. As far as investment is concerned, we will send the results of our reports from our inspections to the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, which is actually the competent authority that can assess whether the investments made actually led to this expected result of them. And if that is not the case, perhaps when talking to the relevant electricity distribution company, they can be motivated and directed to go to places where they are needed, as was explained just now. Thank you once again, and I promise you, as soon as the checks are completed, I will let you know the results of them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-21.u299	Thank you, dear Minister. Thank you for participating in parliamentary control today. Honourable Members, the next regular plenary session will be on 26 February 2020 at 9.00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
