ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, I remind you to put on your masks. I will present to your attention a draft work programme for the National Assembly for May 20, 2020: By decision of the Conference of Presidents, we insert "1." Draft declaration on administrative and territorial reform in Ukraine and protection of the rights and integrity of the Bulgarian community. Importers: Valeri Simeonov, Daniela Daritkova, Iskren Veselinov and Polina Tsankova on 20 May 2020; 2. Second vote on the Agricultural Chain Management Bill. Importer: Council of Ministers on 3 February 2020, adopted on the first vote on 7 February 2020; 3. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Oil and Oil Stocks Act. Importer: Council of Ministers on 15 October 2019, adopted on the first vote on 28 November 2019; 4. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Underground Treasures. Importer: Council of Ministers on 2 April 2020; 5. The election of the Ombudsman. The selection procedure is in accordance with the rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 4 March 2020. point 1 for Thursday 21 May 2020; 6. Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the State Agency Act. Exporters: Dimitar Lazarov, Plamen Nunev, Krasimir Tsipov and Valentin Kasabov on 20 February 2020, adopted on the first vote on 11 March 2020. point 2 for Thursday 21 May 2020; 7. First vote on Bills amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. Importers: Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 4 May 2020; Mustafa Karadayi, Delyan Peevski and Yordan Tsonev on 13 May 2020; Boriana Georgieva and Polina Tsankova on 15 May 2020; Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs on 15 May 2020; Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs on 15 May 2020; Cornelia Nino and a group of MPs on 18 May 2020. point 1 for Friday 22 May 2020; 8. Parliamentary control. Please, voting mode. Colleagues, the materials on point one will be distributed at any moment. They're already being handed out by the Quaestors. They voted 196 MPs: 149, none, abstention 47. The motion is accepted. Draft and draft resolutions from 14 May 2020 to 19 May 2020: A bill to amend and supplement the Penal Code. Exporters: Elena Pesheva and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. A bill amending the Value Added Tax Act. Importers: Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and the Committee on Legal Affairs. A bill amending the Value Added Tax Act. Importers: Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Budget and Finance, to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, to the Committee on Culture and Media, to the Committee on Education and Science, to the Committee on Legal Affairs, to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. Importers: Boryana Georgieva and Polina Tsankova. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Culture and Media, the Committee on Education and Science, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Spaces, Internal Waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer: Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications and to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, the Committee on Legal Affairs. Report on the implementation of the budget for the state social security in 2019. Importer: Manager of the National Insurance Institute. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. A bill to supplement the Value Added Tax Act. Importers: Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and to the Committee on Health. Report on the hearing of the proposed candidate for ombudsman. Importer: Commission of Religions and Human Rights. Messages: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, by his own orders he has authorised the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of a non-military nature of: - Il-76 with his crew of the Air Force of Ukraine. The authorisation shall be valid for the period from 17 to 31 May 2020 for a total of six flights to transport medical property from Vietnam to Romania; - Il-76 with his crew from the Air Force of Ukraine. The aircraft will fly from Ukraine to Mali in order to position the starting point for the transport of cargo from Mali to Denmark. The authorisation shall be valid for the period from 18 to 21 May 2020; - Il-76 aircraft with their crews from the Air Force of the Republic of Azerbaijan to transport military production. The authorisation is valid for routes from the Republic of Azerbaijan to the Republic of Belarus and vice versa and from the Republic of Azerbaijan to the Kingdom of Spain and vice versa, from 18 to 31 May 2020. The notifications were received on 18 May 2020 with entry No 003-09-32, 33 and 34 and submitted to the Defence Commission. A report on the state of administration in 2019 was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 May 2020. adopted by Decision No 326 of the Council of Ministers of 2020 By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report was sent to the Committee on Legal Affairs. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. The National Statistical Institute has received information on indexes of turnover in the section "Retail trade, excluding trade in cars and motorcycles' in 2020; indexes of industrial production in March 2020; indexes of construction production in March 2020; persons employed and average gross wage in the first quarter of 2020; gross domestic product in the first quarter of 2020. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Colleagues, we're moving to point one for today: PROJECT OF A DECLARATION ON THE ADMINISTRATIVE-TERRITORIAL REFORM IN UKRAINE AND PROTECTION OF THE RIGHTS AND TARGETS OF THE BULGARIAN COMMUNITY. Mr. Simeonov, if you'd like to present us with the declaration proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As Chairman of the Friendship Group with Ukraine, I would like to inform you briefly that in recent years the diplomatic and political relations between Bulgaria and Ukraine have made significant progress, and it has always held the main place in them the issue of the rights and interests of the Bulgarian community in Ukraine, which is situated in the historic geographical area of Besarabia with the natural administrative center of Bolgrad. In all previous contacts between the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria and the President since 5 October 2018, subsequently in the telephone call, which was held on 31 January this year with President Volodimir Zelenski, was confirmed support for Bulgaria's request to preserve the administrative integrity of the Bolgrad region. This administrative integrity has existed since the emigration of the ancestors of our compatriots in Ukraine from the end of the XVIII and the beginning of the XIX century. Bolgrad has always been a natural administrative center. However, with great concern, we literally three days ago learned of a prepared decision by the Council of Ministers of Ukraine, which is intended to divide the Bolgrad region into five independent administrative parts... the so-called gromadi, with which there is a very heavy impact on the integrity of our Bulgarian community, as these gromadi are being regrouped into settlements that have so far been with ethnically almost prioritized Bulgarian composition. They join others in which there is no Bulgarian presence. This is a very unpleasant and dangerous fact from the point of view of preserving the Bulgarian community and protecting the interests to which we are empathetic and extremely involved. In this regard, I suggest to your attention the adoption of a Declaration against the prepared division of the administrative region of Bolgrad, which I would like you to listen to and support: DECLARATION on administrative and territorial reform in Ukraine and the protection of the rights and integrity of the Bulgarian community National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria, - stressing its support for sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity, democratic development of Ukraine and its aspirations for closer European and Euro-Atlantic cooperation; - recalling the consistent position taken by the Republic of Bulgaria in defence of the interests of the Ukrainian people and state within the international institutions; - stressing in this sense the key role of the arrangements related to the preservation policy of the traditions, language, culture and customs of the Bulgarian community, the cooperation of Ukraine with the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Union and calling on Ukraine to respect the commitments made to international acts to which it is a country; - taking into account the European Charter on Local Self-government and the Council of Europe Framework Convention on the Protection of National Interests;
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u3	Minorities!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u4	said that the Bulgarian community is an integrated and loyal part of the Ukrainian state and society and expresses its deep concern about the prepared decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the division of the Belgrade administrative region into five gromadi administrative units; - noting that such a decision is not envisaged for other administrative areas in Ukraine; - expressing concern that this act will lead to the depersonalization of the ethnic identity of the Bulgarian community in Bolgrad as the natural historical center of the Bulgarian diaspora is Ukraine and a bridge between our two friendly countries; - expressing confidence that Ukraine's European and Euro-Atlantic aspirations will motivate the implementation of bilateral agreements, The National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria declares its strong disagreement with the prepared administrative changes and calls: 1. The Government of the Republic of Bulgaria should take all possible action before the Government of Ukraine to ensure the integrity of the Bulgarian community in the Bolgrad region in the forthcoming administrative and territorial reform. 2. To propose the organization of an urgent intergovernmental meeting to discuss and identify specific measures and actions to protect the rights and integrity of the Bulgarian minority in Ukraine, including by renewing the Protocol for Cooperation and Exchange between the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine for the Study 2020/2021, 2021/2022, 2022/2023 and 2023/2024, regulating the study of Bulgarian language; the opening of the Bulgarian High School in Odessa and the Ukrainian Cultural Centre in Sofia, as well as the completion of the repair of road infrastructure in the Balkan, Tarutinski and Arcizki region. The National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria insists that solving the problems of the Bulgarian community in Ukraine is a priority issue which should be resolved in the spirit of excellent relations between the two countries and in compliance with the European values.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u5	Mr. Simeonov, one inaccuracies you have admitted.. Taking into account the European Charter on Local Self-government and the Council of Europe Framework Convention on the Protection of National Interests you have said, and it is the minority. We're keeping it small. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u6	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u7	Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you go. Will there be speeches? Colleagues, speeches, last call for Members of the National Assembly. Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u8	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable importers of the Declaration! Bulgaria's attitude towards Ukraine and the affirmation of its statehood over the past more than decades, I find consistent. I think this can be noted by any impartial observer in international relations. This sequence is reflected in a series of meetings of Bulgarian officials at different levels with representatives of the Ukrainian state at the level of parliament, at the level of prime ministers, at the level of presidents. Moreover, the Bulgarian community in Ukraine has always been perceived as a connecting link in relations between the two countries. The Bulgarian state has always been active in these decades and has had an understanding of the Ukrainian country in the field of cultural cooperation, education. This understanding has always been reflected in Bulgaria's support for Ukraine in a number of international "European and non-European," in the complex years in which Ukraine is established as a state. In this sense, the actions of the Ukrainian Government in terms of administrative and territorial division, which affects the Bulgarian community in Ukraine, can be really hard to understand, can hardly be motivated and enter into dissonance with the relations that have been built between Bulgaria and Ukraine so far. Unfortunately, this declaration and the reasons that are attached to it are offered in an urgent order, which is currently in the Bulgarian National Assembly, including the Bulgarian BSP, we are forced to accept. We, first of all, object to the way the Declaration is being prepared. We believe that such an order of preparation of documents affecting interstate relations, as is currently required, initiated by a parliamentary group, without a preliminary working group, without the commitment of the Committee on Foreign Policy with the document and without its discussion, cannot be legitimate, especially for such documents. About the content of the Declaration. Of course, it is normal for the Bulgarian position to be in defence of the Bulgarian community in Ukraine. On the other hand, there is a serious question of what the Bulgarian diplomacy did so as not to come to this point. An extremely serious issue, because today the Bulgarian National Assembly is forced in this urgent situation to decide on a matter which, of course, has reason but to rule on behalf of the executive power. Where is the Bulgarian Foreign Minister in this situation? The Bulgarian Foreign Minister can sign any declarations, as we saw 20 days ago, which concern neural or less neural historical issues...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u9	History affects.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u10	...and the history of Europe, but at the same time when the interests of the Bulgarian community in Ukraine must be protected, the Bulgarian government transfers the ball to the Bulgarian Parliament. After years of supporting Ukraine, as I mentioned at the beginning, in diplomatic initiatives, what was done to ensure the administrative integrity, as the document says, of the Bulgarian community, of the Bulgarian diaspora in Ukraine? In what way was this issue related to the Bulgarian support? As you know, regarding legislation concerning minority communities in Ukraine, there are a number of remarks against Ukraine in international organisations, including a resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe under the Language Act in Ukraine. Nevertheless, the Bulgarian state failed to form its firm position in this direction. Because, when the initiators of this resolution "Poland, Romania and Hungary" submitted its draft examination, the Bulgarian state again sought a separate path, so to speak, the way of bilateral negotiations, without active interaction with the European institutions and other countries, which basically raised the issue of the protection of minority rights in the territory of Ukraine. Today, we, with a retroactive date, as in many cases, remember that we have not protected or have not ensured the administrative integrity of the Bulgarian community in the best way. Yes, there are international documents which regulate similar acts of countries which treat the administrative division of areas where ethnic rights and freedoms prevail as part of the common issue of ethnic rights and freedoms. But the Bulgarian state in this case failed to enter this issue for the Bulgarian community in the overall interstate dialogue between Bulgaria and Ukraine. And here is the responsibility of the government, the ruling majority and the personal responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I regret that at such a time when the Bulgarian community undoubtedly needs the support of the Bulgarian state, we go into these details, but they are important from the point of view of the technology of our government, the responsibility for the way the foreign policy of the Republic of Bulgaria is formed, especially on key issues for neighbouring and slightly more distant countries in which Bulgarian communities and people with ethnic awareness live. The lack of a comprehensive state policy as to how to approach the bilateral relations, not just in terms of the realization of cultural, educational and other policy of the Bulgarian state, but in terms of bilateral relations with the countries in which such communities exist! We should not forget that these citizens with Bulgarian self-consciousness are citizens of other countries, comply with other laws, live in another political and constitutional order. Therefore, interstate dialogue should come from these realities. What is happening today in relations with Ukraine is not useful for Bulgarian-Ukrainian relations in any case and is proof of the lack of a comprehensive understanding of how to deal with these issues with the governments of these countries. We cannot, as Parliament, adopt a Declaration written the previous day, which is not discussed, on issues that affect the overall nature of Bulgarian-Ukrainian relations. And they also affect an extremely sensitive issue about the rights of national and ethnic minorities in Europe! You know, these issues lie at the heart of intra-Spanish problems with Catalonia, in one form or another exist in Italy, in one form or another exist in other European countries! And this way of work that we are offered today is, to put it mildly, gambling. We can't make these decisions like this! The absence of the foreign minister is also fragile! Where is Mrs. Zaharieva really? She should be reporting this issue here! Mr. Simeonov's initiative is good. He is trying in some situation to put the issue seriously to the Ukrainian side, but it is Mrs. Zaharieva's responsibility and responsibility! Once she has committed to leading the Bulgarian foreign policy, she cannot, when there is such a question, be absent! This is ridiculous, what's happening! I can't imagine what the reaction of the Bulgarian government will be with this declaration we oblige it to work for an intergovernmental meeting, to take all possible action before the government of Ukraine. I'm not sure that's enough! Ukraine strives, as we all know, for the European Union. Ukraine seeks an ever more active participation in other international formats involving European countries. Ukraine has been involved in a process called the Minsk Process of the Minsk Agreements, which also sets a number of requirements for the internal legislation and constitutional framework of the state itself. It is high time for Bulgarian diplomacy, the government to think about a comprehensive Bulgarian policy, a comprehensive Bulgarian approach on all these issues! The approval in advance of everything leads us constantly to situations in which we then try to protect our post-factum interests! I don't want to set an example here with a treaty that we signed and ratified three years ago Dear colleagues, the initiative is urgent, the responsibility of the government is clear, the absence of the foreign minister also I think it should not be questioned and it is scandalous. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u11	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Are there any lines to Mr. Zablyanov's statement? I can't see. Mr. Shopov, come in for a statement. [[Calling from OP: "Sapoon, soap!"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Bring order when idiots call here and there from the gym...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u13	Mr. Shopov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u14	...and hold back, in mother tongue. The introduction and examination of this declaration today points to a systemic problem in the management of the National Assembly. This is the so-called independent, and we are six people from the party Ataka, and two other esteemed Members of the National Assembly, we are not informed of such initiatives. This morning, with great amazement, we saw this declaration being presented, and it is an important act. The problem of the rights of Bulgarians in countries closer to and further away from Bulgaria has erupted continuously, especially recently, and we are suffering as a state and as a community of Bulgarians a complete failure! The failure of Mr. Zablyanov a moment ago I think he hinted at that disgraceful treaty three years ago, which led to one of the major betrayals in the history of Bulgaria the fourth in a row with regard to the Bulgarians in Macedonia, for which they will be responsible and from now on they will be held accountable by those of IMRO, who are considered defenders and, in general, flagmen of the Bulgarian idea in this regard. Now here Simeonov has taken, and for some time, the initiative to protect the Bulgarians in Ukraine. Imagine, who knows why Simeonov, what his interests are with regard to Ukraine, what are relations, dependence? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u15	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u16	Perhaps because of his close and friendly relations with a recent ambassador of this country in Bulgaria, which he needed and was evident, was written on his forehead, the word, in Bulgarian to put it, was written on his forehead.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u17	Mr. Shopov, I am making a remark to you in the way you treat your colleagues and the ambassador of a country.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u18	This great friendship of Simeonov also leads to such traps, in which he is now bringing us to see this declaration, which consists of two parts. One part of it is, of course, the protection of the rights of the Bulgarians. For the third time in two years, such a problem arises. Before that, you remember, there were problems in Bolgrad. Once again we were on nails, again on fire we looked at these problems, but on both parts of the declaration yes, declaratively, protection of the Bulgarians there, wishful thinking, very softly, hardly, to pull over the number. The first part: by accepting, by supporting the state of Ukraine... It is precisely the policy of the state Ukraine, and what happened five years ago with the coup, with the bloody coup that happened there, led to these problems because until five years ago the Bulgarian minority in Ukraine had absolutely no problems regarding its identity. [[Noise and lines.]] And from this point of view, you get something like, during communist times, you get the book, the Godfather, packed with selected works, a volume of Comrade Todor Zhivkov, that is, we get some kind of protection, extremely symbolically speaking for such a thing, for such a violation of rights as it is for our compatriots in Ukraine. The reaction should have been considered at the Foreign Ministry, and here the government should have committed itself, had the report been translated in advance, but, you see, he "Simeonov," this does. This has always been his work and on some strange thoughts in his head, circumstances, any reasons, he comes out and serves us something in the form of a bill, in the form of a declaration, as in this case, or some kind of initiative, or a statement that is uninteresting. In soccer, they call it a mystery.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u19	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Just to let you know that last night, after we sent the declarations to all the parliamentary groups, the draft declaration was also sent to your associate. - What's the line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and we have always defended the rights of Bulgarian communities living outside Bulgaria, this policy of ours is consistent and it will continue in the future. As far as the specific declaration is concerned by the texts in the declaration itself, I would like to say that we in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and we share that the commitments made to international acts in which each of the countries is a country, including Bulgaria, apply, including Ukraine, to all countries. We share what is written that minorities are a sensitive part of the countries in which they live. We also share the idea that the European and Euro-Atlantic aspirations of the countries of Eastern Europe, which are not yet members of the European Union and NATO, should be supported by Bulgaria, including the countries of the Balkans, but what is written in the operative part of the Declaration, is also true, on the other hand, that the government of the Republic of Bulgaria should take all possible actions. 105, para. 1 of our Constitution. This is the first point of the operative. On the second point, colleagues, we fully share that the study of the Bulgarian language by Bulgarian communities living outside Bulgaria, i.e. where minorities are, including minorities living in Bulgaria, should be guaranteed. In addition, this is guaranteed in international acts, to which Bulgaria is a country, the study and use of minority languages is guaranteed in our Constitution. 36, para. 2, but in practice, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, we all know that in Bulgaria there are still laws that prohibit the use of languages, even though it is guaranteed by the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, in Bulgaria we all know that learning minority languages is guaranteed under the Constitution and this is the obligation of the executive to provide it, but in practice what happens? Projects submitted to approve textbooks for eight years stood and collected dust somewhere in the executive power. When communities start printing them as study aids submitted approval projects, then executive power jumps. Moreover, after the approval of these same projects, the obligation of the executive is the printing of the textbooks, but for this school year, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, we know that in Bulgaria the Executive Board did not print the textbooks for learning the Turkish language. And we from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, supported by the Ministry of Education and Science, have printed them. Here are the double standards that have them, but to return to the declaration itself. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we believe that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is not solving a single question. It's the executive's duty, and she has to do her job. There is no need for us to remind the executive that we must carry out our duties. This declaration, not solving a single issue, opens very important issues geopolitically, in neighbourly relations, internally and in our view the protection of the Bulgarian community in Ukraine, yes, we share the idea, but this declaration does not solve this issue. From this point of view, we will abstain from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. Are there lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Gazhev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u22	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Republic of Bulgaria has always supported the Republic of Ukraine on its path to European integration and has held a firm and firm position in defence of the interests of the Ukrainian people and state before the various European institutions. On the basis of traditional friendly relations between our two countries in recent centuries is the existence of a large Bulgarian community that currently resides in the territory of Besarabia, in the southernmost part of Ukraine, and especially in the Odessa region. This community has made a serious historical contribution to the construction of statehood, both of the Republic of Bulgaria and of the Kingdom of Bulgaria before that and of Ukraine. The Bulgarian diaspora in Ukraine has always been an integrated part of Ukrainian society. She has also been a loyal partner of the Ukrainian state and actively participates in the process of transition from totalitarian regime to democracy. The Bulgarian minority also paid its heavy tax during the Stalin repression, giving hundreds of thousands of victims during the Golodomora, mass deportations to the east and exiles to the Gulag camps. All of this is mentioned as a background, as I would like to draw attention to how it came to the subject in question that we are discussing today. For about a year and a half in Odessa, administrative reform has been discussed with division and redistribution in the various administrative regions and within the districts. For the Bolgrad region is envisaged its crushing, which the local communities are worried will lead to delict and dissociation of the Bulgarian community in Bolgrad, given that this is the largest Bulgarian region in Odessa. This is addressed both by the local Ukrainian authorities, by the district council of Bolgrad to Radata in Kiev, by our colleagues from this area in Radata of Kiev, of Ukraine, so the topic has been placed repeatedly and with various occasions to the Bulgarian institutions who have taken a position on the topic many times. I give an example that from the beginning of the year, January, the topic was put by Prime Minister Borisov in a conversation with President Zelenski, where he made a commitment that the administrative reform in Odessa should not affect the Bulgarian community. There is also a series of talks by the Bulgarian foreign minister in February. A visit of the Bulgarian foreign minister for May was envisaged in Ukraine on this topic. Unfortunately, during the epidemiological crisis with COVID-19, it was postponed, but yesterday a conversation was held between the two foreign ministers and this position of the Bulgarian state was once again highlighted, so this declaration should not be interpreted as an attempt to interfere with the internal affairs of the Ukrainian state, but as a clear signal that Bulgaria expects Ukraine and the Ukrainian government to fulfil its foreign policy commitments. By the way, from all the institutions that have been alerted over the years with this problem, the National Assembly has had its role not only in hearing representatives of the community in the meeting's portfolio committee, namely that of the Bulgarians abroad, but also had parliamentary control on the subject by the honourable Mr Vigenin and now a logical sequel is this statement. There is another institution that has been alerted, but nothing is heard from it and this is the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, who has known about the topic for a year and a half, but no position, no voice, nor a groan of it has come up on the topic. Unfortunately, he is obviously not committed to the problems of the Bulgarian minority in Ukraine regardless of his visit and commitment in 2018, but this declaration is an important signal, we believe, for the authorities in Ukraine precisely to make it clear that Bulgaria is really following how everyone is fulfilling their commitments. In the end, the right to local self-government was mentioned, as well as the right to self-determination. One of the objectives of this reform in the Odessa region is precisely the upcoming local elections in Ukraine, so is the element of urgency, and why now? Because June is about to come into effect, the reform will end. It must end three months before the elections in Ukraine, which are scheduled for October. This crushing of the district personally worries me that it will lead to less political representation of the Bulgarians in Ukraine, because the crushing of the municipalities can lead to less political representation of the Bulgarians in Ukraine. Fragmentation of municipalities can lead to less political representation of the Bulgarian community there. And here I want to set an example with Europe, because we are in Europe, but Ukraine is seeking the European Union. The example of all member states is to enable small communities, minorities in them to have their representation in local authorities. It is no coincidence that in all documents, in the treaties on the European Union it is stated that the citizens of the European Union can vote in other member states in local elections precisely to have their local representativeness in the areas where they live and therefore it is important for us that Ukraine shows that it really seeks European standards and adheres to these high European standards and does not threaten in any way the right to self-determination and representation of the Bulgarian community there. After all, both sides have always stated that this nearly 200-thousand community is a bridge between our two countries and, accordingly, let us show that it is one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Gadget. - What's the line? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. Are there any other speeches, colleagues? I won't. Then it's a procedure. Mr. Popov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please, before the vote on this declaration of recess of 30 minutes, so that it can be discussed in our parliamentary group our position, as well as in the other parliamentary groups. I think this is an extremely important issue, and it is not in such a quick way to make a decision. May I take a break, please?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u25	You're holding up to 30 minutes well. I'm closing the debate. We'll resume work in 30 minutes. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u26	Please invite the Quaestors to the House. The debates on the Declaration were closed. Colleagues, Mr. Vigenin has a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u27	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of Parliament, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria, I propose that the vote on the Declaration be postponed, that a discussion be held in the Committee on Foreign Policy with the participation of Minister Zaharieva, where the arguments, the future steps that the executive authority will take and, when there is sufficient preparation, we return to this declaration to be addressed to the Parliament of Ukraine, which are our partners, so that we can achieve the result that we aim with this declaration in a co-ordination of executive and legislative power. We believe that its adoption today, now, can have a counterproductive effect in the situation in which the political process is now in Ukraine, firstly. Secondly, we believe that the political and diplomatic signal to the Ukrainian country has already been given with the discussion and the views expressed on how in Bulgaria the main political groups view the rights of the Bulgarian minority in Ukraine. However, we also believe that putting the Ukraine's government institution to a conclusion right now would be counterproductive. However, let us take our firm position when it is clear what the decision of the Council of Ministers of Ukraine is. From there on, as in any parliamentary procedure, this decision will be tabled in the Ukrainian Rada and from there opens up the possibility of our actions. We also express our strong disagreement and amazement that on such a serious issue that the National Assembly is discussing, the executive...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u28	Time, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u29	...power is absent and Minister Zaharieva is not here to express her opinion on this. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u30	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. I put to the vote the procedural proposal of the MP Christian Vigenin. They voted 185 MPs: 84, against 25, abstention 76. The offer is not accepted. Colleagues, I vote on the draft declaration on administrative and territorial reform in Ukraine and the protection of the rights and integrity of the Bulgarian community. They voted 130 MPs: 109, against 2, abstention 19. The motion is accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u31	Thank you, Madam President. I'm asking for a re-voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u32	Thank you. Please vote on such a re-voting procedure. They voted 128 MPs: 109, none, abstention 19. The proposal is accepted, and with this the text of the Declaration. The declaration will be sent immediately to the Ambassador of Ukraine. We continue with the next item on the agenda: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF THE AGROCTION CAREER. Mrs. Belova, would you like to introduce us to the report?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u33	Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please be voted on tolerance to the meeting of the National Assembly for: Assoc.Prof. Dr. Ianko Ivanov, Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry; Dr. Ilian Kostov, Deputy Director of the Food Chain Risk Assessment Centre; and Dr. Petya Petkova, Director of the Agriculture and Forestry Department at the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u34	Thank you, dear Mrs. Belova. I request a voting regime for the admission of those persons by Mrs. Belova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u35	They voted 104 MPs: for 104, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Invite those admitted to the hall. Please continue with the presentation of the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u36	Report on Agrofood Chain Management Act No 002-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 February 2020, adopted on the first vote on 7 February 2020. The second vote. "Agrofood chain management service. " The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. "Chapter 1" - General. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter One. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 1: Art. 1. This law lays down: 1. the bodies implementing the state policy, official control and other official activities of the agri-food chain; 2. the authorities assessing the risk of the agri-food chain and exchanging information on the risk of the agri-food chain; 3. the general requirements for carrying out official controls and other official activities on the agri-food chain in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria; 4. the specific requirements for official controls and other official activities on food in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria; 5. the terms and conditions for: (a) the development and implementation of the Multiannual National Control Plan (MNPC); (b) sampling, determination of laboratories for official controls and national reference laboratories; 6. the coordination and interaction of the authorities of the official control of the agri-food chain with other bodies; 7. the implementation of administrative assistance and cooperation in the field of the agri-food chain between the competent authorities of the Republic of Bulgaria, the other Member States, the European Commission and the other institutions of the European Union; 8. the use on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of the official control information management system (IMSOC) pursuant to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1715 of 30 September 2019 laying down rules for the functioning of the official control system and its components (OB, L 261/37 of 14 October 2019.) 9. measures for crisis management and emergency situations in the agri-food chain; 10. financing of activities related to official controls and other official activities of the agri-food chain.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u37	Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I shall put the following texts to the vote: the text of the importer on the name of the Law; the text of the importer on the name of Chapter One; and the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 1. Vote 95 MPs: for 94, against no, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u38	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 2 to be rejected. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 3 to be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u39	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the rejection of art. Art. 2 and Art. 2 3 by importer. Vote 98 MPs: 96 against 1, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u40	The competent authorities of the agri-food chain. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Two. "Department I" "State Policy Authorities". The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for the name of Section I: The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 4 which becomes art. 2: Art. 2. (1) The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, the Minister of Health and the Minister of Economy conduct state policy on the agri-food chain. (2) The Minister of Environment and Water and the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall conduct state policy in the field of genetically modified organisms (GMOs) under the Law on Genetically Modified Organisms and shall coordinate the activities of the control bodies related to the implementation of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u41	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Two; the version proposed by the Commission for the name of Section I; and the version proposed by the Commission for the text of Article 2. 4 which becomes art. 2. Vote 94 MPs: for 93, against no, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u42	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 5 which becomes art. 3: Art. 3. Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry conducts state policy regarding: 1. the health of plants; 2. the health of terrestrial and aquatic animals.. kept or wild, as well as of embryos and germinal products; 3. animal welfare; 4. veterinary medicinal products and the use of in vitro diagnostic veterinary medicinal products; 5. feed; 6. the safety, protection of the health and interests of consumers in the production, distribution and placing on the market of foodstuffs, with the exception of bottled natural mineral, spring and table waters, ethyl alcohol, spirits of agricultural origin and spirits; 7. animal by-products and derived products not intended for human consumption; 8. genetically modified food and feed, with the exception of the release of GMOs into the environment; 9. laboratories in the system of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry in which analyses, tests and diagnostics of elements of the agri-food chain are carried out; 10. the postings; 11. plant reproductive material and genetic resources in plant farming; 12. genetic resources in livestock farming and breeding with them; 13. residues of veterinary medicinal products; 14. plant protection products, fertilisers, soil improvers and soil substrates; 15. smoking condensants, primary tar fractions and smoking flavourings; 16. the wine sector; 17. organic production and labelling of organic products; 18. the production and labelling of foods and products with protected designations of origin, protected geographical indications and traditional specialities guaranteed and the use of the optional term for quality The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 6 which becomes art. 4. Art. 4. The Minister of Health conducts state policy regarding: 1. the safety, protection of the health and interests of consumers in the production, distribution and placing on the market of bottled natural mineral, spring and table waters; 2. prevent the spread of infections transmitted to humans through food and water; 3. health claims within the meaning of art. 2nd paragraph 2, t. 5 of Regulation (EC) No 1924/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 December 2006 on nutrition and health claims made on foods; 4. laboratories in the system of the Ministry of Health in which analyses, tests and diagnostics of elements of the agri-food chain are carried out. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 7 which becomes Art. 5. Art. 5. The Minister of Economy shall conduct state policy on safety and quality in the production of spirit drinks, ethyl alcohol and agricultural spirits.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u43	Are there any speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I will put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 5 which becomes art. 3; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 6 which becomes art. 4 and the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 7 which becomes Art. 5. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u44	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 8 which becomes Art. 6: Art. 6. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and the Minister of Health shall jointly conduct state policy regarding: 1. the safety and protection of the health and interests of consumers in the production, processing and placing on the market of: (a) novel foods; (b) foods treated with ionizing radiation; (c) foods intended for infants and young children, foods for special medical purposes, total diet replacements for weight control and foods to which vitamins, minerals and certain other substances have been added; 2. the provision of food information; 3. additives, enzymes and flavourings in foods; 4. pollutants in food; 5. residues of pesticides in food; 6. materials and articles intended for contact with food; 7. the assessment of the risk to human or animal health; 8. national, established or industry food standards; 9. dietary supplements; 10. Foods intended for use in intensive muscle load. Section II - Official control bodies. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for the name of Section II:
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u45	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 8 which becomes Art. 6 and the version proposed by the Commission for the name of Section II. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u46	Under art. 9 has a proposal from the National Representative Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 9, para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Point 3 is out. 2. Point 4 "8" shall become point 8 respectively. 3... 7............................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 9 which becomes Art. 7. Art. 7. (1) Competent authorities within the meaning of art. Regulation (EU) 2017/625 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 March 2017 on official controls and other official activities performed to ensure the application of food and feed law, animal health and welfare rules, plant health and plant protection products, amending Regulations (EC) No 999/2001, (EC) No 396/2005, (EC) No 1069/2009, (EC) No 1107/2009, (EU) No 1151/2012, (EU) No), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) 1. The Ministry of Economy; 2. The Ministry of Environment and Water; 3. The Commission for Consumer Protection; 4. Bulgarian Food Safety Agency (BABH); 5. regional health inspections; 6. the Executive Agency by variety testing, acrobation and seed control; 7. the Executive Agency for Selection and Reproduction in livestock production; 8. The executive agency on the vine and wine. (2) The official control under para. 1 in the structures of the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Defence shall be delegated by the heads of the competent authorities under para. 1 of specialized units. The employees of these units shall meet the requirements of art. 5 (4) of Regulation (EU) 2017/625.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u47	Statements? Mrs. Bachvarova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u48	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposal that has been made in the section.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We had a long debate in the Commission. In any case, the Ministry failed to convince me why the Consumer Protection Commission was involved in all these control bodies and ministries that operate and work on the agri-food chain. In this case, there are eight. Our first objection is that with eight structures that have to carry out official controls, coordination will always be difficult. Secondly, the Commission for Consumer Protection has a completely different function and this function is described in the Consumer Protection Act. What follows the Commission is unfair trade practices. These unfair trade practices are the link between the trader, in this case the retailer, with the end consumer. Here in the management of the agri-food chain unfair trade practices are not subject to management in this chain. Our second objection relates to the fact that there is not a single text in the texts of the Law exactly what the Commission for Consumer Protection will do next. If it is so important that they are part of the agri-food chain, at least some functions should be scheduled as well as for the other structures. Thirdly, during the discussion in the Commission, it was said that spirits disappear if the Consumer Protection Commission is not the one to engage in them. First, the Ministry of Economy is what deals with alcohol, spirits and control. Secondly, the Consumer Protection Commission has absolutely no functions in relation to the sanctions of traders and commercial establishments offering spirit drinks, because administratively, sanctions and administrative acts which are accordingly followed by non-compliance with the requirements for spirit drinks are not part of the functions of the Consumer Protection Commission. Therefore, in our proposal, which is before you, and in the following texts in the Law, which are related to this proposal, we propose that this structure be removed from official control, given that nothing is expected of it, but recorded so, in the Law will create more problems, transfer responsibility and ultimately will not solve in the real sense what this Food Chain Management Act aims, i.e. to create some order in which each institution will know its place, work and activities. Once again, I would like to return to the first reading of the Law when we examined it, that all that is in this law is already described in laws acting on specific structures in the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Health and so on. I mean, these powers are there. Now we put them in the same classmate and we say, that's what they're gonna do, that's what they're gonna do, that's what they're gonna do with clarity. We accept that there may be such approaches, but when, in the final decisions, we include control bodies that have not been part of this system so far, the agri-food chain, we believe that it is not appropriate, so our proposal is in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Are there any lines? Are there any other statements? Let's move on to the vote. I will put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. Vote 81 MPs: 13 against 2, abstention 66. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for art. 9 which becomes Art. 7. Vote 82 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u50	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 10, which becomes art. 8. Art. 8. (1) Ministers under art. 2 and the heads of the relevant departments under art. 7, para. 1, t. 3 s 8 may delegate the implementation of official control activities to one or more delegated or natural persons who fulfil the conditions of art. Article 29 (1) (b) and (c) of Art. 29 (1) (b) 30, paragraph 1, point (b) of Regulation (EU) 2017/625. (2) The delegation shall be carried out by order or contract, subject to art. 28 s 33 of Regulation (EU) 2017/625. The order or contract shall also specify the obligations of delegated bodies or natural persons under para. 1 as well as the method of financing delegated activities. (3) In the case of delegation under para. 1 the Minister or Head of Staff concerned shall inform the European Commission in writing. The notification shall specify the activities to be delegated, delegated or natural persons to whom the implementation of official control activities has been delegated. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 11, which becomes Art. 11. 9. Art. 9. (1) Control of the implementation of delegated activities related to official controls and compliance with art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2017/625. 2 or head of the relevant department under art. 7, para. 1, t. 8. (2) When the implementation of activities under art. 1 paragraph 2 (i) and (ii) of Regulation (EU) 2017/625 of one or more delegated bodies, the respective Minister or Head of para. 1 by order or contract designates an authority for their approval and supervision. (3) The respective minister or head of para. 1 may withdraw the delegation of the implementation of official controls activities under the conditions of art. 33 of Regulation (EU) 2017/625 and under other conditions laid down in the order or contract under art. 8, para. 2. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 12, which becomes Art. 10: Art. 10. The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency shall carry out official controls under this law and under art. 3, para. 1 and 2 of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency Act, art. 28, para. 1 and 2 of the Food Act, art. 4, para. 1 of the Animal Health Act, art. 34, para. Art. 1, Art. 3, Art. 1. 34a of the Law on Feed, Art. 34a. 109, para. 1 of the Law on Genetically Modified Organisms, art. 19 of the Law on Animal Health, art. 48, para. 1 of the Beekeeping Act, art. 3, para. 1 of the Plant Protection Act, art. 59 of the Animal Protection Act, art. 6, para. Article 7 46d of the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture, Art. 25a, para. 1 of the Law implementing the Common Organisation of Agricultural Markets of the European Union and the regulations implementing them.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u51	Statements? I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 10, which becomes art. 8; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. Art. 11, which becomes Art. 11. 9; and the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 12, which becomes Art. 10. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u52	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 13, which becomes Art. 11: Art. 11. Regional health inspections shall carry out official controls under this law and under art. 28, para. 3 of the Food Act, Art. 10, para. 1 of the Health Act and the regulations on their application. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 14, which becomes art. 12: Art. 12. The Ministry of Environment and Water through regional environmental inspections and leads to control of the release of GMOs into the environment under this law, of art. 108, para. 1 of the law on genetically modified organisms and the regulations on their application. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 15 which becomes Art. 13: Art. 13. The Executive Agency shall carry out official controls in accordance with this law and under art. 4 of the Law on sowing and planting material, art. 109, para. 1 of the law on genetically modified organisms and the regulations on their application.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u53	Statements? I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the texts of art. Art. 13, which becomes Art. Article 11; 14, which becomes art. Article 12; and 15 which becomes Art. 13. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted. Colleagues, we're interrupting work for 30 minutes. We'll continue at 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u54	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. We'll continue with art. 16 by importer which, on a proposal from the Commission, must become art. 14. I wonder if it's acceptable for me to present the content of the editorial?! Here you go, Mrs. Belova. You're ending my conflict with your appearance.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u55	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 16 which becomes Art. 14: Art. 14. The Executive Agency for Selection and Reproduction in livestock farming shall carry out official controls under this law and under Article 3. 3b, para. 1 of the Animal Health Act, art. 109, para. 1 of the Law on Genetically Modified Organisms, the Law on beekeeping and the regulations on their implementation. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 17, which becomes art. 15: Art. 15. The executive agency of the vine and wine shall carry out official controls under the order of this law and of art. 2, para. Art. 3 and Art. 182, para. 1 of the Law on Wine and Spirit Drinks, art. 25c of the Law implementing the Common Organisation of the Markets in Agricultural Products of the European Union, art. 109, para. 1 of the law on genetically modified organisms and the regulations on their application.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u56	Thank you, let's stop here. Hey, guys, any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for the texts of art. Art. 16 and art. 17 by importer, which become respectively art. Article 14 15. 70 MPs voted: 69 against 1, no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u57	Under art. 18 has a proposal from the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 18 words and the Commission for Consumer Protection shall be dropped, and the word shall be replaced by the Council of Members of the European Union shall be replaced by the words of the European Parliament and of the Council. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 18, which becomes Art. 16: Art. 16. The Ministry of Economy and the Commission for Consumer Protection shall carry out official controls under this law and under art. Article 111 of the Law on Genetically Modified Organisms, Art. Art. 187 and, respectively, Art. 193 of the Wine and Spirit Drinks Act and the regulations on their application.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u58	Statements? Mrs. Bachvarova? There's no statement, okay. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. Vote 78 MPs: 22, Against 14, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. I am now putting to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 18, which becomes Art. 16. There's no quorum. Please cancel this vote. We don't have a quorum yet. I will put to the vote again the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 18, which becomes Art. 16. Vote 82 MPs: 72 against 6, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u59	Under art. 19 has a proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs: Everywhere in the Bill, the words "chloe." 9, para. 1, t. 3 "8" shall be replaced by "chl." 9, para. 1, t. 3 " 7 ". The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 19 which becomes Art. 17: Art. 17. (1) The competent authorities, control bodies for organic production and delegated bodies shall organise training for officials carrying out official controls and other official activities in the areas of art. 1 paragraph 2 of Regulation (EU) 2017/625. (2) The training shall be carried out by universities, vocational training centres and by the relevant departments under art. 7, including when their employees have completed a training course for the relevant activity. A document shall be issued to persons who have undergone the training. (3) The training programmes shall be approved by the relevant Minister under art. 2 or head of a department under art. 7 in consultation with the Food Chain Risk Assessment Centre.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u60	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. They voted 106 MPs: for 28, against 3, abstention 75. The offer is not accepted. Declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group Mrs. Nino, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u61	Dear Bulgarian citizens! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] The coronavirus crisis didn't just show, it proved... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u62	Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u63	...the need for changes for which, we from Coalition BSP for Bulgaria and we have been talking for a long time... changes in the model of health, economic and social model. Our goal is to restore the economy and care for the people. No one is to be forgotten! The government of GERB and the United Patriarchs is neither aware of this goal nor has the capacity to fulfil it. Their survival is the end of the term. The economic and social measures of the government do not work. The facts prove it: nearly 150,000 new unemployed, 1% of whom received aid under measure 60-40; two months of millions of people who were poor, without work and income in price increases between 10 and 15%; lied farmers that the state would buy them out; lied also that the state would provide them to enter the retail chains; municipalities at the threshold of bankruptcy; tax changes made with the Prime Minister's words: "We will try and if it doesn't work, we will cancel them out. Instability, uncertainty and lack of perspective! That's no way to run a country. We need five things that we started doing. First of all, professionals, economists and financiers, not ladybugs of power make a real assessment and forecast. The Bulgarian government predicts minus 3% of gross domestic product, but the European Commission is estimated to be less than 10%. If it is minus 3%, the deficit will be compensated by 10 billion. lv. A loan, but if it's minus 10%, what will happen, esteemed rulers? Secondly, finances are planned, but long-term plans are planned. Did anyone understand, though, the state of the budget, that last week again, the finance minister said we were at a surplus of a billion and a half, the prime minister again, at minus 3 billion. This should start now and not wait for autumn. We are clear that your goal is to finance everything in the autumn, because elections are coming, to suppress tensions. However, this is not a state-owned thinking. The money invested today will save many of the problems that await us in the fall. Thirdly, the sectors producing the largest percentage of gross domestic product and where there are the most employed workers are defined. Fourth, a comprehensive plan is being made, not in a piece and not due to expected protests in this or that sector, a comprehensive plan for state support for those sectors that will pull the others along with them. Fifthly, the group of people affected by the crisis is defined - poor, unemployed, on unpaid leave, pensioners and grants are provided as does the whole world and the whole of Europe. And it's not money thrown by a helicopter to the wind, it's an investment in the most valuable man. The entire state and institutional resource should be committed to working in this direction. Instead, what are we looking at? In the last few weeks, we've been flooded with recordings, notes, texts, giraffes, giraffes, accepting, not the giraffe. What does that say? The government rules not with visible decisions of the institutions, but with invisible notes between businessmen. The government manages not with control over the State Gaming and NRA, but with valuable instructions to girls in these state services by the Minister of Finance. While you were explaining to us how 20 million for disabled children would collapse the budget and not be in the country, we see that some 20 million were swinging for media funding. Freedom of speech?! This seems to be an illusion in Bulgaria. For years we've been talking, there's a parallel state that kills the real one. She wrapped Bulgaria in a cocoon and pressed it to asphyxiation, and sucked its powers out. From the words, here it is! You've seen her in the last few weeks. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! There is a very wise book that I would recommend to anyone who has decided to pursue politics. It's called why nations fail. Where are the roots of strength, prosperity and poverty? And why do you think they fail? Is it culture, geography, or ignorance of proper policies? No! None of these factors are decisive and crucial from Roman times to this day. At the heart of the success of each nation are the institutions created by man. Borisov's government has done a lot of damage to Bulgaria, but there is one huge Today the backroom rules the state, but it is time to take account and pay a political account. It's time for the Prime Minister, not his fuse box, to give answers. Why him? If the Prime Minister didn't know what was going on in the country, he's not for this job. It doesn't make sense for him to just beautify him. And if he knew and didn't take precautions, he's an accomplice. And today he has to answer, not another fuse: what valuable instructions are given to supposedly independent state authorities, and what do those who give them instructions get against it? How does one businessman commit to another to support him to an independent, I quote, a state body, to assist him with an independent state body, one businessman, to another? Third question, Mr. Borisov: Is there a connection with the 111th place of Bulgaria in freedom of speech and are media funded against political orders? And the most important question: will all this go unpunished, dear Bulgarian citizens? Will there finally be justice? I appeal to all of you brave and sane, loving for Bulgaria, for family and for children people! Don't be afraid! They will divide us, they will oppose us, but we must unite. We can argue about tax systems and health models. We can be different. But we can be one when we need to regain our statehood and subdue it to the service of the people, not to the backstage. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. We continue with the vote. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 19 which becomes Art. 17. They voted 101 MPs: for 101, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u65	"Department III "According to the risk assessment of the agri-food chain and the exchange of information on the risk of the agri-food chain'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section III. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 20, which becomes art. 18: Art. 18. The risk assessment of the agri-food chain shall be carried out by the Food Chain Risk Assessment Centre under the Food Chain Risk Assessment Center Act. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 21, which becomes Art. 19: Art. 19. (1) Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry: 1. coordinate activities for the exchange of risk information under art. Art. 3, par. 13, art. 10 of Regulation (EC) No 178/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 January 2002 laying down the general principles and requirements of food law, establishing the European Food Safety Authority and laying down procedures in matters of food safety, hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EC) No 178/2002'; 2. inform the European Commission and the other Member States of risks arising within the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria within its competence; 3. through BABBH informs the World Organisation for Animal Health of outbreaks of infectious animal diseases and the European and Mediterranean plant protection organisation for plant pests; 4. through the Food Chain Risk Assessment Centre, the European Food Safety Authority shall inform the European Food Safety Authority of its analysis of the safety risks associated with the agri-food chain elements. (2) The Ministry of Health shall, within its competence, inform the World Health Organisation, the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, the European Commission, the European Food Safety Authority and the other Member States of risks arising within the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 22, which becomes Art. 20: Art. 20. (1) Ministers under art. 2, the heads of the relevant departments under art. 7. The Food Chain Risk Assessment Centre and stakeholders shall interact in the process of analysis and exchange of risk information regarding hazards, risks and related factors. (2) The exchange of risk information on the agri-food chain shall include: 1. issues relating to the application of European Union law in the field of the agri-food chain; 2. signals or information related to elements of the agri-food chain; 3. information relating to the coordination and control of the diseases of plants, animals andдаs; 4. other issues related to the risks of the agri-food chain.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u66	Thanks, let's stop here. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put the following texts to the vote: the text of the importer on the name of Section III and the version proposed by the Commission for the texts of art. 20, which becomes art. Article 18; 21, which becomes Art. Article 19; and 22, which becomes Art. 20. Vote 95 MP: for 94, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u67	The Commission generally supports the text of the importer, but proposes art. 23 to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in art. 31.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u68	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject art. 23 by importer. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u69	Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u70	"Chapter 3" Official control of the agri-food chain. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following version for the name of Chapter Three: General requirements for the performance of control of the agri-food chain. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for the name of Section I: "General requirements for the performance of official controls and other official activities on the agri-food chain in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 24, which becomes Art. 21: Art. 21. The ministers of art. 2 and the heads of the relevant departments under art. 7, the control bodies for organic production and delegated bodies relating to official controls shall develop and validate written procedures for carrying out official controls and other official control activities and procedures where they are not regulated in a regulatory act. The Commission generally supports the text of the importer, but proposes art. 25 to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in art. 21. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 26, which becomes Art. 22: Art. 22. (1) Information obtained in carrying out official controls and other official activities may be disclosed to third parties subject to art. 8 of Regulation (EU) 2017/625 and the applicable Bulgarian legislation. (2) Ministers under art. 2 and the heads of the relevant departments under art. 7 establish rules on the order and manner of providing information on the results of the controls carried out, including the provision of the information under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u71	Let's stop here, make a vote, then we'll move on. Are there any speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to a vote: the name of Chapter III and Section I; art. 24, which becomes Art. 21 in the version of the Commission; art. 25 which is rejected; and art. 26 in the version of the Commission, which becomes art. 22. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u72	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 27, which becomes art. 23: Art. 23. In carrying out official controls and other official activities on the agri-food chain, control authorities shall: 1. they are obliged to take immediately the necessary measures to prevent, limit and eradicate animal diseases, tox and toxicoinfections in humans, plant pests and to eradicate crises associated with elements of the agri-food chain without the need for consent of persons operating on the agri-food chain; 2. have the right to require the submission of information, records, documents and other evidence, including data on persons from whom and/or elements of the agri-food chain have been supplied. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 28, which becomes art. 24: Art. 24. (1) The heads of the relevant departments of art. 7 within their competence and depending on the severity of the infringements identified apply one or more of the measures under art. 138 (2) of Regulation (EU) 2017/625. (2) The control bodies shall issue an order to suspend the activity of an establishment operating on the agri-food chain where, in the course of official controls and other official activities, it is established that: 1. the object is not approved or registered in the appropriate order; 2. persons operating under the agri-food chain have not paid the fees due as defined in the tariffs under the relevant regulations under art. 10 - 16 for a period longer than three months from the moment of the occurrence of the obligation. (3) The measures referred to in art. Art. 138, paragraph 2, points (d) and (e) of Regulation (EU) 2017/625 shall also apply in the case of unauthorized access or assistance under Art. 138, paragraph 2, points (e) and (f) of Regulation (EU) 2017/625. 15 § 1 and 2 of Regulation (EU) 2017/625. (4) The measures referred to in art. Paragraph 2 (j) and (j) of Regulation (EU) 2017/625 shall also apply in the case of the issuing of an order to suspend the activity in an establishment where the agri-food chain is operated without the establishment being approved or registered in the appropriate order. (5) The measures referred to in art. Paragraph 2 of Regulation (EU) 2017/625 shall also apply in the event of a danger to human health, animals and plants which is not a result of a breach of regulatory requirements and does not pose a threat under art. 64. In these cases, the implementation of the measures is at the expense of the state budget. (6) When applying a measure under art. Paragraph 2 (h) of Regulation (EU) 2017/625 sets out certification marks and/or indications for distance trading of elements of the agri-food chain for which a protocol is drawn up. (7) The application of measures under art. Paragraph 2 of Article 138 of Regulation (EU) 2017/625 does not exempt guilty persons from administrative criminal liability unless they are subject to more severe punishment. (8) When imposing a measure under art. 138, § 2 (i) and (ii) of Regulation (EU) 2017/625, as well as in the event of cessation of activity at an establishment operating on the agri-food chain, the control authority which applied the measure concerned shall, within three days, notify the other authorities carrying out control functions at the facility for taking action within their competence. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 29, which becomes art. 25: Art. 25. (1) The measures referred to in art. 24, para. 1 shall apply with: 1. a prescription of the official carrying out official controls under art. 138, § 2 (c), (d) and (e) of Regulation (EU) 2017/625; 2. an order from the official carrying out official controls under art. 138, § 2 (c), (d), (e) and (f) of Regulation (EU) 2017/625; 3. an order issued by the head of the relevant department under art. 7 or a person authorised by him or by an act referred to in the relevant regulatory act referred to in art. 10.. 16.................................................................................... 138, § 2 (b) (i) (ii) and (iii) (iv) of Regulation (EU) 2017/625. (2) In the event of the removal of infringements for which measures under art. Art. 138, § 2 of Regulation (EU) 2017/625, under art. 24, para. 2 and 4 and for which a prescription has been issued to prevent and eliminate the harmful effects of the infringement, the control body shall verify and draw up a written record with an opinion to terminate the measure concerned, a copy of which shall be served against the signature of the person carrying out the agri-food chain or an authorised representative. The measure shall be repealed by the above administrative authority or by an official authorised by it. (3) The individual administrative acts under para. 1 shall be notified and may be appealed in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Code. The appeal of the acts shall not stop their execution.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u73	Let's do one vote here, but before that, are there any speeches on these three terms? I can't see. Please then, vote procedure for art. 27, 28 and 29 in Commission Editorials, which become respectively art. 23, 24 and 25. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u74	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 30, which becomes art. 26: Art. 26. (1) The activities of the agri-food chain shall be carried out in establishments which are registered or approved in accordance with the respective regulations under art. 10 - 16 and when issued for them: 1. an authorisation for use under art. 1 entered into force. 177, para. 2 of the Law on the Construction of the Area in the applicable cases; 2. Certificate of putting into service under art. 177, para. 3 of the Law on the Construction of the Area in the applicable cases; 3. permission to build under art. 41, para. 1 of the Law on Construction in the Area............................................................................................................................................................... 4. permission to place under art. 56, para. 2 of the Law on Construction of the (2) The greenhouses under art. 151, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on Construction in the Area are registered only on the basis of an application. (3) The livestock holdings are registered according to the order of the Animal Health Act. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 31, which becomes Art. 27. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 32, which becomes Art. 28: Art. 28. (1) Authorities carrying out official controls on the agri-food chain shall maintain public electronic registers of registered and approved sites with free internet access. (2) The registers shall be established and maintained under the conditions of electronic exchange of documents and connectivity with the other electronic registers of the bodies under para. 1. (3) The acts for registration and approval of the sites in which agri-food chain activities are carried out may be issued as electronic documents. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 33, which becomes Art. 29: Art. 29. (1) Persons operating on the agri-food chain and entitled to a second expert opinion under art. 35 of Regulation (EU) 2017/625, application under the relevant regulation under art. 50, para. 3. (2) To ensure the law under para. 1 sufficient amount of laboratory samples shall be taken in accordance with rules laid down in European Union law in the field of the agri-food chain or in the relevant regulation under art. 50, para. 3. (3) The costs of a second expert opinion under para. 1 shall be at the expense of the person who submitted the application. (4) In the event of a dispute concerning the second expert opinion, art. 35 (3) of Regulation (EU) 2017/625. Other analysis, testing or diagnosis shall be carried out in the national reference laboratory, a reference laboratory of another Member State or another official laboratory designated by the competent authority and determined pursuant to art. 37 of Regulation (EU) 2017/625. The results of the analysis, testing or diagnosis shall be final. (5) Other analysis, testing or diagnosis shall not be permitted where: 1. the frequency of occurrence of danger is particularly low in the animal or commodity; 2. the spread of the danger is extremely weak or uneven; 3. an assessment of the presence of quarantine pests shall be carried out; A microbiological analysis shall be performed 4. (6) The submission of an application for a second expert opinion shall not suspend the performance of the duties of the control bodies under art. 35 (4) of Regulation (EU) 2017/625. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 34, which becomes art. 30: Art. 30. The official control of the agri-food chain of all operators shall also be carried out on complaints and publications.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u75	Maybe we should stop here and have another vote. Are there any speeches on these articles? I can't see. Please, vote procedure under art. 30, which becomes art. 26 in the version of the Commission; art. Art. 31, which becomes Art. Article 27; 32, which becomes Art. 28 in the version of the Commission; art. 33, which becomes Art. 29 in the version of the Commission; and art. 34, which becomes art. 30 also in the Commission's version. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u76	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 35, which becomes art. 31: Art. 31. (1) Ministers under art. 2 and the heads of the relevant departments under art. 7, within their competence, approve by order rules under art. 140 paragraph 2 of Regulation (EU) 2017/625 for the submission and examination of alerts for infringements or suspicions of infringements of Regulation (EU) 2017/625, of that law and of the relevant regulations under art. 10-16. (2) The bodies referred to in para. 1 within their competence, examine any alert relating to a request for assistance or the provision of information received from other administrative authorities or persons. (3) Upon receipt of an alert, the relevant administrative authority shall: 1. register the signal; 2. verify the facts and circumstances of the alert and take the necessary action in the event of findings of non-compliance with the regulatory framework; 3. inform the person giving the signal of the actions taken under point 3. 2. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 36, which becomes art. 32: Art. 32. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, on a proposal from the Executive Director of BABBH, shall inform the European Commission of the places for the introduction into the European Union of the elements of the agri-food chain when official controls are required in the introduction under European Union law in the field of the agri-food chain. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 37, which becomes Art. 33: Art. 33. (1) The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall, on a proposal from the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, lay down by order a list of border control posts to carry out official controls on one or more categories of animals and goods under art. 47 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2017/625. (2) The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall inform the European Commission and the other Member States of: 1. Withdrawal of the designation of a border control post according to art. 62 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2017/625 and the reasons therefor; 2. suspension of the designation of a border control post within the meaning of art. 63 of Regulation (EU) 2017/625 and the reasons therefor; 3. revocation of the suspension of the designation of a border control post and the reasons for that. (3) The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall revoke the suspension of the designation of a border control post as soon as it has submitted to the European Commission and the other Member States the information on the basis of which the suspension is cancelled. (4) The list of border control posts under para. 1 shall be published on the website of BABBH and shall contain the information referred to in Article 1. 60 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2017/625. The list shall be updated in the cases under para. 2 and subject to art. 63 of Regulation (EU) 2017/625. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 38, which becomes art. 34: Art. 34. (1) Where the applicable law of the European Union or the regulations referred to in art. 10 - 16 provide for the issue of an official certificate or official certificate, the ministers of art. 2 and the heads of departments under art. 7 By order shall designate officials who are authorised to sign official certificates and certificates. (2) Ministers under art. 2 and the heads of departments under art. 7 by order approve rules ensuring the prevention of the issuance of false or misleading official certificates or certificates or the misuse of them.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u77	Let's stop here and make a vote. But before that, is there a statement on the four members presented? I can't see. We're going to vote on art. 35, 36, 37 and 38, which become respectively art. 31, 32, 33 and 34 in the version of the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u78	Section II - Specific requirements for official controls on foodstuffs. The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle and proposes the following version for the name of Section II: the requirements for official controls and other official food activities in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 39, which becomes art. 35: Art. 35. The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency shall carry out official controls and other official food activities as required by the applicable European Union food law, this law, the Food Law and the regulations governing their application. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 40 to be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u79	Okay, maybe we can get this far. However, are there any statements on the name of the Section under art. Art. 39 and, respectively, Art. 40? I can't see. We shall proceed to a vote on the name of Section II in the version of the Commission, art. 39, which becomes art. 35 in the version of the Commission and for rejection of art. 40. Vote 89 MPs: 88, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u80	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 41, which becomes art. 36: Art. 36. The Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall, by regulation, determine the control measures of: 1. environmental pollutants in animals, food of animal origin, feed materials, feed additives, compound feed and medicated feed, drinking water which comes into contact with raw materials and food of animal origin, and water at fish breeding and farming sites and other aquatic organisms; 2. residues of veterinary medicinal products in food of animal origin and water at the sites of fish breeding and farming and other aquatic organisms. The Commission proposes to create a new art. 37: Art. 37. (1) For the implementation of the control under art. 36 BABBH annually develops and implements a National Monitoring Program. (2) The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency shall present the programme under para. 1 for the current year for approval by the European Commission. (3) The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency shall inform the European Commission annually of the results of the implementation of the programme from the previous year. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 42 to be rejected. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 43, which becomes Art. 38. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 44, which becomes Art. 39.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u81	Let us vote so far that there are proposals for setting up, for dropping out of membership. Are there any statements on the texts? I can't see. We're going to vote on art. 41, which becomes art. 36 in the version of the Commission; for the creation of a new art. 37; for rejection of art. Article 42; for Art. 42 Art. 43, which becomes Art. Article 38; and 44, which becomes Art. 39. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u82	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 45, which becomes art. 40: Art. 40. In carrying out official controls and other official activities on animals, food of animal origin, germinal products or animal by-products at border control posts, the decision on consignments of fishery products, live bivalve molluscs, live echinoderms, live mantles and live marine gastropods intended for human consumption, except by an official veterinarian, may also be taken by officials who have undergone appropriate training and designated for that purpose, by order of the Executive Director of BABMH, in accordance with the requirements of art. 55 (3) of Regulation (EU) 2017/625. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 46, which becomes art. 41: Art. 41. (1) Official controls and other official activities in establishments for the production and processing of meat of domestic ungulates, birds and lagomorphic and game meat shall be carried out by official veterinarians and inspectors. (2) Official veterinarians under para. 1 meet the requirements of art. 9, para. 2 of the Animal Health Act and have all the powers under Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/627 of 15 March 2019 laying down uniform practical conditions for the performance of official controls on products of animal origin intended for human consumption in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2017/625 of the European Parliament and of the Council and amending Commission Regulation (EC) No 2074/2005 as regards official controls (OB, L 131/51 of 17 May 2019.). (3) The inspectors under para. 1 exercise control under the supervision of an official veterinarian. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 47, which becomes Art. 42: Art. 42. (1) In the case of a complicated epizootic situation, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall oblige the slaughterhouse business operators to slaughter in their slaughterhouses in connection with the control and eradication of infectious diseases. (2) The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall establish a list of slaughterhouses in which the slaughter under para. 1 on a proposal from the Executive Director of BABBH. (3) The list under para. 2 shall be published on the website of BABBH. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 48, which becomes art. 43: Art. 43. The return of food from wholesale and retail outlets to production sites shall be prohibited, except in the case of art. 19 of Regulation (EC) No 178/2002. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 49, which becomes art. 44: Art. 44. (1) Exports of foodstuffs of animal origin shall be permitted where: 1. Foods shall be produced or processed in establishments approved in accordance with Article 1. 4 (2) of Regulation (EC) No 853/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 laying down specific hygiene rules for food of animal origin, hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EC) No 853/2004'; 2. the exporter has issued a certificate or other export document for foodstuffs of animal origin. (2) The documents under para. 1, t. 2 shall be issued under the terms and conditions of art. 237 and 238 of the Animal Health Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u83	Let's have another vote so far. Are there any speeches on these articles presented by Mrs. Belova? I can't see. We are going to vote on Articles 45, 46, 47, 48 and 49, which become Articles 40, 41, 42, 43 and 44 respectively in the version of the Commission on each of them. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u84	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 50, which becomes art. 45: Art. 45. The damage caused by the provision of incomplete or false information for the issue of the documents under art. 44 are at the expense of the beneficiary. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Article 51, which shall become Article 51. 46. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 52, which becomes art. 47: Art. 47. The damage and the lost benefits arising from the issued orders under art. 46 are at the expense of the owners of the sites subject to control.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u85	I suggest we close the section with one more vote. Are there any speeches? I can't see. We're going to vote on art. 50, which becomes art. 45 in the version of the Commission; art. Article 51, which shall become Article 51. 46 according to the text of the importer; and art. 52, which becomes art. 47 in the version of the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u86	"Department III "Multi-annual National Control Plan ". The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle and proposes the following version for the name of Section III The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 53, which becomes art. 48. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 54, which becomes art. 49: Art. 49. (1) The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall draw up and send to the European Commission an annual report on the implementation of the MHPC. (2) The heads of the relevant departments of art. 7 years by 30 April, the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall submit to the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry an annual report on the implementation of the MHPC for the previous year. (3) The report under para. 1, as well as the data under para. 2 shall be sent, respectively, by completing the relevant form under Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/723 of 2 May 2019 laying down rules for the application of Regulation (EU) 2017/625 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the standard model form to be used in the annual reports submitted by the Member States (OB, L 124/1 of 13 May 2019.). (4) The control bodies under this law and the relevant regulations under art. 10 " 16" within its competence. Section IV - Conditions and order of sampling, determination of laboratories for official control purposes and of national reference laboratories The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle and proposes the following version for the name of Section IV The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 55, which becomes art. 50: Art. 50. (1) The sampling and carrying out of analyses, tests and diagnostics of elements of the agri-food chain shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements of the applicable European Union law. (2) The sampling and carrying out of analyses, tests and diagnostics of plants and plant products, plant protection products, plant reproductive material and for the purposes of zootechnical checks shall be carried out under the applicable law of the European Union and the Bulgarian legislation in this area. (3) The conditions and procedures for sampling and carrying out analyses, tests and diagnostics of elements of the agri-food chain for which there are no requirements of the law of the European Union or the Bulgarian legislation shall be determined by a regulation of the respective Minister under art. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u87	Let's stop here, let's do in the meantime disinfect until the vote passes. Just one clarification: maybe I didn't hear well, but in art. Art. 54, which becomes art. 49, para. 3 is 13 May 2019. I thought it was 12 May, but let's still make this clarification "Maybe I haven't heard very well." Statements? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. Please provide a procedure by the name of Section III in the version of the Commission; art. Art. 53, which becomes art. Article 48; Art. 54, which becomes art. 49 in the version of the Commission; the name of Section IV in the version of the Commission; and art. 55, which becomes art. 50 also in the Commission's version. Vote 81 MPs: for 80, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u88	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Article 56, which becomes Art. 51: Art. 51. (1) The analysis of samples, tests and diagnostics for the purposes of official controls shall be carried out in their own laboratories of the departments under art. 7, para. 1 or in other laboratories meeting the criteria under art. 37 paragraphs 4 and 5 of Regulation (EU) 2017/625. (2) The heads of the departments of art. 7, para. 1 determine by order the official laboratories in which analyses, tests and diagnostics of elements of the agri-food chain are carried out for the purpose of official control, subject to the requirements of art. 37 paragraphs 1, 3, 4 and 5 of Regulation (EU) 2017/625. The list of designated laboratories shall be published on the website of the relevant office. (3) The rules and procedures for the designation of official laboratories shall be determined by the head of the relevant department under art. 7, para. 1. (4) Where a laboratory included in one or more lists under para. Article 2 does not comply with the requirements of Article 2. 37 (4) of Regulation (EU) 2017/625, the head of the relevant department under Article 37 (4) of Regulation (EU) 2017/625. 7, para. 1 with a warrant erases her from the list. (5) The order under para. 4 is reported and can be appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code. The application of the order shall not stop its execution. (6) Ministers under art. 2 and the heads of the relevant departments under art. 7, para. 1 may, by order, designate as an official laboratory such a laboratory which does not meet the requirements of art. 37 (4) (e) of Regulation (EU) 2017/625 but meets the requirements of art. 40 of Regulation (EU) 2017/625. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 57, which becomes art. 52: Art. 52. (1) Ministers under art. 2, within their competence, appoint national reference laboratories by order to examine the elements of the agri-food chain which meet the requirements of art. 100 paragraphs 2 and 3 of Regulation (EU) 2017/625. (2) Ministers under art. 2 shall inform the European Commission, the European Union reference laboratory concerned and the reference laboratories of the other Member States of the national reference laboratories designated by them.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u89	Now let's finish the chapter with one vote. Are there any statements under art. 56 and 57? I can't see. Then let's move on to voting on art. Art. 56 and art. Art. 57, which become respectively art. Art. 51, Art. 52 in the version of the Commission. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u90	"Chapters 4 and 4" and interaction with other authorities. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following version for the name of Chapter Four: "Coordination and interaction of official controls on the agri-food chain with other authorities'. Under art. 58 has a proposal from the MP Andrian Raykov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 58, which becomes art. 53: Art. 53. In carrying out official controls in the introduction of food and feed subject to increased control within the meaning of art. 47 (1) (d) of Regulation (EU) 2017/625, as well as live animals and food of animal origin in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria from third countries, BABH shall interact with the Customs Agency as required by art. 75 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2017/625 and the applicable Bulgarian legislation. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 59, which becomes art. 54: Art. 54. The authorities of the Ministry of Interior, as well as the other state and municipal authorities, within their competence, shall be obliged to assist the ministers of art. 2, para. 1 of the heads of the departments of art. 7, para. 1, t. 8 and their employees in the prevention, suspension and detection of violations of the agri-food chain and in the application of forced administrative measures by the authorities which carry out official controls and other official activities in the agri-food chain. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u91	Guys, I'm sorry. There's been a lot of noise in the room. If I may, the more silent tone of conversation may be held either outside or outside. Proceed, Mrs. Belova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u92	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 60, which becomes art. 55: Art. 55. (1) The agri-food chain control bodies shall, within their competence, draw up a plan for implementing recommendations to address non-compliances identified in audits or missions of the European Commission. (2) When the recommendations under para. 1 shall target more than one control body, a common plan shall be drawn up to address the non-compliances. (3) Ministers under art. 2 by order establish rules for ensuring coordinated action of control bodies in the agri-food chain in established cases and received signals of fraudulent or misleading practices in the areas of art. 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) 2017/625. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 61, which becomes art. 56: Art. 56. At the request of the ministers under art. 2, para. 1 and the heads of the relevant departments of art. 7, para. 1, t. The Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice provide information and, if necessary, access to the sites they manage. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 62, which becomes Art. 57.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u93	We'll stop there. Are there any speeches on the Members represented in the Commission's version? I can't see. We are going to vote on the name of Chapter Four in the version of the Commission; art. 58, 59, 60 and 61 which become respectively Art. 53, 54, 55 and 56 in the version of the Commission; and 62 by importer, which becomes art. 57. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u94	"Chapter 5" "Administrative assistance and cooperation in the field of the agri-food chain between the competent authorities of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Member States and the European Commission." The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following version for the name of Chapter Five: Implementation of administrative assistance and cooperation in the field of the agri-food chain between the competent authorities of the Republic of Bulgaria, the other Member States, the European Commission and other institutions of the European Union. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 63, which becomes Art. 58. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 64, which becomes Art. 59. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 65, which becomes art. 60: Art. 60. The European Commission's systems for the management of information and data related to official controls shall be: 1. the official control system (IMSOC) including the food fraud network (AAS - FF) to prevent or eliminate risks that may arise, directly or through the environment, for humans and animals, or to reduce those risks to an acceptable level, to ensure fair practices in food and feed trade, and to ensure the protection of consumer interests, including labelling of food and feed, and any other form of information intended for consumers; 2. the system for the management of applications for plant protection products pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 October 2009 concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market and repealing Council Directives 79/117/EEC and 91/414/EEC (OB, L 309/1 of 24 November 2009).) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009). The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 66, which becomes Art. 61.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u95	Are there any speeches on these articles? I can't see. We are going to vote on the name of Chapter 5 in the version of the Commission; art. Art. 63, Art. Art. 64, which become respectively art. Art. 58, Art. 59 by importer; art. Art. 65, which becomes art. 60 in the version of the Commission; and 66, which becomes Art. 61. Please, vote procedure. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u96	"Chapters 6 and 6 of the crisis management measures, emergency situations related to the agri-food chain'. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following version for the name of Chapter Six: The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 67, which becomes Art. 62: Art. 62. (1) For the implementation of the common crisis management plan referred to in Article 1. 55 of Regulation (EC) No 178/2002, the ministers of art. 2 approve operational contingency plans for food and feed. (2) For the remaining elements of the agri-food chain, outside those under para. 1, the ministers referred to in Article 1. 2 approve operational crisis management plans if necessary. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 68, which becomes Art. 63: Art. 63. The operational plans under art. 62, para. 1 shall be drawn up in accordance with art. 115 (2) of Regulation (EU) 2017/625 of the relevant departments under art. 7, para. 1, t. 3 - and are agreed with the Centre for Risk Assessment on the Food Chain or the National Centres for Public Health under art. 22 of the Health Act. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 69, which becomes art. 64: Art. 64. Where an immediate and major danger arises to humans, animals or plants, the relevant Minister under art. 2, within its competence, by order shall apply one or more of the measures under art. 138, paragraph 2 (d), (e), (f) and (g) and (f) of Regulation (EU) 2017/125. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 70, which becomes art. 65: Art. 65. The order under art. 64 is reported and can be appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code. The application of the order shall not stop its execution.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u97	Are there any speeches, colleagues, on these articles? I can't see. We shall then proceed to voting on the name of Chapter Six in the version of the Commission; and art. Art. 67, 68, 69 and 70 in the version of the Commission, which shall become respectively art. 62, 63, 64 and 65, respectively, for each of them. Vote 85 MPs: for 84, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u98	"Chapter 1 - Financing of activities related to official control of the agri-food chain'. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following version for the name of Chapter Seven: Finance of the activities related to official controls and other official activities of the agri-food chain. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 71, which becomes art. 66: Art. 66. (1) The necessary means to cover the costs of carrying out official planned controls and other official activities of the agri-food chain according to art. 78 of Regulation (EU) 2017/625 shall be provided within the budgets of the relevant ministries under art. 2 and departments under art. 7, para. 1, t. 8. (2) The costs of carrying out official controls and other official activities on the agri-food chain outside those referred to in para. 1 shall be at the expense of persons operating on the agri-food chain. (3) The amount of fees for carrying out official controls and other official activities on the agri-food chain shall be set out in Annex IV of Regulation (EU) 2017/625 and in the tariffs and/or price lists set out in the relevant regulations under art. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Yeah. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 72 to be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u99	Let's get this over with with Chapter Seven. Are there any speeches? I can't see. Let us then proceed to a vote on the name of Chapter 7 in the version of the Commission; art. 71, which becomes art. 66 in the version of the Commission; and rejection of art. 72. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u100	"Chapter Eight" - Administrative Penal Provisions. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Eight. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 73, which becomes Art. 67. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 74, which becomes Art. 68. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 75, which becomes Art. 69. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 76, which becomes Art. 70: Art. 70. (1) which does not comply with a measure under art. Art. 23 or art. 24, para. 1 shall be punished with a fine of 1000 to 1500 BGN and in case of repeated infringement from 1500 to 2000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • (2) When the infringement under para. 1 was committed by a legal person or a sole trader, a penalty of 1000 to 3000 BGN is imposed, and in case of repeated infringement from 3000 to 5000 BGN. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Article 77, which becomes Article 77. 71: Art. 71. Acting in an object which has a certification mark and/or a designation under art. 24, para. 6, is punished with a fine of 5,000 to 10 000 BGN, and in case of repeated infringement of 10 000 to 15 000 BGN. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Article 78, which becomes Art. 72.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u101	Perhaps we should take a vote here, as the Head is bigger and members have fallen. Are there any speeches on the drafts submitted by Members in the Commission's version? I can't see. We are going to vote on the name of Chapter Eight; art. Art. 73, Art. Art. 74, Art. Article 75, which shall become Article 75 respectively. Art. 67, Art. Art. 68, Art. 69 by importer and art. Art. 76, Art. Article 77, which shall become Article 77. Art. 70, Art. 71 in the version of the Commission and art. Article 78, which becomes Art. 72. Please, vote procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u102	They voted 83 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u103	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 79, which becomes Art. 73: Art. 73. (1) Whoever fails to fulfil obligations under art. 42, para. 1 is punished with a fine from 5000 to 8000 BGN and in case of repeated infringement from 8000 to 10 000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • (2) When the infringement under para. 1 was committed by a legal person or a sole trader, a penalty of 10 000 to 15 000 BGN is imposed, and in case of repeated infringement from 15 000 to 20 000 BGN. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 80, which becomes Art. 74. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 81, which becomes Art. 75: Art. 75. (1) Whoever fails to comply with a measure imposed under art. 64, is punished with a fine of 10 000 to 20 000 BGN, and in case of repeated infringement of 20 000 to 50 000 BGN. (2) When the infringement under para. 1 was committed by a legal person or a sole trader, a penalty of 15 000 to 50 000 BGN is imposed, and in case of repeated infringement from 50 000 to 100 000 BGN. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 82, which becomes Art. 76. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 83, which becomes Art. 77. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 84, which becomes Art. 78. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 85, which becomes art. 79: Art. 79. (1) Who, in violation of Art. 1. 5 of Regulation (EC) No 853/2004 placed on the market food of animal origin which does not have a health or identification mark shall be punishable by a fine of BGN 3000 to BGN 5000 and, in case of repeated infringement, from BGN 5000 to BGN 7000. (2) When the infringement under para. 1 was committed by a legal person or a sole trader, a penalty of 7,000 to 10 000 BGN is imposed, and in case of repeated infringement from 13 000 to 15 000 BGN. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 86, which becomes Art. 80: Art. 80. (1) Those who market or trade in foodstuffs of animal origin with a minimum duration or expiration date shall be punished with a fine of 3,000 to 5000 BGN and in case of repeated infringement from 5000 to 7000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • (2) When the infringement under para. 1 was committed by a legal person or a sole trader, a penalty of 7,000 to 10 000 BGN is imposed, and in case of repeated infringement from 13 000 to 15 000 BGN. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 87, which becomes Art. 81. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 88, which becomes Art. 82. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 89, which becomes Art. 83. The Commission does not support the text of the importer for art. 90 and offers to be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u104	That's it. Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 79, which becomes Article 73 of the Commission Report; art. Art. 80, which becomes Art. 74 by importer supported by the Commission; the version of art. Art. 81, which becomes Art. 75 on the Commission Report; the text of the importer for art. 82, which becomes Article 76, supported by the Commission; the text of the importer for art. Art. 83, which becomes Art. 77, supported by the Commission; the text of the importer for art. 84, which becomes Art. 78, supported by the Commission; the version of art. 85, which becomes art. 79 of the Commission Report; the version of art. Art. 86, which becomes Art. 80 on the Commission Report; the text of the importer for art. 87, which becomes Art. 81, supported by the Commission; the text of the importer for art. Art. 88, which becomes Art. 82, supported by the Commission; the text of the importer for art. Art. 89, which becomes Art. Article 83; and the rejection of Art. 83 90. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u105	The Commission proposes to create a new art. 84: Art. 84. Anyone who places on the market food of animal origin, on which no official controls have been carried out within the meaning of this law, shall be punished with a penalty of 3000 to 5000 BGN, and in case of repeated infringement from 5000 to 10 000 BGN. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 91, which becomes Art. 85. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 92, which becomes Art. 86. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 93, which becomes Art. 87. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 94, which becomes Art. 88. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 95, which becomes Art. 89. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 96, which becomes Art. 90. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 97, which becomes Art. 91. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 98, which becomes Art. 92: Art. 92. Administrative penalties under art. Art. 67, Art. 91 shall be imposed if no more severe penalties are provided for in the relevant regulations under Article 91. Article 10 16................................................ The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 99, which becomes art. 93: Art. 93. (1) For other infringements of the regulatory requirements in the field of the agri-food chain outside the cases referred to in art. 67 " 91" and the relevant regulations under art. A fine of 1000 to 3000 BGN is imposed in case of repeated infringement from 3000 to 8000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • (2) When the infringement under para. 1 was committed by a legal person or a sole trader, a penalty of 5000 to 8000 BGN is imposed, and in case of repeated infringement from 8000 to 15 000 BGN. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 100, which becomes art. 94: Art. 94. Where a person commits a repeated infringement of that law or of its implementing regulations within three years of the entry into force of the criminal decree, the fine or penalty shall be tripled. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 101, which becomes Art. 95: Art. 95. In order to carry out systems infringements of this law and its implementing regulations, the fine or penalty payment shall be fivefold the highest fine or penalty imposed. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 102, which becomes Art. 96: Art. 96. (1) The acts for the identification of infringements under art. 67 " 91" shall be composed by the respective ministers under art. 2 and heads of departments under art. 7, para. 1 officials carrying out official controls and other official agri-food chain activities, depending on the scope of their controls. (2) The Penal Orders under para. 1 shall be issued by the ministers referred to in Article 1. 2 and the heads of the departments of art. 7, para. 1 or by officials authorised by them. (3) The revenues from the imposed fines and property penalties shall be entered into the budget of the relevant office under art. 7, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 103, which becomes art. 97. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 104, which becomes Art. 98.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u106	That's it. Statements? I don't see any speeches. Colleagues, I'm voting on the newly created article. 84; the text of the importer for art. 91, which becomes Art. 85, supported by the Commission; the text of the importer for art. 92, which becomes Art. 86 supported by the Commission; the text of the importer for art. Art. 93, Art. 93 Art. 94, Art. Art. 95, Art. Art. 96 97, which becomes art. Art. 87, Art. Art. 88, Art. Art. 89, Art. Art. 90, Art. 91, supported by the Commission; the version of art. 98, which becomes Art. 92 on the Commission Report; the version of art. 99, which becomes art. 93 according to the Commission Report; the version of art. 100, which becomes art. 94 according to the Commission Report; the version of art. Art. 101, Art. Art. 102, which become respectively art. Art. 95, Art. 96 on the Commission Report; and the text of the importer for art. Art. 103, Art. Art. 104, which shall become respectively Art. 104. Art. 97, Art. 98 supported by the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u107	"Additional provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... For the 1. "Agro-food chain" are all stages of the production, processing and distribution of food and feed under art. 3 paragraph 16 of Regulation (EC) No 178/2002, and the production and distribution of plant and animal reproductive material, taking into account all aspects, which have a potential impact on food and feed safety and are treated as a continuous process. 2. The elements of the agri-food chain are: (a) Food under art. 2 of Regulation (EC) No 178/2002, including wine, products obtained from grapes and wine, fruit wines and vinegar under the Wine and Spirit Drinks Act; and ethyl alcohol and spirits of agricultural origin and spirit beverages under the same law; (b) feed according to art. 3 (4) of Regulation (EC) No 178/2002; (c) the animals under art. 4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/429 European Parliament and Council of 9 March 2016 on contagious animal diseases and amending and repealing certain acts in the field of animal health (Law on Animal Health) animal health) (OB, L 84/1 of 31 March 2016)) (d) animal by-products and derivatives products according to art. 3 paragraphs 1 and 2 of Regulation (EC) No 1069/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 October 2009 laying down health rules concerning animal by-products and derived products not intended for human consumption and repealing Regulation (EC) No) (e) residues of veterinary medicinal products according to § 1, point (e) 9 of the Additional Provisions of the Veterinary Activity Act; (f) plant protection products under art. 2 (1) of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 and the use of the products for fertilization; (g) the plant reproductive material according to § 1, t. 5 and 6 of the Additional Provisions of the Law on Planting and Planting material; (h) materials and articles intended to come into contact with food, according to art. Art. 1 (2) and Art. 1 (2) 2 (2) (b) and (c) by Regulation (EC) No is amended as follows: The Council of 27 October 2004 on materials and articles, intended for contact with food and repealing Directives 80/590/EEC and 89/109/EEC. 3. "Significant economic losses" are material damage of more than 50 000 BGN. 4. "Indirect and major danger' is a danger in which harmful effects may occur directly or indirectly to: (a) human health; (b) Agriculture or the environment which endanger national security or the country's economy. 5. "Repeatful infringement" is the infringement committed in one-year period from the entry into force of the criminal Decree imposing an administrative charge on the person punishment for the same by type of infringement. 6. symbols are three or more of the following: the requirements of this law and of the regulations of the its application, carried out over a period of three consecutive years, for which administrative penalties have been imposed on the person with entry in force penal decrees. Under Paragraph 2, there is a proposal from the MP Andrian Raykov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 2 be rejected. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Belova. Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the name of the division; the version of § 1 of the Commission Report and the rejection of § 2 and the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 2. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u109	Madam President, honourable Members, please put to the vote my proposal to extend today's meeting until the adoption of the Law. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u110	Colleagues, there's very little, we're probably five minutes out of the way in two hours, but let's just finish the bill. No more than five minutes! Please, voting mode. [[Reply from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova.]] Mrs. Stoyanova, I know you have a Commission. We will rely on Mrs. Belova to read more quickly the supported proposals. Vote 76 MPs: for 71, against 5, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. We're counting on you, Mrs. Bellova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u111	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following version for the name of the division: Proposal from the National Representative Emil Hristov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposals. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 3: .................................................. In the Act on Veterinary Practice (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 8 is The persons referred to in paragraph 3 shall be the persons referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article and shall be the persons referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article. 1 exercise their powers under this law and under the Agrofood Chain Management Act. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26, para. 1 is created t. 4. "4." University veterinary hospital with clinics. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37 para. Two and three are 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 46l is created a new para. 2: The University of Veterinary Hospitals with Clinics shall carry out animal health activities under art. 2, p. 3 and 5. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 46m the words "al." 1' are deleted; 6. In Section II of Chapter Five, Animal Health requirements for raw materials and foodstuffs of animal origin. 57 "61" is hereby repealed. 7. Articles 62, 63 and 64 are repealed. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 77, para. 2 the words (s) and/or other documents referred to in the regulations under art. The following shall be added in the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of the European Parliament and of the 9. Articles 135 and 136 are repealed. 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 191, p. 3 words.............................................................................. 61, 11. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its 13. Articles 245 and 246 are amended as follows: Art. 245. (1) The transport of animal by-products and products derived thereof shall be carried out with specialised means of transport in accordance with the requirements of Regulation (EC) No 1069/2009. (2) In the case of transport: 1.Food of animal origin shall be accompanied by a document containing the information pursuant to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 931/2011 of 19 September 2011 on traceability requirements established by Regulation (EC) No 178/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council on food of animal origin (OB, L 242/2 of 20 September 2011.), and in which the veterinary registration number of the establishment from which they originate is entered; 2.An animal by-products not intended for human consumption and products derived from animal by-products shall be accompanied by a commercial document modeled in accordance with Chapter III of Annex VIII to Commission Regulation (EU) No 142/2011 of 25 February 2011 implementing Regulation (EC) No 1069/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down health rules concerning animal by-products and derived products not intended for human consumption and implementing Council Directive 97/78/EC as regards certain samples and articles exempted from veterinary checks at the border under that Directive (OB, L 54/1 of 26 February 2011).), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No are to be published in the Official Journal of the European Union'. Art. 246. (1) For registration of a means of transport for the transport of the objects under art. 245, para. 1 The owner shall submit a model application to the Director of the ODBH. The application shall be submitted in person, by proxy, by electronic means under the terms and by the order of art. 5 and 22 of the Law on Electronic Governance or through a licensed postal operator. The application shall be accompanied by a document for a fee paid in the amount set out in the tariff under art. 14, para. 2. (2) Within 7 days of the submission of the application, the Director of the ODBH shall, by order, designate a committee to carry out a verification of the documents submitted and the means of transport for its compliance with the requirements of Regulation (EC) No 1069/2009. (3) The Commission shall submit an opinion to the Director of the ODBH with a proposal for registration or refusal of registration of the means of transport. (4) Within 30 days of the submission of the application, the Director of the ODBH shall enter the means of transport into a register and issue a certificate of registration or reasoned refusal of registration on an irregular basis of the documents submitted or where the means of transport does not comply with the requirements of Regulation (EC) No 1069/2009. (5) Registration shall be unlimited. (6) Refusal under para. 4 is reported and may be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. 14. Articles 247 " 258' shall be repealed. 15. Articles 260 and 261 are repealed. 16. Article 268 is repealed. 17. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 271 c. 1 is 18. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 370, para. 3 after the word "chabinettes" is added as well as from university veterinary hospitals with clinics. 19. Article 437 is repealed. 20. Articles 441 439 are repealed. 21. Articles 442g "442p' shall be repealed. 22. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 469 (a.k.a. 1 the words "or service" shall be deleted. 23. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 words - 150 to 1000 BGN, if no more severe penalty is provided, are replaced by 1000 to 3000 BGN, and if repeated infringement from 3000 to 8000 BGN (b) in para. 2 the words "supplied to 2000" are replaced by "supplied to 8,000" and the words "supplied to 20 000" are replaced by "supplied" 8,000 to 15 000. 24. In Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 38, 41, 65, 67, 95, 100, 105, 114 and 124 are repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u112	So far, Mrs. Belova. Colleagues, since there's a lot more to read, I suggest we vote tomorrow to finish the report in 15 minutes. There's a lot more to read. [[GERB lines.]] Shall we continue? All right, let's move on then.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u113	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In the Law on Feed (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by (a) c. 8 point (b) is amended as follows: Regulation (EU) 2017/625 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 March 2017 on official controls and other official activities performed to ensure the application of food and feed law, animal health and welfare rules, plant health and plant protection products, amending Regulations (EC) No 999/2001, (EC) No 396/2005, (EC) No 1069/2009, (EC) No 1107/2009, (EU) No 1151/2012, (EU) No 6), hereinafter referred to as the Regulation (EU) (b) point (b) is amended as follows: (c) Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1793 of 22 October 2019 on the temporary strengthening of official controls and emergency measures governing the introduction into the Union of certain goods from certain third countries to implement Commission Regulations (EU) 2017/625 and (EC) No 178/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Regulations (EC) No 669/2009, (EU) No 884/2014, (EU) 2015/175, (EU) 2017/186 and (EU) 2018/1660 (OJ L 277/89 of 29 October 2019.), hereinafter referred to as the Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1793. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 33a para. 1 is amended as follows: The official controls and other official activities to comply with the requirements of feed law shall be carried out in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2017/625, the Agricultural Chain Management Act and the implementing regulations. 3. Article 50 is repealed. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 52, para. The words "Regulation (EC) No 669/2009' are replaced by "Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1793'. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1 the words "size 500 to 1000" shall be replaced by "six thousand to three thousand" and the words "six thousand to two thousand" shall be replaced by "six thousand" and "six thousand to eight thousand" shall be replaced by "six thousand" and "six thousand" shall be replaced by "six thousand" and "six thousand" shall be (b) in para. 2 the words "size 1000 to 2000" shall be replaced by "six thousand to eight thousand" and the words "six thousand to four thousand" shall be replaced by "six thousand" and "six thousand" shall be replaced by "six thousand" and "six thousand to four thousand" shall be replaced by "six thousand" and "six thousand" shall be replaced
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Belova. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u115	Colleagues, we have extremely important committees.. Budget of 14.30 and Economics of 14.00. As you know, the first commission of the budget committee depends on the fate of the government as well. So I'm asking you for a procedure to interrupt at 2:00 p.m., there's a lot to read yet, and tomorrow morning we'll continue. I'm sure you'll support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u116	A continuation as a first point and a point for the Ombudsman to become a second point.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u117	First point, yes, first point, second point. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-20.u118	No, no, that's point one... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] When will it be? After the Ombudsman, okay. Let me get this straight. Tomorrow we will continue as a second point after the Ombudsman... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] The second item will be tomorrow after the Ombudsman. To finish, we have very little, Mr. Lazarov, it will just pass the ombudsman's selection point. Colleagues, just a second, let's vote on what Mrs. Bellova read. There are a lot of regulations to read, Mrs. Belova, and we couldn't read our time and finish a little after 2:00. Please vote on the procedure. Vote 84 MPs: 82, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We'll continue tomorrow. Now wait, fellow Members, for us to vote on the read-out by the respective version; the version of § 4, which becomes § 3 of the Commission Report; and the version of § 5, which becomes § 4 of the Commission Report. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted. That concludes today's plenary day. Tomorrow, we continue with the first point of the election of the Ombudsman, the second point: the second vote of the Agricultural Chain Management Bill. The points shall be renumbered for tomorrow. I'm adjourned today's session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
