ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that it be included in the Programme for the Work of the National Assembly, the following additional item: Projects of a decision on amendments to Standing Committees. The importer is Cornelia Ninova, Dimitar Ganchev and Georgi Svilenski, and I propose to become point two for today's plenary session. Please vote. They voted 203 MPs: for 199, they won't mind, they abstentioned 4. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, the first point for today is: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO DISCLOSURE THE MINISTERAL COUNCIL OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA WITH A MINISTER-FREE BORISOV FOR THE REST OF ENVIRONMENT POLICY AND WATERS. The voting of the Draft Decision shall be no earlier than 24 hours after the end of the deliberations pursuant to art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 89, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 109 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly 78 MPs from the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria are proposing that the National Assembly vote mistrust of the Council of Ministers with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov for failure of environmental and water policy. The proposal, together with a motivated draft decision on no-confidence voting of the Council of Ministers, was submitted on 20 January 2020, Monday, at 14.04, with No 054-02-6 on 20 January 2020. On the same day, the materials were distributed by one copy of the parliamentary groups and sent to the MPs in electronic form. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u2	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! I propose a procedure for direct broadcast on the Bulgarian National Television 2 and the Bulgarian National Radio of this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Please vote on the procedure so done. Vote 206 MPs: for 202, no objection, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u4	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen Ministers! There is an extremely important point on a crisis issue for Bulgaria and a vote of distrust on the debate on this vote, but the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Ministers are absent here. Did you contact them? If not, please do so and invite them to come to the National Assembly. At this very moment, I think this is where they belong to listen to the debate on the vote of mistrust, the arguments of the MPs. Please contact them and invite them to come to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Yes, the Council of Ministers has been notified. The provisions of art. 89 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. Art. 109, Art. 111 of the Rules do not require the presence of the Prime Minister. The vote is with the Council of Ministers. Here are the ministers. You see there are still ministers coming, so the Council of Ministers has been notified. [[In the hall comes Deputy Prime Minister Mariana Nikolova.]] Welcome, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. We're moving on. I will now introduce you to the time available to the parliamentary groups for the debate before I give the floor for the motivation of the vote. The parliamentary group of GERB 30 minutes, BSP for Bulgaria I give the floor to the leaders of the no-confidence vote to present us with the motives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u6	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers and MPs! Dear residents of Ruse, Pernik, Lovech, Pleven, Bobov dol, Sliven, Gabrovo and Gorna Oryahovitsa, thank you for being here. This vote is also being tabled on your behalf. Dear professors... [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u7	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u8	...designants, dam builders, treatment plants, water infrastructure of Bulgaria, welcome to you. Thank you for being here. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Thank you for the expertise you gave us. At the moment you may be the most important people in Bulgaria because you can and you know how to get out of this crisis. Welcome to you, too. The call for a vote of distrust of the government of GERB and . United Patriarchs is triggered by failure in the field of environmental protection and water protection. This failure directly threatens the lives and health of Bulgarian citizens. The water crisis in Pernik, and in other cities and villages, the unregulated tons of waste imported into Bulgaria, as well as the dangerous values of the contaminated air are the direct consequence of non-haberier, incompetence and corruption in the government Borisov 3. The crisis is not a natural disaster. She's a management disaster. [[A computer presentation runs during the speech.]] I'm going to start with the policy base. First, laws and regulations. There is a National Strategy for Water Sector Management and Development, Action Plan, Water Act, Environmental and Water Protection Act and many more, as well as dozens of regulations, regulations, regulations, instructions. Adding to them European regulations, there are more than 30 documents, and new ones are currently being written. Of course, you can see that these documents contradict each other in certain parts. There is regulatory chaos on the subject of environmental and water management. This regulatory chaos is strengthened by the functions that the laws assign to the institutions. An institutional one is added to the legal chaos. The institutions that need to pursue an environmental and water policy are more than 11 ministries, agencies, district managers, water operators, associations, mayors. This means chaos and a prerequisite for irresponsibility. The best evidence of this is what is happening in Pernik, where we saw the responsibility transferred from ministers to mayors, from mayors of regional governors who do not know at all that they have a responsibility on this issue, on the water and so on, meaning we have a regulatory, institutional chaos created by the government. The third proof of failure is the facts. Officially, 350 thousand people across the country, but with partial water stops in new and new cities, 500 thousand are in water mode. We are in Europe in the first place in the dirt and we are already condemned by the Court of Justice of the European Union for this. Sanctions are expected, which will be paid by all of you, dear Bulgarian citizens. The World Health Organization in its report writes about Bulgaria:?Fifteen thousand people die prematurely from the contaminated air.?? According to official data at the level of 0.50 in Gorna Oryahovitsa, for example, on January 11th, pollution was moving between 150 and 120. On January 12 in Ruse, between 100 and 150 at 0.50 at the norm, and in some cities it is 20 times the normal rate. According to documents issued by the Ministry of Finance, in five years the government of Borisov has authorised imports of 735 thousand tons of junk from the third world, from third countries outside Europe, of which three tons of hospital waste from Europe is not known how much it is. Almost every day you see new and new cases of unearthed junk. Only one of the 534 companies that have licenses to import junk has received a permit to store a million and 6 tons of waste on a site of 52 decares in the village of Obrucishte. At the TPP, Pernik, TPP, TPP, TPP, TPP, Sliven and TPP, the Prosecutor's Office found mountains of junk. Beautiful Bulgaria was turned by Borisov's government into a dump site. The operators of these scumbags claim they have permission to do so. Who ratted him out?! Who's responsible?! The reasons to get to this factual situation: For the managers: They are organized conspiracy by the BSP against power. Please, colleagues of the ruling majority, if you point out this reason, to look up to these people [[On the balcony of the Chamber]] and tell them: you imagine that you are without water, that you breathe dirty air and walk in masks on the streets; that is not true, it is sabotage from BSP to legitimately elected government. When you say that reason for the situation, explain it to them and not to us. The second reason for the favourite of Prime Minister Borisov and the government is the past. The management of the BSP is, of course, guilty. The money was stopped under the Operational Programme "Environment" because of BSP and during its management. Dear Bulgarian citizens, this is a convenient explanation whenever the government is pressed against the wall, but the truth is this. There is a letter from the European Commission on the freezing of funds under the Programme, in which it writes, I quote: "They are frozen on the basis of an audit for the period 2010 - 2012 concerning gross violations of European financial regulation, gross violations of public procurement rules, a merger of criteria for selection and selection of contractors, as well as unfair treatment of various participants in tender procedures. For the period 2010 - 2012! Who ran the country then? Boyko Borisov. Who's got the money stopped? Because of the management of GERB and of Boyko Borisov, and in the previous term. Those are your reasons, which I hope I have disproved. And now the real ones. The waters. After 10 years of GERB management, approximately 3 billion have been spent. BGN, the loss of water on the grid increased on average from 60 to 61%. Dobrich, Sliven and Shumen 80 and over 80%. Why and where did the money invested supposedly for the renewal of the network, which was renewed less than 1%? Question. In 10 years, three times the price of water for people from 1 to 3 BGN. medium! The result of this increase and the funds raised is 500 thousand per mode, in many places dirty and drinkable water. Why, we ask, and where did the money collected from the people go when the network is not renewed and the quality is poor? Answers do not make sense and logical. After 10 years of management you paid 500 million collected by all Bulgarians to repair dams. The result of this is: 400 are in a transmitable state. Information three months ago by the Minister of GERB, 113 are with an unexplained owner yet. After 10 years of managing GERB and holding the entire power.. legislative, executive, control bodies and so on! And again, the question is: where are the 500 million and why is the condition of the dams? Total silence for the movement of these funds and the result of their investment. The waste is the same chaos. From Bulgarian citizens you collect more fees than the residents of Belgium and England, for example. We pay several times for the same waste, dear Bulgarian citizens, if you do not know. Once you pay a garbage charge, a second time a product fee, a third time the municipalities of your taxes pay a self-participation to the EU funds, and a fourth time, funds are being allocated by the PDOOS. And as a result, in every municipality there's an illegal dump... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u9	Time, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u10	Can I have the time of the band?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u11	Let's transfer it from the time of the group.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u12	...tons of Europeans from third countries, junk, burning and 15 thousand a year dying of this. Where people's money goes is also an unanswered question from you. Why are they paying? To poison them. I'll explain the answer with an example. In addition to various plant and wood waste "Topplofication "Sliven" is authorised to burn and materials unfit for consumption or processing. In 2016, RIEW in Stara Zagora refused investment intention to the investor, saying that an environmental assessment should be made. The investor withdraws the offer, after three months he is importing the same proposal, the environmental assessment should no longer be available and the RIEW gives him permission. The same applies to the Ministry of Health on this project. In the first case they say to them: "You need to evaluate how it will affect health..., after three months they say: "There is no problem, you can do it...................................................................................... How do you explain this: people pay and are poisoned, others pay and accumulate money at the expense of their health?! This is called corruption and it cannot happen without the protection of the government. And now specifically for Pernik. The crisis in Pernik is due to deliberate actions to hide the truth because of the elections, due to party necessity. You have faced a threat to the security and health of 100,000 people. The second reason is lack of care. We've been warning you since September 14 times from here, from this place. You didn't pay any attention to the high, smug, and self-loathing power. You brought this crisis with deliberate inaction because of the elections, and perhaps with deliberate actions, because they have already been arrested, and the court will say. What do we do now? We must certainly all help Pernik. Specific, smart and wise, professional, expert solutions are needed, but panicked by the public tensions rushing to save the government and the personal image of the prime minister, you continue with the mistakes and risk a lot. You have created this crisis. You are now imitating solutions and risking a new one. You keep fooling people that the problem can be solved in 45 days, and yesterday your minister announced that not only are there no pipes for this pipeline, that they are yet to be produced and that 300 TIRs will be sought to drive them here. Be objective and honest with people. Let the ladybirds remain silent at this time and speak to the experts. We have gathered over 20 designers, hydroengineers, dam builders and irrigation systems. Here's what they say about your project. I will present it, thanking them for their expertise and as an alternative, because you are constantly saying: "BSP does not offer anything. " As early as 2017, the Prosecutor's Office found that Beli Iskar Dam poses a danger to the population and material resources. It concerns a large dam in the vicinity of Sofia. Even then Mr. Borisov reacted and said that he urgently ordered the recommendations to be implemented and repairs to be started. It's 2017, we're now 2020, we don't have any of these recommendations and these repairs! Already in 2013 there was a complex expertise carried out by a team of leading Bulgarian specialists in the field of hydrotechnical research, design, construction and operation by the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, the Mining and Geological University, former geology engineers and hydrogeologists from the "Energoproekt" project and so on. Some of them are here. And they say that the wall is in a partially operational state due to the degree of degradation of the concrete, and recommend to begin repair immediately. None of this has been done so far. Only now do you begin to act in the crisis, but please listen to us this time from now on do not say that we scare people and cause fear and panic. Just listen to the voice of reason. It's not political, it's not BSP, it's the people who understand. If you do not do this project wisely, there is a risk of a breakdown of the electricity system. Why? Because if a thousand-year-old has come out of the NPP for repairs or technical reasons, this year has happened three times already, colleagues, the only reserve option for these 1000 megawatts, which, if they come out of power, the only option is to borrow from the Tchaira. That's why he's built, he's filled by "Bellmeken." If there's not enough water in the Belmeken, then there's a breakdown in the energy system. This matter is extremely complex... don't leave it to unprofessionals, but listen to what needs to be done. And this is what we would do if at this point we had to solve the crisis to hear and see that there is an alternative. First, the waters of the pottery and pottery mainly power the dam of Belmeken and for the winter period by the end of March NEK uses the quantities for electricity production. The first thing that needs to be done, we would have done a documented agreement from NEC and ESO to draw the waters from the "Gerner" to the "Belli Iskar." Documented! Because if this continues after May, you will cause a crisis in the energy system. Second, an immediate award by means of an open procedure for a technical project for rehabilitation of the dam of Beli Iskar. Neither do you do the first, nor do I say the second! Third, conduct an open procedure for selecting a contractor for the construction and repair works of the dam. You don't! Fourth, "Sofiyska Water" "Mas Fandakova, listen to it both you and the municipal councilors " must give not only consent to the passage of the waters to Malo Buchino, but also to ensure the safe management of the level of the dam. To do this, you need to develop a hydraulic model for the whole track, because you risk hydraulic shocks with all the consequences. Fifth, immediately put into operation the two main deviations of the dam "Studena." They do not work and the dam "Studena" will never be filled if you do not do so. Next thing you know, whatever you're doing to get water to Pernik, it doesn't make any sense if you don't replace the water supply network, because it'll run out on the streets again. And lastly, we see you're confused again about who's going to take the bill for this whole situation. Sofiyska voda and Sofia Municipality say: "It won't be us, it won't be us, it won't be us, it won't be us, it won't be us, it won't be us, it won't be us, it won't be us, it won't be us, it won't be us, it won't be us, it won't be us, it won't be us, it won't be us, it won't be us, it won't be us. Dear ruling and Bulgarian citizens, VIK Pernik is in actual bankruptcy! They have claims for more than 2 million, and they owe much more... they cannot pay these costs. In the end, everything will fall on your back. Therefore, because you do nothing of what we have proposed many times, including now, you have created a crisis, you are imitating solutions and you are in danger of creating a new crisis. In general, the entire management of GERB is crisis management, which you create yourself because of lack of care, incompetence and corruption. The risks, dear Bulgarians, are not in nature, are not in the transmission network. The government of Borisov is no longer a risk to Bulgaria! So far it has been harmful, but now it is potentially dangerous and it is a risk to Bulgaria! His stay in power guarantees new crises. So every change for the better goes through his resignation first. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u13	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Colleagues, we're moving on to the debate. I would like to ask for a tolerant debate, to respect the rules of procedure, and I will not tolerate time violations. We're starting the debate. First, Mr. Markov said. Please give a sign if you wish to express yourself we can make a list of speakers.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u14	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and ministers! We are on the 30th anniversary of the first free and democratic elections and are doomed on 7 June to mark this great date when after 45 years of totalitarian rule 92% of the Bulgarians voted freely and chose not anything but a Grand National Assembly. Now on the tenth anniversary National Assembly we are looking at a vote of mistrust, yet another one, and in the light of the circumstances in this House I am the only one who in 1990 participated in a vote of mistrust of your government of Mr. Lukanov. I voted against his resignation, which was imposed by a nationwide dramatic strike. And that is why I will make the analogy between the first vote of distrust because of a national crisis and the one in which there is a regional crisis, undoubtedly, for water in Pernik. Ninetyth year something happened that no one had ever thought of on the Orlov Bridge, when we sang the songs of the UDF, when on December 14th we cried: "Down BCP!" when two million and 300 thousand people voted for us, no one expected that from this tribune the Union of Democratic Forces would demand a vote of mistrust and offer you, in those times of severe political clash, when the ballots were even blue and red when the squares were echoing: "Dulu BCP!"........................... we will not communism!............ we gave you our hand to make a coalition government in the name of Bulgaria. You didn't ask. You were shot down by a strike with a capacity of a million and 60 thousand strikers, and Sofia was paralyzed by an unprecedented civil disobedience in Europe. There was neither railway nor road transport, BGA "Balkan" stopped the flights. You've been taken down, and here in this room, right in that row, I voted without ever thinking about Communists joining the government. I voted for Sasho Tomov to become Deputy Prime Minister, Emilia Maslarova to become a social worker, Pencho, whom we met and then became friends with at the Constitutional Court. I voted for three ministers from the UDF to join a coalition with you: Ludzhev, Deputy Prime Minister, Pushkarov and Kostov, under the auspices of a prime minister who was a partyless Mitko Popov, and I have made a contribution to the Minister of Interior being a non-party. I offered him to Ludzhev as Justice Minister, became a last-minute spinner, we brought Hristo Danov, his old farm wife, Danny Hadzhieneva, alive and able to confirm.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u15	The weather, Mr. Markov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u16	Why did we do this, the big question will be asked by young MPs and young voters? Because we could not bear the Bulgarians throughout the country to live skotski. And you did after 46 years of government to live skotski. 'Cause it's kind of weird that you can't buy food for your kids to have a husband go to a queue at 5:00 p.m. at 6:00 p.m. to be replaced by the wife, then the grandparents, if milk comes for the kids?! [[Noise, lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Foreign correspondents took pictures... [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria ":" On the topic! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u17	On the subject, Mr. Markov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u18	... on the queue of Vitosha Boulevard from the current establishment, then was the grocery store, the most popular one on the Vitosha Boulevard, turning to the pharmacy of............................................................................... the old............................................................................................................................................................ People were dying, there was no gas, and ambulances were loading at the police station, as far as there was gas at all. People died without painkillers because they didn't even have cotton and aspirin. [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria ":" There is no water now! "]] That was Lukanov's winter. [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria ":" On the topic! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u19	On the subject, Mr. Markov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u20	Now, on the subject, let me tell you. [[Laughter from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Look how smart you think we should come to the subject. Well, today's topic is, thank God, not a national disaster, because our growth is third in Europe - Hungary - 5.1, Poles - 4.7, and then it's us. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The theme is that you have veterans in the party. How did it not come to your mind to ask them how to act in times of disasters?....................... whether it is natural or not, whether it is a production accident, whether it is a product of long-term governance, including yours? Because then, fellow Members of the BSP, do you know who signed the political agreement with you, the sufferer who went through the communist camps - Dertliev, Milan Drenchev, Savov?! The victims signed with the executioners to save Bulgaria! Today, how did it not occur to you that there was a disaster in Pernik and to say: we are declaring war on the disaster, not on the government? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] There is no statute of limitations in the Constitution, no statute of limitations, and you may request a vote of distrust later. You want a feast during the plague! And now listen, rather, to the voters to hear what you are pushing them to: not to go to Bulgaria's Prime Minister in Pernik and to solve the crisis, but to spin a constitutional roulette if the government is overthrown, and to run with the folder to the President back and forth, I do not know what she will do, then Mrs. Nino and her to run to the President, and finally, of course, there will be a third political force that will not be found one year before the elections are made nationally responsible and ask for a coalition government, salvation and so on. And finally come to the word you want. Official government, that's what you're offering! Well, that's the peak of national irresponsibility in those 30 years. Waiting for Pernik ministers to change their secretaries, then the PRs, to find their offices, the portraits to put on, because it's fashionable to have portraits of ministers, to know why the crisis is, and then to solve it?! It's masochism, it's a feast during the plague and we won't allow it! [[Loud applause from GERB and OP.]] You want to leave Bulgaria without parliament, so there is no need, if urgently necessary, who will change the budget, no one to touch the Water Act, because under the Law strategy the parliament does. You want the president to solve the water crisis, I respect him, at least that's not his fault. [[Noise and lines.]] You now want a vote of no confidence and by talking about how bad GERB is, but are you serious about it, or are you just talking about it in front of the electorate? Mrs. Ninova, whom I respect and always remember what she said, said summer: we will count the chickens in autumn. Why don't we count the chickens? Winter's up, Atanas' day is up! Well, let's count the chickens! Let's count in Burgas the city that Mrs. Radeva likes. Well, chickens are 10% your chickens. [[Noise, laughter from GERB.]] In Varna, tragedy, 14%! You created a political bulldozer and started digging into the political grave of GERB in Haskovo? Tetki, cousins, sister-in-law, sister-in-law, to put in the political grave Deyan Dobrev and GERB. And what happens when you count the chickens in Haskovo? The voice of God and the people fell into the grave you dug! Do you know how many chickens you have in Haskovo? Fourteen percent. Disgrace of Yoncheva policy! [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] Shall I tell you about the Red Fortress Vratsa? There were so many red chicks back then, there was nothing left. 72% of you were defeated, taxi drivers in Vratsa satisfied. For the first time in the new history of Bulgaria and taxi drivers to be satisfied. I'm not talking about Sofia and Plovdiv because you're a capo for 30 years! What should we count the chickens? I don't think you're that irresponsible. I think you're having a debate about gaining points for next year's election. In my opinion, today you lost the 2021 elections because you couldn't outdo yourself, give us a hand together to solve a disaster. And something really phenomenal happened. Indeed, for the first time in 30 years a phenomenon has been created in Bulgarian political life, tandem, duet, Siamese twins, two politicians, the Prime Minister of Bulgaria, who has ruled Bulgaria in all history, and a young mayor from BSP in Pernik, for which I congratulate you. Stop bragging about young Gerberas, there are young talented socialists. I was touched by that boy. It stood on top of Christmas and thanked the government for those over 130 million and said thank you for being on his birthday! He connected his fate, personal, with Pernik's fate, and so is done, and this is an example of crisis resolution of Siamese twins: Borisov and the mayor of Pernik. [[Applause from GERB.]] And that's why you're gonna lose the election because you don't have a elementary sense of analysis. Talk about the engine vote for the voters, but inside you make a plenum for the Yoncheva model. And why are you always not an alternative to GERB? Because you've never been responsible. GERB makes mistakes and you never appear as their alternative. Ivancho to ask on the street: Ivancho, who is the savior, Vancho? There's no lie, there's no deception.. GERB is the savior. There are no other saviors! [[Noise, lines, laughter from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]] And finally, let me ask you something. It's in your best interest. Never, never, never, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever mention a reboot of change because I'm very strong in this subject and it's going to be a very big debate, never mention a reboot of change! [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Do you know why, sir? Because we're not retarded and we're not short-lived! You reboot at the beginning of the transition and ruined the 1990s of Bulgaria. Who asked you to take down Stefan Savov? Why did you take it off? Because he is the grandson of Stefanaki Savov, who went through the communist camps, a nobleman and was not a thief, but he was pouring the bottle of oil on the street. "Parensov." [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] You have created in the parallel state concepts as a floating majority, a restructuring of the parliament, you have replaced the vote of your Bulgarian voters. As many times as you touched the power, you ruined Bulgaria. We won't let you! I used to say, "Choos to the ground." And I guessed it. Now I'm telling you, we're not gonna let you reboot a hole. You are not fit to rule Bulgaria! In 2021 Borisov will win the fifth term for the management of Bulgaria! [[Wurthy applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Markov. - What's the line? First line, Mr. Stoynev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! Dear Mr. Markov, after having received congratulations from your fellow partyers, they are not really partyers, because you are not a member of GERB after you explained the transition, let us return to the topic of today's vote of mistrust, and it is precisely the crisis in Pernik. The big question here, Mr. Markov, is why did it come to this? You came this far because you kept quiet and didn't tell people the truth! And that is the reason for our vote of no confidence. Because preventive measures could be taken because we were asking questions here, from this tribune, about the condition and you lied to the citizens! That's the difference between you and us. Because your main goal is to preserve power, to dig into power and to continue to rule. Of course we need urgent measures. Of course we need policies. However, the fault for this crisis is yours because the dam is the visible result of the management of GERB! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This is the sign of lack of politics, of the way a state is run when you think about your own post, about your own desk, about your own car, and you don't go down to people to tell them what's going on! That's it, Mr. Markov! Because the head of the VK said: I was banned from speaking from the political faces of GERB. That's what's scary! And we cannot continue to live in a similar state where power is above the interests of the people! That is why we want this vote, so we want this debate!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u23	Mr. Stoynev!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u24	Yes, we must learn lessons from the past. Here, however, the big question, Mr. Markov, is: why did it come to this? That's it, and you have to give an answer not only in this room, but also to society. Because for the first time, honourable Members, we have a vote of no confidence where...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u25	Time, Mr. Stoinev!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u26	...political debate coincides with public debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u27	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. I said I'd keep time. Thank you. You'll have a chance to make a statement. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Let's be tolerant and follow the rules! Second line? I won't. Mr. Markov, can you do a douche? No. Here you are, Mr. Karadayi, for a statement. Colleagues, I await your requests for speeches, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u28	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! A constitutionalist scaring us with clearly scheduled constitutional procedures is not good! [[Applause from DPS.]] For the reconstruction of 75 years ago or the last 30 years, Madam President, if we need to have a debate in the National Assembly, please set a meeting with an agenda where we can have this debate. We, from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, are ready for this debate, Mr. Markov. It seems, however, that today is about the last ten years of the country's rule. If I may quote Mr. Markov again: Today we are in a political disaster, the fruit of the long-standing government...................................................................................... to GERB............................................................................ [[Applause from DPS.]] The failure of GERB's government in the field of environment and water, and not only in the overall policy, is a fact. And this is the regular result of ten-year-old incompetence. Today GERB fiercely defends the thesis that in the field of environment and water such great successes have been achieved and only the opposition cannot see them and assess them, and perhaps how individual individuals have made the wrong decisions, but they have immediately reacted, and how much should everyone be grateful to GERB, Mr Markov, right? True to their instincts for self-preservation, GERB quickly made personal changes, demonstrated extraordinary public work for an urgent solution to the problem to try to suppress the tension and thus intend to continue. Not only will the problems not be solved, they are very and increasingly difficult, in all sectors, but on the contrary the problems will deepen. However you look at it, ladies and gentlemen of GERB, this is the situation. Things are getting worse and not getting better. The state is collapsing. We have repeatedly stated it and stated the reasons. There is evidence of severe incompetence, of unsystemic thinking and political shortsightedness. The inability of the government to learn from their mistakes is a testimony of ignorance, where no matter how many times a mistake is repeated, it does not lead to a qualitative change in the management model. We at the DPS have stated our firm support for the submitted vote of mistrust not only because we are opposition, but because we are convinced of the damage that the current ruling majority of democracy and statehood is causing the life and health of all Bulgarian citizens and creates serious risks for the future. After today's debates, the arithmetic result of the vote is not important, but the political and management lessons are important. The political effect of the complex action of this democratic instrument is important. The arguments we have are serious enough for everyone for whom the interests of the state and of the people are above the interests of the government, for which power is self-target. There is nothing more natural than to support each person's right to life in a clean, healthy environment. The environment has a close relationship with human health and well-being, clean environment, clean water and clean air provide healthy living conditions and increasingly become conditions without which humankind cannot continue with its existence. Taking into account the inextricable link between the state of the environment and the quality of life, the European Union is working to bring together the environmental and health sectors and, in particular, the environmental health objectives in line with the principle that man has the fundamental right to freedom, equality and adequate living conditions in the environment with a quality that allows life with a sense of dignity and well-being. The Green Pact of the European Union is a response to the serious challenges facing the entire climate and environmental society. This is a new growth strategy that aims to make the European Union a fair and prosperous society. We at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are adequate to the requirements of time and with our programme and priorities, which we have been repeating for two years, will be active in bringing the Green Pact of the European Union into effect, together with all responsible political parties, along with the free and active citizens. Member of the Commission. - Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today's debates are about the results of ten-year management disability and the proposed palliative measures by the government and the ruling majority are not a solution. It is necessary to formulate clear priorities on the basis of the Programme of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and for the accelerated economic development of the country. The Green Pact of the European Union is a huge opportunity for people, businesses and the state. Let us wish for common agreement and common success in achieving this great goal. There's no time! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the DPS and part of the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Bonev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u30	Dear Madam President, dear Ministers! Dear MPs, we have heard strong speeches, strong political messages. I'm a MP from Pernik, from the Fourteenth Multi-Multimate Election District. I'm one of those 100 grand that's 20 kilometers from Pernik, and they're in water mode. But how did it come to this, the biggest question I've ever asked myself? On September 20th, precisely from this tribune, the highest tribune in the country, me and Stanislav Vladimirov, the acting mayor of the town of Pernik, asked Minister Avramova about the state of the dam "Studena" about the water supply of the town of Pernik. Because it was also at that moment that September 2019 Pernik was hidden, and perhaps at that time, a manifest regime. We have received leaky answers, twisting, twisting, but not telling the truth about the condition in the town of Pernik. Answers that were deliberately concealed because of the local elections. Dear MPs, Pernik is only 20 km from Sofia. Pernik is a 100-thousand-dollar city that is currently in distress. Yes, it is necessary to do for the city, it is necessary to prevent further humanitarian, social, financial crisis. Because 100,000 Perniks want to know who's responsible and who's to blame for our city being in this state. The crisis was also known in April 2018. Then are the first indications that the levels in the dam are decreasing. The mayor of Pernik, Dr. Vyara Tzerovska, knew about the problems, knew about the district governor Irena Sokolova, who is actually Chairman of the Water Association and should monitor the state of the water sector. Cynism is seven days before the announcement of the water regime in Pernik to hold an extraordinary meeting of the Water Association, in which to increase the budget without a word about what is to come. And the sadly famous of all throughout the country Vanyo the Drya, a man appointed by the Regional Ministry, a man who led Pernik to an unprecedented disaster. And that's just a small part of it. Everything was covered up because of the local elections that were lost, the local elections that showed the management weakness in the last four years of the town of Pernik and the last ten. That's why all the Perniks want to know exactly and clearly who is responsible, and why did it come to this? Thank you. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u31	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Shishkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! Over the past few weeks, we have increasingly witnessed distorted, manipulated, overexposed, or otherwise false information. [[Laughter and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We often witness lying. Unfortunately, this fairy information stream not only gets a wide runway from BSP colleagues... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u33	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u34	...but they are also authors of some of this false information, unfortunately. Of course, we cannot remain idle in this process and we will give our arguments in this direction. The truth is that within the plenary time at our disposal, we will not be able to answer all the untruths, but we will do our best to respond to much of them. I'm starting, perhaps, with the worst lie that's been reproduced in the last few weeks by the opposition. Over 500 thousand Bulgarians or half a million to make it sound more impressive are in water mode. It's a total lie! I can even quote the exact text in your motives: Today in Bulgaria according to official data of water regime are, notice, 315 thousand people, but they are not 315, they are 500 thousand. How do these things work? I'd love someone to explain. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Colleagues, the truth is that the real data exported by the water operators on 30 December 2019 is that the people who live in the water supply areas are 116 thousand 951 less than 117 thousand people. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The next false statement: the loss of water from 60% 10 years ago rose to 61%, we saw this in the pictures, at the time, despite the investments made, nothing like that. According to the NSI, over the 10-year period they decreased by more than 4%, colleagues. From 60.5% in 2008 are currently 56,4%, in fact in 2018. Moreover, where investments are made, where there is a water cycle, losses decline dramatically. And I'm setting an example right now with several municipalities. For example, the municipality of Gabrovo of 73% has been reduced to 45%, the municipality of Pomorie from 40% to 15% and, of course, I cannot miss my native municipality of Rakovski, where we managed to reduce losses more than twice from 47 to 20%. Colleagues, several times you mention that GERB manages 10 years. No, colleagues, GERB has managed since 2009 with interruption. The EU funds operate from 2007. From 2007 to 2019 have been stopped twice during the management of BSP. That's four years or one third of the period, one third! Make an account of these 4%, if EU funds were implemented, there wouldn't be 4 more. Dear colleagues from BSP, it is your trademark to instill fear in people and to strain tensions. An eloquent example of this is your next thesis: a crisis like the Pernishka follows in Targovishte, Sliven or Botevgrad. You throw false claims into the air and you rely on people to believe you blindly, but those times are long gone. That was 30 years ago, don't underestimate the Bulgarians! False news always comes back as a boomerang and comes full effect on their authors. Yes, there are dams with a volume of about and below 50%, but they are monitored, their condition is constantly analyzed. Measures shall apply to the use of alternative water sources. After the water apocalypse, you've been trying to plant fear in other sectors as well. You qualify as a failure the policy of air cleanliness and give for example the criminal procedure against Bulgaria for exceeding the values of fine dust particles from 2017. Colleagues, the observed period is from 2007 to 2014. In this period you have managed twice. When the BSP was in power in 2008, in all 28 municipalities we observed an excess of norms. Ten years later, in 2018, nine of the municipalities are already below the indicators. In terms of waste. It is extremely useful to rely on the data from the institutions correctly, and they did not understand to rush into panic and hysteria in society. I will immediately give an example that is indicative and embodys absolutely all of your these and statements. The notorious 2.9 tons of hospital waste, which was allegedly imported into the country, proved to be what the washing preparations really are. Not only have they not been imported, they are transiting through our country, colleagues. My fellow Members, my respects, but this is no way to make a policy. Lies are never appreciated, honesty is appreciated. I very much hope that you will be able to find the right washing preparations to wash away the unpleasant feelings and worries you have caused people through all your false claims. You want to rule, but you don't give an alternative. Management requires real action and proposals. Moreover, even the few things you have suggested, we are already doing them. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Shishkov. First line, come in, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! Mr. Shishkov, the false news that you say there are in the motives are taken by the National Statistical Institute, by the analysis of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission on the state of the water sector. I mean, what's going on? False news is written by the institutions, we only refer to them. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u38	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Shishkov, don't read the motives we've brought in like the devil's gospel. Look at the facts, Mr. Shishkov. I come from an area for which I have called for years for ministers to answer on the same subject, namely the problem of water. It is because of what has been done in recent years that Shumen is on the verge of a water crisis. The water company is bankrupt. It turns out that due to incompetence, sloppy and thieving management, the company owes more than 7 million. lv. The water company cannot maintain its system. Last summer, the director of the VK Shumen traveled in Pliska town to collect money from the residents of Pliska to repair their plumbing and flush them, Mr. Shishkov. After several water cycles that are super successful in your words, there is an 80% loss of water from the water supply. It's all a result of a carefree government. People are suffering. [[Relations from the National Representative Mladen Shishkov.]] It's not just Shumen, it's Pernik we're talking about. This is Lovech, this is Pleven, Botevgrad and a bunch of other cities. Should I tell you about your successful water cycles? [[Heckling]] Speaking of stopping EU funds in 2014 were stopped because of errors, violations of financial discipline committed in the period 2010 - 2012, in the management of your government. That's why they were stopped, you know. The bombs are about to explode. That is why today is this debate to put an end to this outrage. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Is there gonna be a third line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Genov, in fact we are also quoting data from the official institution. For a reason, I said we should be able to read them properly. Our data behind them is an author, a signature and a stamp. I can give them to you. Dear Mr. Ivanov, yes, there are problems in the water sector. It's not a secret, it's not something we don't admit, it's not something we don't work on. On the contrary, in the last few years, there has been an accelerated work on improving the conditions in the water sector. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u41	Please listen to the backdrop, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u42	What I said at the beginning also applies to Shumen, Mr. Ivanov. You are very good at giving information about the losses in Shumen, but somehow conveniently you miss to say that the water supply is not renovated. That's why these losses are, the water cycle is quite different. Thanks to European solidarity and thanks to the fact that the EU funds were launched again in 2014, despite the remarks you have made, we continue to work speedily in this direction. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u43	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u44	Colleagues, I don't know if any of you have read your entire document on the no-confidence vote. It's full of contradictions, apparently written by various experts. You ask questions, you answer them, you contradict them. For me, this document, which you have prepared, can serve wonderfully for a potential vote of no confidence against your government. I know that you, through this vote of distrust, are trying to get out of the water dry. There's no way that's gonna happen, guys. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] There's no way that's gonna happen because...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u45	Quiet down, everyone!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u46	... You're no less in trouble. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u47	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u48	Instead of seeking a joint solution, instead of giving a hand to emerge together from this crisis, through fear and suggestion, you are trying to derive political dividends. That's not gonna happen, guys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u49	Thank you, dear Mr. Shishkov. We are continuing the debate. Colleagues, I await your requests for speeches. Mr. Shopov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u50	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! Come on, let's not lie to each other, let's not fool ourselves, let's not roll each other, let's not roll the Bulgarians! It was invented to have a vote of no confidence for many reasons. They are an internal party for BSP. The goal is also the overthrow of the government - perhaps the last attempt to have early parliamentary elections. That's the point! Whenever the opposition thinks of a no-confidence vote, it thinks, first, whether there is a no-confidence vote and then: On the occasion of, of course, the existing problems, the water crisis for Pernik, the junk, in relation to which we at Ataka have submitted a proposal for a moratorium on imports from abroad, and on many other environmental problems. The overthrow of the government will actually postpone the resolution of many of these problems - elections, a new government - a time during which nothing will be done for months. When there is such a situation, in the third year of this governance, it was four years ago... there were extraordinary elections then, questions are asked between those who would be future partners in a single management. Then we from Ataka....we asked GERB and the other possible partners some questions....just logically to answer questions like: will Russian gas go through Bulgaria on pipes; will Belene be built....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... A large, radical, significant increase in pensions, wages, incomes at all....................................... we asked this question, and from GERB answered us, including from BSP then. The question of refugees, so-called by you, we in Ataka, told them the aliens: will they be stopped at the Bulgarian border? And most importantly, colleagues, for us from Ataka was whether it would be stopped and whether the anti-Bulgarian, pro-Turkish, nationalist party DPS will participate in power?!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u51	Mr. Shopov, I'm making a note!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u52	Madam President, when I speak in this regard, you are always making a remark to me. Don't be afraid, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u53	I'm not scared, I just want her to have a good tone in the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u54	This is our political creed in Ataka, a qualification that we have, and we have the right to articulate it from the parliamentary tribune. And now we're in this particular situation, and we all know it. And I repeat: it is not the question of Pernik in BSP, about junk, about ecology, whether this government is overthrown and we go to early elections, or not to bring down this government and continue to spend its term. In particular, with regard to us, from the "Attack" not the independent six MPs, just as abstract as it is under the rules, but we, the MPs from the "Attack" who are dependent on the voters of the "Attack," from our supporters and members, from our national leadership of the "Attack." What's going on these days? Us, the six of us from the attack, you from the BSP were pulling us by the hand: Climb up to the West Hall or the East to talk to you about whether you will support the vote......................................... you are satisfied when we speak against the government of GERB. For such talks about our important six votes there was order. Mrs. Nino, make a request. We have a headquarters to our national leadership, to the six of us, but together, as representatives of the Ataka, invite us. You didn't! You wanted to talk to each and every one of us, maybe someone would give in. Such was the policy of our colleagues from GERB. And you reasoned, "Those from Ataka" have so dialed them. The humiliation we were subjected to by GERB because GERB violated the balance in the Bulgarian National Assembly and you did not protect us when they forced Siderov to leave the National Assembly, you did not protect us when this happened without him being able to say his last word in this Chamber when the proportions in the committees were violated, none of you are opposition, you should work for parliamentaryism, nothing like that! You're laughing and you're happy, and now you've come to ask for our six votes. We asked you some questions on Sunday. You know the questions you're trying to cleverly ask us to ask GERB these questions. We asked GERB, as I told you, the questions four years ago. We are now asking them to you, so I will read them to you, as formulated by our national leadership. They are, first, Mrs. Ninova, and you from BSP, answer my question: does BSP have a definite intention to make the minimum pension by coming to power, 500 BGN and the minimum salary of 1500 BGN.? Second question, Mrs. Nino: Does BSP have a definite intention to end the concessions for the extraction of gold and to take them into Bulgarian hands? Does the BSP have a definite intention to shut down foreign military bases in our country? Four, does the BSP have a definite intention to remove sanctions against Russia? Five, does the BSP have a strong intention to recognise by a parliamentary decision the genocide of the Bulgarian people during the Turkish slavery, which it wants and for which it has been fighting since 2005? There are, of course, many other questions that we could ask you to answer categorically. Here, we give you the opportunity to answer these five questions, and we can determine ourselves, but not by stalling, not by hanging out. Not to happen on these topics and issues what was happening when you were ruling, when only four years ago Prime Minister was Oresharski, when in the Forty-second National Assembly we were submitting proposals, Siderov spoke from the stand, you laughed and did the opposite. Now answer, but no spins, no values, no conditionalities on any of the questions:........................................................................................ We will determine our attitude the day after tomorrow, in the vote on Tuesday, with regard to this vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u55	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Replices, coworkers? First line, Mr. Burgeev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u56	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Shopov, as I was in the contact group on the negotiations on the no-confidence vote, the facts, we also showed to the Bulgarian citizens through the media, say the following: each of you, including the former MPs from the Political Party "Ataka" who were part of the small coalition partner, were invited each individually, respectfully and in due order. Apart from talking on the sidelines, including I have spoken to you, we have commented just before our meeting will you come up, I have asked you personally how you will react, will you respect our invitation and so on. What I heard in your statement just now is that you went through 12 different topics, of which none was essentially of today's no-confidence vote. If you have any other behind-the-scenes arrangements with the government, don't look for reasons to clear up the subject and cover up your political direction, it will just become clear today with your vote. There's a watershed here. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u57	Thank you, dear Mr. Burgeev. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u58	Madam President, extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u59	Time extension, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u60	Mr. Burgeev, my respects to you and to many young BSP colleagues, whom I highly appreciate. Yeah, it was. You invited me. You were just the guy who was holding my hand in the hall, wanting to take me to the West Room, and you obviously weren't listening. I'm talking to you about how you couldn't separatically talk to each of us separately, one way or another. You've done the same with some of your colleagues. I told you that you should talk to us as a slenderly organized authentic political force, which has its own leadership, which is not influenced, unlike many other politicians, by external and other forces. And you didn't listen to me a minute ago either, and that's what I was telling you, and that's what I was telling you. The question of ecology is only the formal occasion, and the aim is another one of the issues of this government, for which we are currently having this debate, covered under this so important topic, on which Ataka is also having its views, opinions. I hope that soon our proposal for a moratorium on imports of junk, where we have also given a legal definition and where we will make our contribution to the government, and at all. When I listed these five points to you, they're also related to this. The last point, if you think, Mr. Burgeev, will see that it is extremely important because it will determine your partners as well. We're not asking you directly, Mrs. Ninova, who you're running with, that's a very big question. It's an existential question in a political claim... [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yeah, yeah, that's for the vote, that's for the garbage vote, for the water in Pernik, for the overthrow of this government and for the coming of a new government, and our fifth point is related to that. Because I don't know how you would answer me, Mrs. Nino, you will agree with the only possible partner in the present moment, DPS, which is defending the Turkish national interest in Bulgaria [[Replications from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms]] And who...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u61	Mr. Shopov, I'm making a note of your art. 56. Please reflect on the protocol.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u62	...will never agree, Mrs. Ninova. We have adopted a decision recognising other genocides, foreign genocides, yes, but the Bulgarian five and a half centuries-old genocide has not yet been recognised. This is an existential question for the Bulgarian people, for the Bulgarian nation. This question is fundamental, it is civilized, it is more than geostrategic for Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u63	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. We are continuing the debate. Any other speeches, colleagues?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u64	Can I have a procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u65	Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u66	Thank you, Madam President. At the beginning of these debates, you said that you would not be tolerant of non-compliance with procedures, but it is constantly happening here today from this tribune. Everyone speaks on whatever subject they want, but not on the subject of no confidence vote. Please follow the Rules, observe the item on the agenda and the debates on the topic: A vote of mistrust on the water crisis and on environmental pollution in the Republic of Bulgaria. That is the subject, honourable Members of the House. Madam President, I ask you to interrupt those Members who are not on today's subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u67	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. I think Mr. Shopov is talking about the arguments with which he would support your no-confidence vote, which is why I let him develop his thesis. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u68	Please extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u69	The time has been extended.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u70	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! Now we're getting to the point. The DPS will support the no-confidence vote. Because, first of all, we have our serious arguments for poor environmental governance in recent years; secondly, because the vote will show what the ruling majority is currently and who is responsible for governance; thirdly, because we are opposition. But opposition, as I have already said, with my serious arguments and a solution for better governance. There is no strategic framework for long-term policy and gaps in the harmonisation of national environmental legislation with the European Economic Area. "This is the main conclusion in the Court of Auditors' report from an audit carried out at the Ministry of Environment and Water at the end of last year. Lack of a strategic framework for long-term policy in practice means that in the field of environment and water there is no vision for long-term objectives and no specific measures are identified to achieve them. What kind of policy and what kind of governance can we even talk about then? The Court of Auditors clearly points out in its conclusions: the lack of policy, the lack of strategic long-term vision. It turns out that everything in the field of environment and water is going by momentum, by loneliness. That is why there are serious problems, first of all, in the area of water management. The most serious problem, of course, is the water crisis in Pernik, but unfortunately, there are other problems in the area of water management in Bulgaria. There are also serious problems related to the huge losses of water in the country's water supply network because the pipes on it have not been replaced for decades and the water losses, as we all know, are officially over 60%. But what did the water crisis in Pernik show? First, there is no good control at both local level and central level of drinking water sources and the country's water supply system. At local level, their commitments under the law have obviously not fulfilled the Water Association, the mayor, the district governor, the municipal council. There is no way at local level they did not know about these problems, but either they underestimated them or they did not adequately prepare with serious measures to overcome this crisis. At the central level, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works has not dealt with the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works as the principal of the state water supply company Pernik, whose manager is appointed by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. From the monthly schedules that are public and are on the website of the Ministry of Environment and Water, for the use of water from complex and significant dams, it is apparent that only in November 2019 after the crisis has spread, the Ministry of Environment and Water has stopped the industrial supply to the Ministry of Environment and Water. The problem in Pernik also showed that there is no coordination between competent institutions that have a liability in terms of water management and water supply networks. As a matter of fact, such coordination was subsequently achieved when the Prime Minister, the deputy prime minister and other ministers responsible for water management were involved. It has been seen that at this stage such coordination leads to some kind of partial solution. We hope to find a real alternative. In this regard, I would like to add and say that this has not always been the case. I would like to give an example, Madam President. This is how I, from my work as Minister of Environment and Water, have submitted to the Council of Ministers reports in 2007, to all members of the Council of Ministers to get acquainted with the state of water resources in Bulgaria and to take adequate policies in order not to allow such situations. Not that there were such situations then, thank God, there was no, but when there are such situations, there really is a very adequate and effective management of water resources. In order to improve water management, because when we were in government, there were floods during this period, an operational unit was created that worked on a 24-hour regime, and it collected information from all competent entities and institutions, processed this information and was submitted back to the district managers, mayors, operators of the respective dams so that there was an adequate management. Unfortunately, however, it is not only in Pernik that the situation is critical. Water mode there is today I understand, there are people from Lovech, Pleven, Troyan, in Omurtag, in Dobrich the situation is very critical. There are also serious problems in other areas of environmental policies, namely waste management. It has been seen that there is indeed a very serious situation in the country with the import of waste, knowing the legal framework. Unfortunately, it is clear that it is largely necessary to see exactly how it is implemented and implemented, but the main responsibility, as we all know, is on the part of the Minister of Environment and Water or a person authorised by him to respond to notifications and then to imports. However, we need to make it clear here that there must be extremely serious control by the customs authorities and authorities by the Border Police, by the Ministry of Interior during transport within the country and the agencies responsible for transport. Here it is evident that it is also necessary. At the moment, you can see that coordination is not good, control is not good. All of this must be improved in order for our country not to become Europe's backyard in terms of waste disposal, in no case should this be allowed. I appeal, we also appeal to the Bulgarian Industrial Association, since it is important for raw materials to come into the country for recovery and recycling, we need to know the framework to be clear, to be presented to all of us in Bulgaria, to know exactly what it is about. There are very serious problems with air pollution. The municipalities are also responsible, but the Ministry of Environment and Water also has its serious competences. There are serious problems in the field of nature conservation. We have a delay with the signing of 211 protected zones of 341 generally approved. The Minister of Environment and Water has not signed these orders and we are in penal proceedings. Urgent measures must be taken so that the European Commission does not move into the next judicial phase. To conclude, I would reiterate the Court of Auditors' findings on the lack of a strategic framework and vision for environmental and water management policies. In view of all the arguments we have presented, we will support the vote of mistrust by the DPS parliamentary group. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u71	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? I take it there are no speeches? Mr. Kostadinov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u72	Dear Madam President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! It can all end very quickly and very easily. All the efforts you have talked about, colleagues from GERB, and all the investments we can show them with your favorite words "visible results." The results are visible, unfortunately, not just for Pernik. The 2012 National Water Management Strategy tells the Danube and Western region that in all three hypotheses, including a little precipitation, no water problem is expected. Imagine what a management effort must be made for these seven or eight years to be such a situation in Pernik and the presence of water stress fact for Pleven, Lovech, Shumen, Razgrad. The easiest way to say it is, only if we here make no distinction between the fact that natural disasters are the product of the elements, and the crisis situations are the product of other three factors of incompetence, human carelessness, or as the prosecutor recently likes to say, the mindless idleness, and corruption pressure and susceptibility, we are simply not here. This vote is about this: the so-called water reform, you implemented two viruses. The first virus is the political virus. We've told it in motive. You have divided into ours and yours, those who can and cannot, those who receive money, and those who do not receive money, those who are exemplary, and the others who have cut. The second virus was economic. The global battle for water is a fact, but in the Bulgarian version the global battle is for control of the projects and who to hold hands on the large water funding. Since I spoke of the National Water Strategy, we would all be delighted if Pernik's famous Water Cycle was completed as early as possible for 100 million. BGN, but why did you give 100 million. lv. for 17 thousand equivalent residents in a city 20 km from Sofia? What's the price? Objective 1 - Guaranteed water provision for the population and business in climate change conditions leading to drought, as a result by 2020 there will be no Bulgarian city to experience waterlessness. Who implements this strategy? Put on the table the mid-term evaluation of the Strategy. She's long gone by the time she shows up. The political-expert team you wore in expert terms your political arguments, where is it? You are now paying a heavy political price. Where's the political-expert team that made these phrases? And to leave time to colleagues, I take the commitment to prepare for Mrs. Karayancheva a folder because a few years ago Mr. Borisov had a metaphor really good: I would like to tell you that in 2012, when our colleague, Toma Bikov, irony of fate, wrote the article "Carricture of a dictator, you know what it is about, the Director-General of the Directorate-General of the Regional Development and the Director of the Directorate-General of the Directorate-General, Dir Kaner, then a letter of correspondence "Valter Defa," here is a letter of 27.11.2013, saying that for unlawful mixing of a selection criterion with evaluation indicators, illegal reduction of the deadline for receipt of tenders, due to incomplete prior announcement, restrictive requirements for membership in the Central Register, uneven treatment of participants during the selection and extension of tenders for the period, colleagues, 2010 So I'll prepare, Mrs. Karayancheva... I wouldn't advise anyone to use that metaphor. Then it worked out well for Mr. Borisov, but if you insist on being correct towards the Perniks and all Bulgarians, this is not the way. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u73	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u74	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! Mr. Kostadinov, I see that colleagues from GERB are not speaking, silent. They seem to agree with those arguments that you said. To ask you a little more detail to explain things with the Strategy and why they drowned reform and left people dry, without water, in many places.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u75	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. Mr. Kostadinov, come in for a little more detail...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u76	The line is correct. There's not much time. Thank you, Madam President. Dear ministers and colleagues! Yes, the European Commission has asked us to introduce water reform. She wanted a reform of the water sector. The architects of water reform, as I call them, from your party presented a Strategy for Development of the Water Sector. This disintegration of the single management of water, the lack of a single approach was with one sole aim to prepare the conditions for concessions. They were overcrowded territories. Has anyone ever heard of water running down administrative boundaries? Has anyone ever heard that by depriving seven years of all municipalities between 2 and 10,000 equivalents of residents, we would argue that they have no problems with water supply, with purification? That's ridiculous! This is it, Mr. Genov, the strategy that has been proposed to us and which replaced the National Strategy for Water Sector Management and Development. So it is easy to criticize, sometimes it is easy for the opposition to criticize. Is there an option, is there a development, is there an exit? We're on the brink of a precipice where, if there was water, unfortunately there wouldn't be, it would be easier for us to fall into it. Single water management, a single integrated approach and a single body, a radical reform of the water sector, not an imitation of reforms, not a crisis PR, but real reforms! The waterworks must be responsible for the drinking significant, large, complex water supply dams and leading highway pipes to the boundaries of the municipalities and this must be the new water supply, the new reform and there must be the single price. From now on, our vision is that public municipal property should be everything in terms of infrastructure and which mayor how he manages his resources, such will be the assessment of the citizens for him. Thank you for your attention. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u77	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Ebatine.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u78	Madam President, honourable Members! The Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support this vote of mistrust because we realize that we are living in a global world where environmental policy must be an essential element in a governance and we believe that this governance is not adequate in terms of this policy. We believe that we will support this vote because we want Bulgaria to have clean water, clean and fertile land and Bulgaria not to become a site where waste from other countries is accepted. We want there to be a proper policy regarding the protection of water resources. We want fresh air. We also want there to be a pure political environment where interhuman relations are not poisoned. And that is why we will support this vote. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms has always been a responsible political force and will continue to be a responsible political force! Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u79	Thank you, Mr. Ebatine. - What's the line? I can't see. Mrs. Vasileva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u80	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen ministers and MPs! Nature care is a concern for people, and the clean and healthy environment is a prerequisite for better living conditions, so our attitude towards today's debate is serious. We have carefully come to know the reasons for the vote of mistrust tabled by the BSP. Unfortunately, we do not see the same serious attitude on the part of colleagues in today's debate. Colleagues, you didn't surprise us because what you are demonstrating is not a constructive and constructive approach, but self-sustaining criticism and aspiration to create panic, hysteria, tension and strengthening people's fears, and environmental policies require expertise, care and strategic approach. In the environment, harm is done quickly, but recovery takes many years, so it must be dealt with with with a very high degree of responsibility. We have been working on a legislative framework since 2009, which is fully harmonised with the European framework. We're under strict control because environmental abuse is an attack on people. Where there are weaknesses and gaps, everyone has their own responsibility. In water management, we follow the principles laid down in the Law as early as 2009. These are the European principles on which the Strategy is founded. We take into account the strategic importance of water resources and bet on the leading role of the state. We have restrictive legislation in the waste sector, which is based on the hierarchy in their management. To improve air quality only in the last two years we have introduced a clear distinction between the responsibilities of the institutions, requirements for solid fuels for domestic heating and mandatory video surveillance for operators of landfills and combustion plants. We also proposed changes to the Criminal Code for Incriminating Waste Burning. What is the behavior of BSP? You claim to have raised the subject many times, but you do not have a single legislative proposal. On the contrary, you support ours, which means you approve of our policy. You're applying for management, but you don't really have anything to offer. Your alternative is "Vision for Bulgaria" where the environment is totally neglected. There are only a few paragraphs on the subject, the proposals are focused mainly on business and not on people. You're criticizing, but you're not making any decisions. There are more than 20 pages of criticism in the reasons for the vote for the sector. You can't ignore what you've done so far. We can also compare investments in the sector and their results. For decades there was no investment in the water sector. In just a few years, we built over 2,500 km of water supply network and waste water treatment plants, 51 more than they were built during all mature socialism. You remember what dirt was pouring into the sea. It's not like that anymore! We continue with the implementation of contracts in the water sector signed with 12 consolidated water service operators, contracts for preparation and pre-investment studies in six more areas have been concluded. Yes, the needs in the water sector are much more than possible, but even when using the available resource, we have never shared the municipalities of ours. During the first period contracts were signed and executed by many mayors of GERB, some of them are our colleagues today, such as mayors in the municipalities of Lovech, Shumen, Sliven, Vidin, who were then managed by BSP. In the case of waste, what did we find in 2009 after your management? Unclosed depots, more than 120 ulcers across the country, lack of regional systems and imminent criminal procedure. What's the situation now? All old and non-compliant depots are closed, their reclamation is underway, for which funding is provided. There are already 52 regional waste management systems throughout the country. In Sofia works the largest plant in the Balkans, even for a long time tried to sabotage. For air quality, you did not foresee any funds during the first period, and the criminal procedure against Bulgaria covers the period until 2014, just when you managed. Then you didn't take any measures. What did we do? In the Operational Programme, we provided funds to support municipalities, and last year the budget was increased significantly. These are means of changing the fuel base of households in cities with impaired air quality and environmental urban transport. Yes, we know that much more has to be done, but the results so far show that against the 28 municipalities, when in 2014 there was an air quality breach, nine of them are already in line. Dear colleagues, the subject of environment and water is significant. It excites people and today's debate is proof of how priority it is. It is time to have a common understanding that these policies should not be underestimated but deserve great attention. In order to be successful, however, it is necessary to place them high above the close party interests, commitment of everyone and interaction between the institutions - not only between the state but also good coordination with the local authorities - something that we see in the work with the mayor of Pernik municipality. Therefore, I believe that in the field of environment, the public interest should be the leading one. Bulgarian citizens expect the right solutions and actions from us. But unfortunately, in the face of the BSP at this time, we do not see constructive opposition. We see a party that is devoid of visionaryism, although pompously she called her program "Vision for Bulgaria." Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u81	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vasileva. Replices, coworkers? Here you are, Mr. Bojankov, for a line. [[Noise and lines.]] Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u82	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Vasileva, you have not actually read the reasons for the vote well, because for each sector a concrete solution has been proposed. The waste sector is a waste of deposit systems, incentives for citizens, control, information systems, specific solutions, although this is not the focus of a vote of mistrust, but the work of an opposition is not to offer everything in one vote. In those years, we've proposed it, asked questions and never had a reaction. Our no-confidence vote is the last instrument, the last measure you have reached. In your speech, Mrs. Vassileva, you also missed an important point that perhaps the Prime Minister will be angry with you. If this government failed to turn Bulgaria into an important energy and strategic hub in other sectors, then at least you managed to turn Bulgaria into an Italian garbage hub. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u83	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojankov. Second line? Mr. Genov, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u84	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! Dear Mrs. Vasileva, somehow from your speech everything in the country looks like honey and butter, we have one air, saturated almost with ozone, favorable. Let me remind you that you from this tribune told us when you persuaded us to pass a law that 15,000 people died prematurely from this in the state. You neglected to say that axis 1 of the Operational Programme "Environment" was implemented 22%. How many contracts have they concluded, how they have concluded, why they have concluded, this is another matter, but the implementation of the Programme is so much. Even Mr. Shishkov won't try to say it's false news because it's a serious source that I quote. You neglected to say anything else: that the operation of the Italian carabinieri did more work for the Bulgarian citizens in terms of environmental policy than all the eco-inspectors and officials in the Ministry who succeeded, closing their eyes not in one or two places, to turn Bulgaria with regulated and unregulated landfills, as the colleague said, not in a gas hub, but in a garbage hub. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u85	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. Third line? I can't see. Here you go, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u86	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Thank you for the comments of colleagues, especially Mr. Bozhankov, who we know is an outstanding expert in the sector of Waste and has a strong interest in it. [[Radio and applause by GERB.]] But I would be happy to make proposals in due order if you have legislative proposals. You know we're always ready to discuss the prepositions and views you might present. And as for the subject that Mr. Genov has addressed, related to the control that is being carried out, and the intensive checks that are currently taking place, we are absolutely firm where there are unlawful acts, they must be punished with all the strictness of the law, because this is related to the lives and health of people. In this sense, the coordination of all institutions, including the interaction with other institutions from Member States of the European Union, should be in the direction of dealing with problems where there are, identifying and taking action to punish infringements and offenders. Mr. Genov commented on the Operational Programme. This gives me the opportunity to touch on a statement that was made earlier in the exhibition. Colleagues, operational programs are still complex matter and we know very well that for you they are a great pain. It's trauma, yes, because the fact is, you're being stopped, we're being let go. [[Private applause from GERB.]] Madam President, I have brought two letters. One is from November 27, 2013. A letter from the European Commission... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u87	It's a doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u88	It's a doppelganger. ...which is addressed to the Oresharski government six months after entering the government and stopping the program. And another letter of 12 November 2014, with which payments under the Programme were unscathed one week after the Borisov 2 government took over. Colleagues, when programs are stopped, do not stop because of the errors of beneficiaries. Programs are stopped because of inadequate management. More than once, the Bulgarian Socialist Party has proven that it exhibits...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u89	The weather, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u90	...inadequacy in the management of operational programs. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u91	Thank you. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you are, Mr. Bojankov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u92	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! The waste sector is undoubtedly one of the important components of the environment, in the first place because of its attitude towards citizens' health, but also because of the security of raw materials industries. At the same time, requirements are constantly increasing in Europe. The crises, the incidents we observe in Bulgaria are not one-off acts. They are a logical result of a poorly managed sector, because in Bulgaria this sector is based mainly on a lie. If we look at the data, in 2017, Bulgaria was obliged to recycle 35% of its old tires, it recycled 65% of it over twice its targets. At the same time, tires are massively burned and you introduce criminal responsibility. Something's wrong! With regard to recycling of plastic packaging. Bulgaria is obliged to recycle 22% of their total weight, but Bulgaria recycles 66% Well, this is the place for applause, because we're used to being at the bottom of the charts, but we're at the top of the list right now. I guess there's no applause, because everyone in this room is aware that this isn't true. In a system where there is almost complete bacchanal, it is normal to have frauds. This is the door through which unregulated imports enter, unregulated burns. Control just doesn't have it. In reality the data are the following: in our country is recycled between 10 and 15%, and it is recycled from recyclable waste. The efforts of power are directed mainly against the bright and legal business, which has been strictly and continuously examined. At the same time, each of you and a non-expert can do a simple experiment. Google adverts for buying hazardous waste: I buy used oils, I buy old catalysts, I buy DPF filters, I buy thousands of ads. Thousands of ads! That is, the gray sector is digitized, organized, but power is aimed at the light business. This results in the following results. From 2012 to 2016 Bulgaria's waste management costs as a percentage of gross domestic product are 0.62, which is the highest cost for the entire European Union. Is that a match for the results? I think it's rhetorical. In almost all settlements there are unregulated landfills. The power mainly transfers the problems from the central government to the judiciary and to the local.. each problem is solved by the Penal Code and by transferring responsibilities to the prosecution. This indicates the inability of management. The official data I'm going to quote to you that there is no order in this system is frightening. Two weeks ago, we asked a parliamentary question: what is the volume of waste transactions between individuals in Bulgaria from 2012 until now? And the result was very strange in 2012. 225 million is the volume of these deals, three years later it fell to 30 million. A 450% drop in literally no time, and no ministry has turned on the light that anything in this sector is going on. Of course, it's clear to experts. It's a long subject, but the conclusion is clear, there is no control. No one has any idea what is going on with the Bulgarian trash, so the uncontrolled burning and import of waste without control of the morphology of waste is only a logical result of all this, is not its reason. With regard to air quality, we have repeatedly warned colleagues that the increase in taxes without technical, current and subsequent controls will not result. A year later, we're on the same level. The Netherlands is ordering an audit of its recycling systems because there are no recycling cars in the country. And do you know what the auditors find a year later? All the old cars are in Bulgaria, according to the auditors, a country with no environmental and technical control, where cars are moving, dangerous to human health and the environment. This is the conclusion of this report. And the conclusion for us based on the data and the facts set out in our motives is that the sector is targeted and systematically poorly managed, which is already a motive for asking for a vote of no confidence. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u93	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojankov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Yachev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u94	Madam President, honourable Members! Despite the nearly 40 pages of the BSP parliamentary group's motivations, requesting a vote of no confidence of the government, it is more than clear that behind them all is the main intention to draw political dividends and a timid attempt to destabilize the public situation in the country. The suggestion of a lack of reforms, of systemic problems in the main environmental sectors, leads, waste and atmospheric air, is supported by hollow political ones, non-constant conclusions and generalizations. Of course, it is difficult to refute in a few minutes the lack of serious arguments in the motives of the vote tabled, but I will try to present the most essential points on the three main topics. It is certainly that the main problem of the water sector in Bulgaria is the outdated water supply network. This is a problem for the whole country, this is also the main problem that led to the water crisis in Pernik. Due to insufficient funding from the budget, the main tool for modernization of the water network is European funding through Operational Programme "Environment" which is managed by the Ministry of Environment and Water. During the previous programming period "2007" 2013 funds were provided under Operational Programme "Environment" for the replacement of infrastructure and water cycles in all district centers. Pernik, unfortunately, and during the management of BSP is the only district town that has not defended a water cycle project. Thus, the city lost funding of nearly 80 million. lv. If the project had been implemented then, it wouldn't have come to this crisis today. The suspension of the Operational Programme "Environment" at Oresharski's time was, of course, the biggest failure in the environment because billions of investments in environmental infrastructures were frozen. The funds were thawed with efforts only by the second government of GERB. In the current programming period 350 million. lv. This year, the Ministry of Environment and Water signed and entered into contracts with the 12 consolidated water infrastructure investment operator worth more than 1 billion. lv. A contract has also been signed with the water supply company Pernik, for 105 million. lv. A contract has been signed with the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for the preparation of pre-investment studies for six more water and water operators. Projects of treatment plants in small settlements with the equivalent of 2000 to 10,000 inhabitants are financed, and on the Black Sea coast Projects are being carried out for small water supply sites worth more than 20 million. lv. and projects for collectors and sewerage worth more than 33 million. lv. There is also a Project for the establishment of a water management system in the pool of the river "Iskar" in real time after a delay of three years due to an appeal. In relation to allegations of waste failure. I am not a specialist like the pre-speakers who have shown an enviable knowledge in this direction, but what are the facts. By the end of 2017, the exploitation of all the old municipal depots, which were subject to criminal proceedings, which threatened our country with huge sanctions. For the reclamation of municipal depots projects of 42 municipalities are implemented. The reconstruction of depots in 29 municipalities is complete. In 2019 an additional 70 million were provided. lv. from the state budget and 120 million lv. under the Operational Programme of the Environment "2014 " 2020" for reclamation only. 53 new regional systems have been built and put into operation and Mrs. Vasileva mentioned it about waste management that meet the regulatory requirements. This allowed the permanent cessation of the operation of non-compliant depots. According to the current Operational Programme 2014-2020, contracts for the construction of 35 plants for the composting of green waste are signed and 19 plants for pre-treatment. In the recycling of waste in recent years Bulgaria can now be compared with the results of more than half of the Member States of the European Union. According to the preliminary data submitted to Eurostat for 2018, Bulgaria recycled 36% domestic waste, of which 28% is material recycling and 8% composting. It should be noted that the material recycling on average for the European Union is within approximately 30%. In Bulgaria, the energy recovery of RDF fuels from own household waste still takes a small share compared to the European Union...................................................................................... Less have only Cyprus, Malta, Greece and Croatia. The still small amount of RDF formed in the country, which provides for larger quantities of imports, as well as in a number of other countries - Latvia, Portugal. For 2018 around 94 thousand tonnes of waste for energy recovery were imported to Bulgaria, while 97% of them are for the three cement plants and only 3% are for the thermal power plants. The project "Pilot models for environmentally friendly collection and temporary storage of hazardous household waste" created the necessary infrastructure and organization for the separation of hazardous waste from households from the municipal waste stream in 22 Bulgarian municipalities. Five pilot centers were built to collect the dangerous municipal waste in the municipalities of Shumen, Razgrad the big ones, Sozopol, United and Levski the small ones. In addition to the pilot municipal centers, mobile collection points were delivered and schemes were created for mobile collection of hazardous waste from 17 neighbouring municipalities. Not to list them, but among them are Great Preslav, Kaspichan, Hitrino, Loznitsa, Samuel, Isperih, Testament, King Kaloyan. As you can see, these projects have not been implemented by any political or other sign. Our country has already achieved the European Union's objectives for recycling household waste. From a country with zero percentage for recycling domestic waste as of 2009, our country currently achieves 36% recycling of domestic waste, which is completely comparable or better as a result compared to more than half of the countries in the European Union. With its claim for the import of hospital waste, which BSP has launched in the last few days, the Bulgarian public is misled, tensions are provoked and fear is caused about the import of waste at a time when at European level the circular economy is encouraged, recycling and recovery of waste and stimulating the market of secondary raw materials. The Ministry of Environment and Water has not issued any notifications concerning the import of hospital waste from either third countries or from countries of the European Union. Globally, trade in waste is logical to increase along with increasing economic development. There is no way only Bulgaria can make an exception from global and European practices for the import and recovery of waste as basic raw materials, substitutes for the rapidly draining natural resources, such as metal waste instead of ore, paper waste instead of wood, plastic instead of oil and so on. For the most part, the waste imported is actually a valuable raw material that feeds Bulgarian recycling companies into the metallurgical, cellulose paper and glass industry, the production of batteries, batteries. Ms. Ninova's ideas for banning the import of waste from third countries are specifically directed against the recycling industry, innovation, modernization and competitiveness of the Bulgarian economy. They are also de facto against the environment of Bulgaria, because the substitution of primary raw materials with secondary resources is associated with less environmental impact, less use of water and energy resources in the country. Three sentences regarding the purity and quality of the atmospheric air. I will only focus on what we, as Parliament, have undertaken as legislative programmes. On 3 January 2019 a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Air Cleansing was adopted, which introduced provisions to limit the use of low-quality coal and briquettes for domestic heating. The Law established a basis for the adoption of a regulation on the quality of solid fuels used for municipal waste. The ban on mayors implementing the Programme for the Improvement of Air Quality in the event of non-compliance with regulatory requirements or with the objective criteria set for reducing the level of pollution has been extended. A requirement is introduced for the implementation of measures under municipal programmes to lead to an annual reduction of the excesses of the standards for harmful substances and of the annual average levels of pollutants in cases where they are above the specified standards for the quality of the air recorded at the monitoring points on the territory of the municipality concerned. Once again, legislatively, the control of periodic vehicle tests has been strengthened by updating product charges for cars by stimulating new hybrid motor vehicles. With our legislative act, the fee is zero. Mayors are also supported to develop or update municipal atmospheric air quality programmes. At the end of 2018 under the Operational Programme "Environment" a procedure was announced for improving the quality of the air for direct grant financial assistance amounting to 114 million. lv. for districts with abnormal ambient air quality, according to the indicator "fine particulate matter'. Over 600 million were also provided. lv. for measures to improve the cleanliness of the atmospheric air aimed at municipalities, which is six times above the initially allocated resource, with 111 million being allocated at the beginning of the mandate. BGN, aimed at domestic heating. In nine municipalities already meet the air quality standards of the air quality by the dust particles. The whole region in Northeastern Bulgaria. Varna, Dobrich, Devnya already meets the standards. As a result of the targeted efforts in recent years, air quality in nine other municipalities meets the regulatory requirements. To conclude, not running out of time for my colleagues, I'm going to make a comparison. During the government of the Triple Coalition with BSP at Prime Minister Stanishev for the first programming period of Operational Programme Now, under the management of GERB and the United Patriarch, these funds amount to over 600 million. lv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u95	Thank you, dear Mr. Yachev. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u96	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Yachev, you neglected to mention that during the Triple Coalition all the projects that are now under way were designed. You forgot to mention that the separate collection started working in Bulgaria right during the Triple Coalition, which you corrupted completely, based on the data that colleague Bozhankov delivered here. All the reports are fake! Mr. Shishkov, pay attention! That's the fake news! [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u97	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Second line? I won't. Will there be a hole, Mr. Yachev? I won't. We are continuing with the debates... I await your requests for a speech. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Karanikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u98	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Several questions have been asked about which the Ministry of Economy has the obligation and functions to answer. Regarding the obligation of the Ministry of Economy and its structures for the repair and control activities of dams, dams and facilities. It is certainly no secret that in the 1970s in Bulgaria large-scale dams, dams and facilities were built. Unfortunately, in 2016 it was found that the Bulgarian state, respectively the municipalities, did not know how many dams in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. In that case, the decision to replace the functions of the State Agency for Metrology and Technical Supervision is taken to start controlling these facilities and to describe their number. At present, the findings are supposed to be 6844 dams. Of course, don't imagine that all of them are the big dams, the big dams. Perhaps all of you remember that there have been great controversy about who will be responsible for the dams, which are not, for example, in the National Electricity Company, but are performing and operating activities, are well managed, are not in the Irrigation Systems, where they also perform some functions. The problems were in the municipalities. You know what was going on. The state agency of metrology and technical supervision went to check the dam of the city. An act establishing an administrative infringement of the mayor of the municipality and a corresponding criminal decree shall be drawn up. Why? Because the mayor of the municipality, or if there was another owner, didn't do repairs, and the truth is, they didn't have the money to do these repairs. Due to the lack of funding, everyone refused to assume the responsibility to manage and manage the dams. I'm talking one more time about those who are outside of NEK, outside of Irritation Systems, the municipal mostly. In 2017, it was decided that the Ministry of Economy and its structure would take on this obligation and responsibility, namely to transfer all the dams that municipalities or other departments could not use or not invest in them to build them. Even then we explicitly mentioned the government, and I think that you all accepted that the transfer of ownership of the dams from municipal to state enterprise will not end within one and maybe two years. To date, this is proven. The water law in the part where the dams were transferred has since been amended two or three times at the request of the State, the National Association of Municipalities, in order to ease the transfer procedure, but we cannot relieve it. Facilities which do not have technical documentation, property documents and any information on why and for what needs and purposes they are built cannot be transferred. At the moment, this makes it difficult for municipalities and regional governors, because in those years documents have either disappeared or were once done without documents, which I doubt. In parallel to this and for this reason, if we were to wait for the transfer of dams, which is still an exceptional problem to this day, we had to start repairs and now we would have invoiced to the owners of these dams, namely the municipalities, that is, we would not have solved this problem. You understand that if we were to repair a facility for two million and put a small municipality in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, an invoice of two million would not be possible for it. That's why we made another decision. The decision was to grant a target of 500 million. lv. It is absolutely correct, aimed at increasing the capital of a state-owned consolidation company, and it with its structures, namely the company "Montajji". We will talk about the company "Montaj" in a moment, to start the analysis of the state and repairs of these dams. With regard to the information on dam renovations. I appeal to you: open the page of the Ministry of Economy, it is not hidden. Inside you will see the number of dams at the moment are 182. There you will see those with open construction sites, I think there were 45. In fact, the construction of seven of these dams is currently taking place. I would ask you to pay attention to these seven dams that are underway and construction is currently being carried out, there are the quantitative values of the site as a price for the entire project and at the moment how much has been paid for the construction and repair activities carried out specifically. What I assure you is that from now on it will be so. When we start building, we will announce the project and the values, as is now done for these seven dams that are under repair. Last year we said we'd start in parallel three more. We are currently in the process of awarding another 58 dams to these 182. The last month we had to, you know, divert a little labor force in Pernik, but yesterday after the proposal of the Construction Chamber that they will help with strength and technique, I think we will focus on the dams again. With regard to the company "Montage". Now let's remember who the company was. This is one of the companies that once built the Bulgarian dams. Let us now recall what was the condition of the company - Montajs - three years ago - there were even parliamentary questions about its difficult financial situation? Why? Because it was used only as a sub-contractor. Using it as a sub-contractor, it could not make the relevant speed, experience and participate in public procurement. This company, little by little, went away with 100 staff. At the moment, it is committed to this whole process, but this commitment does not just mean money but means responsibility. We want more country, don't we? Now you've got exactly and clearly, if anything happens, you've got the Ministry of Economy, you've got the state company. My request is to note that the obligation of the Ministry of Economy is with regard to dams that municipalities cannot maintain. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Studena dam has never been apologized, from the line I heard, Studena dam has never and in no way been the commitment of the Ministry of Economy or the enterprise that operates the dams. [[(Replies from "BSP for ……]] No way. To the question, as it is asked by the Chamber: what are we doing there, I want to answer you. [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria "T," personal. "]] The company "Montage" is operating, including at the moment. If you see the list, one of the seven dams with a quantitative-value bill that is being repaired, you will see that it is in Pernik municipality. We had the power available, the technique and the desire to go up and help, and we did. I think that no one in Pernik, both in the municipality and in the district, has denied the fact that the Montagues have entered at the worst moment when everything was underway. Yes, in the city we do not have the ability to enter the city to do water, but we helped with equipment and with people, i.e. from the water supply said: please dig this into these parameters, we did it, we helped and it was priceless. Because we, besides what you see in the city, these people from December 21st are up in the mountains to make the water come at some point. She's gone, there's no 20 million cc's of water that we can take and pour at Studena Dam. With regard to the repairs for "Belli Iskar" because this is part of the proposal that we made, I pay attention to providing water to Pernik in the regime, which is now, because the dam "Studena" is drying up. The water there remains extremely small. I assure you that the state, the mayor of Pernik, had meetings with many representatives of science. Unfortunately, maybe you did it a few days ago, but we had done it before. It is not very appropriate that this should be in the part that you could have given us this advice two months ago, although we did it, we saw many scientists and many specialists - probably not all in Bulgaria, but there are many experts in Bulgaria. The bad thing is when three experts come and tell you four suggestions, but no one wants to sign what they're offering. From this point of view, the option that we have proposed by bringing the waters, which should normally enter the "Bellmeken" through "Belli Iskar" is a decision adopted by both Pernik and the crisis headquarters. Let's talk about it, because White Iskar is a real problem. As you know, White Isker has a capacity of 15 million cubic metres, and at the moment it has a little over 9 million, which is 59% of its ability to maintain this capacity. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u99	Do not engage in dialogue with the Chamber, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u100	I'm sorry, I really can't hear. You'll probably ask questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u101	No, go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u102	But let's say one more thing. Over the last 15 years, water has been diverted from the systems that are to enter the "Bellmeken" to the "Belli Isker" for 450 million ccs for the last 15 years, meaning we are not doing anything that has not been done. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I really can't hear what you're saying, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u103	Don't come in here and talk to the Chamber, Mr. Secretary. Expose your own.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u104	I mean, this is something that's been done. Yes, Belle Iskar. At the moment, Beli Iskar is controlled by several institutions. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We have a schematic, we'll present it. This is always done and last year has been done without a crisis in Pernik and Sofia. This is done, this is necessary for the system. For your comfort, we have agreed with all the competent authorities, first of all, with regard to what concerns you, although the correctness is to say that you were more worried about the fact that I am going from top to bottom, first of all, I will say about Belmeken. Last year, on January 6th, there were 34 million ccs. We have 80 right now, but it's not that important either. We have letters from all the competent authorities from NEK, from all those who hold this site, that these quantities are necessary. I'm opening the clamp now. Whenever this amount of water is supplied, it usually starts in December, January maximum until March. Because, in March, the water to the "Belli Iskar" -- that is, the rivers and all the springs to the "Belli Iskar" -- are leaving, and then this water is no longer needed -- it is stopped and again enters directly into the "Bellmeken" -- that is to say, in this regard, we are not doing something new, some kind of innovation. No, that's what you do every year. Now we're going to make it a target. Because, look, here comes the saga: they will drink Sofia's water. I rule that this has not been said by you or anything, but there is no such water in Sofia. Water is a national treasure. That is why we started to submit quantities earlier to "Bellmeken" by observing the standards of metrology, from the one who is currently in charge of the Sofia University of Sofia "Veolia" because under their concession contract and by law they remain those powers, they can control the activities there. Everything is done in sync with them. MOEW has given these prescriptions for diversion of water in crisis and this happens every year. With regard to the renovation of the White Iskar, which is a problem. I don't want to scare anyone, but at the moment, the norms that are submitted to the dam as water volume allow him to endure like a wall, but we must not close our eyes. Over the years, we've taken a lot of action. It turns out that there are two projects - one project of the state and one of Veolia, the company that manages Sofia water, but also operates this site under a contract. The two projects differ fundamentally as values and as years in which they were made. The problem of both projects is that they explicitly say that certain activities have not been investigated, which we believe to be a problem and should be investigated. For this reason, a project for the repair of the White Iskar project has been undertaken for several days. The same obligation with our request to Sofia Municipality we have made and the Council of Ministers has made a proposal. The money's there. We need a project. One more very important thing. "Belli Iskar" is part of a system that may be necessary, but also provides water to Sofia. From this point of view, we are in an absolute stick with the driver, so that when performing repairs we have exact amounts of water in It is very difficult at times, especially with White Iskar, to carry out repairs without draining water. I'm not saying it was done anywhere else, but I don't know how functionally it's gonna be, but that's what the experts are gonna say. About the replacement of the water supply network in Pernik. I note that there are two projects there. One is a European project that has been mentioned, which is being worked on. I hope from the summer of this year it will be awarded. I can't say anything about it. With regard to these 30 million, which were allocated by the State to the water sector in Pernik. These are elements outside Pernik's water cycle that were not included in the water cycle in the program. I am definitely stating what it means in Pernik with this money will be completed and the parts that are not foreseen there. The money was transferred to the city's account. The mayor did his job, but he still had procedures and he had to follow the procedures required by the Public Procurement Act. He did it. I congratulate him. At any given moment, I believe that the companies that will be doing the repair of the water network will also enter Pernik, because you are really right that no matter how much water we bring, if it runs on this water network, we do nothing. I'm ready to answer any questions. Just to say that there are other dams that we control and are in no way in a better state than White Isker, but at the moment we do not create concerns. The dams are controlled. Until last year, we kept them safe from flooding, everyone was looking to keep them at about 60 percent. We saw something else this year. The solution is simply that Bulgaria should have monitoring for water management from their own springs and rivers, where they flow, and down to the entire water infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u105	Thank you, dear Minister. Colleagues, we are continuing the debate. You have the floor to speak, Mr. Nenkov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u106	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! Of course, when there is a no-confidence vote, we, as a ruling party, have treated the work of fellow Members with due respect, have nevertheless prepared 40 pages. And parliamentaryism requires great seriousness when we stand on this stand and express one position or another. That is what we have done about these 40 pages that I have already mentioned. However, what impressed us and with which we can characterize these motives is in three directions. The first is a compilation of publicly available facts. Yeah, there's a problem in the sector. Most of the things that you have included in these motives are generally available facts, and no one has ever covered up, hidden or said things are wonderful. Yes, you are!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u107	That's what this is about!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u108	The second part of your motives is an attempt at manipulation. There are many untruths...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u109	Who, who?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u110	...and I think that the previous colleagues, before me, very well expressed their views on them. The third part, perhaps the most important, or rather the lack of one, is the answer to the question, given that we are talking and the reason for the no-confidence vote is not the situation, but the crisis in Pernik, you are giving absolutely no solution.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u111	Why are you lying??
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u112	Nor do you decide how the Water Sector should develop in general. I'll quote some of your motives. You say, "You have to judge for or against the Water Associations." Your governments have been involved in drawing up the legal basis on which we are still walking today. The Water Act was adopted in 2009 during your management. The strategy for the water sector was adopted in 2014, again in your management. Here there is the continuity of several governments that are moving on a certain reform, one way that we need to get to this reform. And now, in order to be accountable and honest with the Bulgarian voters, we have to say what is really the biggest problem facing the water reform. He's purely financial. Because the water associations are made, made, associated, and I'm sure it's the right thing to do. I am sure that your colleagues, who are well aware of the problems of the sector, believe that this solution is correct. The other thing that has been done, each of them has concluded long-term contracts with the water operators for 15 years. That's right, too. This is a demand for economies in scale, and I think we should not give up on this step. A lot of other things have been done. All regulations have been made in recent years. And now the biggest problem really before the Water Sector is not to look for some new alternative path, because we have negotiated this even with the European Commission, even when we have been associated with the European Union. Now the question is really to find the necessary resource for this water reform to be brought to an end. Data on how many losses can be re-exposed where, why and how, but in the end and according to World Bank data, what was developed years ago is that more than 11 billion are needed. lv. Assuming 1 billion. 800 million. lv. we have at the moment available in the previous programming period, but now we have for water projects, it remains a huge hole that we need to fill. Of course, it cannot come only from the price of the service, because this will go beyond the social tolerability limits of what we have staked it as important. Fact! Do not pass the social tolerability of the price of the service! But when we talk about this huge gap of underfinancing, we have to answer: where will these funds be available, at what cost, we will deprive ourselves of what, so that we can bring this reform to the end? The attempt at intimidation is in no way useful. Yes, perhaps the positive thing about today's debate is that everyone had the opportunity to say their ideas. I am thinking about the situation in Pernik, as I said just now that it is a crisis and there are people and institutions responsible for this carelessness, most likely they will bear their responsibility. GERB and "United Patriarchs." As a ruling party, we will also assume political responsibility because it cannot be the damage of the entire government. Fact! But it is a fact that the state is currently working with all its financial and intellectual resources to resolve this crisis as soon as possible. It's too bad the people of Pernik left because I wanted to turn to them. [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria]] and assure them that soon the state will make their sufferings and their hardships resolved. And look at the paradox! BSP raises a no-confidence vote in order to bring down the government and, at the same time, in this city, first, the mayor of Pernik comes out and says: "We are working well with the government. He said it repeatedly, and yesterday I saw another interview of him. This, on the one hand. On the other hand, Sofians and I, as a Sofian, believe that the Sofia City Council will vote precisely by giving this connection between Malo Buchino and Pernik to ease and bring water to the city. This means that the Sofian.. although perhaps everyone is asking whether this will in any way contribute a negative to the city, given that I am already old enough to remember when it was the regime in Sofia, and I know how unpleasant it is, but Sofians and Sofia show solidarity for what is happening in Pernik. Yesterday the Chamber of Builders comes out and says: Because they don't have to help Pernik in any way. And you are at this very moment deciding to overthrow the government!? I think it's absolutely untenable. Even if you excuse me, to complement the citizens of Pernik, no matter how unpleasant the situation is for them, even they do not go out to say: "Toukka must fall down. " On the contrary, they want an hour sooner the problem to be solved and I think they realize that at the moment the only one who can offer solutions and they are proposed and they are a fact, it is the current government. Colleagues, in conclusion, I would like to say the following: you once again failed to exceed your political selfishness. You want to resolve a crisis with the creation of a much bigger crisis, namely political instability, timelessness and a caretaker government, possibly appointed by the President, which has no responsibility at all, neither political nor any, in front of the Bulgarian voters. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u113	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. - What's the line? [[Replys from MPs from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Colleagues, you have the opportunity to take a cue from the stands. The line, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u114	Mr. Nenkov, you seem to know something. You said it would soon be resolved, perhaps these days. Here I will address BSP and Ninova! You missed the moment! English-speaking people call it "Tayming." [[Radio.]] You should have tabled that vote earlier. The measures have been taken, identified, implemented and none of the many observers, analysts, all logicians and politicalists could think of. There was no such thing. Slowly, the vote came in on Monday. Usually votes are debated and debated very quickly. If this happens during a vacation, an extraordinary meeting is called the next day, it was logical to be on Tuesday. Let's not do Tuesday on Wednesday, let's not do Wednesday on Thursday.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u115	Mr. Shopov, there are rules!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u116	I want to tell you: be more honest, Mr. Nenkov! And it won't be until when? Tuesday, Wednesday, then we'll decide. Time is passing! And if I'm on your side of GERB and Borisov, and he knows these things, there is an opportunity to start the water of Pernik these days. Until before, why? Because this bypass will be performed. What's it worth to him, 13 kilometers?! That's what we're talking about from TV, too, Alpha, he seems to be watching and listening to us. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u117	Listen! Listen!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u118	Because he listens very often...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u119	But watch this TV, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u120	...what the hall speaks, and what we speak on TV, Alpha. Unlike you, colleagues from GERB! We're talking to them. [[sighs left]] And we're teaching you! And we've had it with you for so many years to teach you not to learn! So how many miles does he have? They will be done very quickly. If it were the time of socialism that we all spit, it would be a feat in peace time for a few days...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u121	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u122	...the connection, the pipeline would have been a fact. So let go of the water in the lake of Studena, up to two or three weeks until it is made...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u123	Time, time!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u124	...tube pipe.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u125	Time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u126	And to end this lie right now here... [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u127	Time, Mr. Shopov! I made a commitment at least to the time to be very correct. I just want to make it clear to Mr. Shopov that today's vote is being debated by the Rules of Procedure, which in art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1 says that no sooner than 3 days and no later than 7 days the vote enters a debate room. Here you go, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u128	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Nenkov, I would like to draw attention to you when considering the Water Strategy adopted in 2012, we had our single management proposals and it should be really in the Ministry of Environment and Water. As before, and now the competent institutions are several, and we see, especially when there is no coordination, what is the result. In addition, for the Black Osam dam, I give you a specific example, and for other dams, it appears that there is a tendency to dehydration. Dams must be built in order to accumulate water volumes in the winter periods and in the spring to provide adequate water supply, above all, in the localities. There are also a number of other proposals that we have made for the Water Strategy, which have not been accepted. You can open the transcripts and see all these suggestions, now I don't have enough time to expose them. So there is something to be done, there is a way to do it, but there must be political will and we really must have a vision for the development of the Water Sector. A re-evaluation must be made and all the options that the operational programmes suggest must at least be implemented at 100%. Unfortunately, under the Operational Programme in the current period for 2014 - 2020...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u129	The weather, Mr. Chakarov!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u130	...it's only now that the procedures are underway and construction is being commissioned. Just two words, Madame Chairman!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u131	Please, yes!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u132	We are very concerned because this resource really needs to be implemented. Here, we see what the needs are, and the water losses!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u133	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u134	They're just starting! We're too late as a country.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u135	Thank you. [[The speaker keeps talking on off microphones.]] Thank you. Third line? I can't see. Mr. Nenkov for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u136	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Chakarov, I really appreciate the constructive line. After all, that you have made a proposal and are debating some topics and strategies and that maybe there should be some change, there is no dispute in this thing Yes, you are! Just to remind you that during the time of the government, actually GERB, that new water sources and new dams must be built for the first time in decades have been done. One of them is Luda Yana and the other one is Plovdivtsi, dams precisely designed for drinking-bit needs. Isn't that right? So we're actually working in this direction. Here, however, the bigger debate is different. The debate is about this: citizens already need to understand how this resource should be spent. Because it's not just the state, it's also the citizens. Let's answer frankly: how many of us use drinking water for irrigation, for washing cars? This is also a problem, and we need to change the whole consciousness. If we have considered water to be an inexhaustible resource until now, then the crisis in Pernik, and elsewhere, where there is difficult water supply, show that we need to change our overall thinking. This is the bigger and more global debate, and we need to show people what the path we're going to take is. As for my colleague Pavel Shopov and his reply, I will only recall the Bulgarian word "Tayming." BSP hit a lot. They're always aiming at this timing. If you remember, just when the whole focus of the world was aimed at Bulgaria for taking over the Presidency of the European Union, they found a vote of mistrust so that they could actually show their politically overgrown thought. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u137	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. Colleagues, shall we continue to debate? Do we have any more speeches? [[Reply from "BSP" for Bulgaria "How much more do we have?"]] I think three minutes, about three minutes. Last question? Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u138	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Council of Ministers, honourable Members of Parliament, honored guests from all over the country! Leaving people without water in the already advanced 21st century is in itself scandalous enough and there should be a resignation of the government the next day after Christmas after this happened. However, even more amazing are the explanations for this crisis. After explaining to us that people do not have water, breathe contaminated air and do not know where the junk came from at their door because of scenarios of some secret forces that want to push the government, today they explain to us that, calmly, the crisis has already been solved because a hell of a hock solution to Pernik's particular problem has been found. You remind me of those old masters who, with a hose from a washing machine, fix engines or with swerves go and say about every part they don't understand: "Throw it away." It doesn't serve anything! Is this how we're gonna manage the environment and the water? Is this how we will face the topic that will affect Bulgaria, Europe and perhaps the world in the next 10, 20, 30 years? Is this how we are going to face the challenges and those trillion euros that the European Union now considers to be this policy? With tubes, and with different decisions made Saturday morning to tell people something, and then send some minister to explain them. And they send it as in the Russian fairy tale: "Go, I don't know where, bring me I don't know what. " This is the policy of the government in this area. And was there supposed to be a no-confidence vote on her?! It is extremely cynical the argument they are saying to us: "Please don't take down the government, we are in crisis!" Well, your government, ladies and gentlemen, brings us from crisis to crisis, and so it will be from now on, you will sit forever, if that is the way we think. No, just because there is a crisis, the government must go away and come back to what does not allow these crises. Should I vote?! Well, that's the fourth vote, that's the fourth vote in two years! Shall I remind you of them? A vote against corruption. [[GERB lines.]] You rejected him! They say that they are happy and enjoying it! "Are you enjoying the experience of Transparency International since yesterday that Bulgaria is the most corrupt country in the European Union and shares one place with Jamaica and Tunisia? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] A vote in health care. They're not happy! And do you enjoy what Dr. Gechev said the other day and the fact that the Health Insurance Fund is drained for the same medicine? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] It's a public security vote. And he didn't! Are you enjoying the news every night? Do you enjoy the proposals you make in the Penal Code, faced with your own helplessness to ensure the elementary security of Bulgarian citizens? And now a vote of distrust in the environment and water. You're pretty sure he won't get through. [[Reply from GERB: "It will not pass! "]] Maybe it'll pass, maybe it won't. What is certain, however, is that you are absolutely unable to understand the crisis in which you put the Bulgarian society, even more so. You're so attached to preserving power, you don't know why you're protecting it anymore. We want to tell you that for most Bulgarian citizens there is no reason for you to remain in power because you do not fulfil your elementary obligations. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u139	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Time's up. Thank you. Colleagues, lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Vesselinoff, for your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u140	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the Council of Ministers, honourable Members! I'll take occasion from the words of the traitor. Yes, indeed this is the fourth vote of mistrust in this Parliament. The first one was about corruption in power and was motivated by "Sujukgate" with examples of corruption, according to the opposition, proven by newspaper cuttings from the construction of the fence at the border of the previous term. For the second, other clamps were turned over for murder because of things that are really shocking, but in the end they happen in every society. Neither in one of the three votes there was a normal analysis. There were press clippings, events were interpreted in a coup d'état and the whole time the government swore how because of something the state died, how it should be gone tomorrow, because, on, see, Bulgaria will disappear. Against this background, the current vote and the debate on it, I expected it really with interest, as there is a real and not abstract reason, as there are real management errors that I believe none of us can ignore or hide. And in the end, this was really the moment where there was some constructiveism, analysis, proposals, at all, to see that BSP is part of the solutions, not the problems of our political system. The second question, of course, is whether they are responsible in the same way. Because I remember in 2007 a tragic flood in King Kaloyan. Many people died again because of the wrong policies in the waters. I don't remember the government leaving, and I don't remember the idea coming to them even in their heads. However, I think there has been a slight change and a slightly more moderate tone, a little less black pathos, for which I thank colleagues. I think they're moving in the right direction. But the truth is that in the water sector, all those who have managed so far have contributed, as has been said. The architecture of the current water management system was adopted in 2009, literally in the last days of Stanishev's management, and in fact it is not a bad idea and is relatively decent and sustainable. From there on, including in these two years, in which you are clearly ashamed of Oresharski, in which you have ruled again, in this regard indeed our task as parliamentarians, as stakers, perhaps you as future rulers, is to find money to realize what is very good as intent. And in this regard, we should be allies, although I have never heard of you being very generous in budget proposals, I have never heard you offer millions, say, about the sector. On the contrary, your interests have always been directed in some other sphere. However, I cannot understand the waving of these threats about how the government wants to poison the people, how it wants to import their junk, import it and turn Bulgaria into a landfill of waste and so on, at least because the waste is 10 times more than those who are exported than those who are imported into the country. All these suggestions, in my opinion, do not have a good effect on the political climate and on the political system at all. It is clear that the goal of division is clearly that the elementary heat is a temptation to an opposition. But I think we shouldn't give in to him at least because for the three years that Bulgaria was dying, agonizing and had to go, we kept a sustainable economic growth of 3 All serious reasons to support this government. We notice, and with a certain concern, the turn of the BSP to the DPS, and that is another reason why we do not support this vote. The United Patriarchs will support the government.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u141	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. - What's the line? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Bikov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u142	Madam President, honourable Members! Surely the vote of mistrust is a legitimate instrument of the opposition that is the strongest instrument for an opposition, to put certain issues on the agenda of society, it is mostly an instrument for opposition to cause the government to fall, and hence, in most of the cases, and early parliamentary elections. I do not share the thesis that the vote is only a reason for debate. Debates can be made on different topics within Parliament and, according to the Parliament's Rules, ministers can be called, bills can be imported that are accompanied by debate, so I don't think this vote is just to debate here. I think you were wrong to submit this vote of no confidence. Clearly, there is a crisis and no one is denying it. Mistakes have obviously been made, obviously the situation is underestimated, obviously there is no water at the moment in Pernik. Over the past weeks and a month, the entire government, the ministers and the administration who are in charge of them, have been trying to control the crisis. This is quite normal and quite logical, including with the help of our former colleague and current mayor of Pernik Mr. Vladimirov. What happened in the last two weeks when you started to be active on this topic? The first thing you did was announce that you would want a vote of no confidence. What does that mean, essentially? This was your first proposal to get out of this crisis. This means: we are going to solve the crisis in Pernik - a regional, local crisis - by causing a political crisis. Can the political crisis solve the Pernik crisis? I don't think there's anyone who's gonna say he can unless he's a socialist. [[Laughter and lines.]] You can't. Because I will explain to you what the scenario is: mandates, elections, during that time you will choose and leader of your party, during that time you will not know, and it is not the issue, it is not the problem in the political crisis. The problem is that you can't solve it later, that's the problem. You have no idea at the moment how to solve a possible political crisis, to say: "We will make a government with this one, this one and this one, we will construct the political environment in some way. " No, you say: "Let us have a political crisis. " - She will go and from there what will happen? August, September, somewhere possible the administration will start working on these issues in Pernik, and what will the people of Pernik do until then? No one knows, because the country will be governed by a practically illegitimate government, unelected, and appointed by the administration, which is the Constitution, of course, will not be able to manage in a crisis situation. I just know how the resignation administration works. I was a councilman at the Council of Ministers while the government was resigning. [[Noise and lines.]] I think you're mistaken for this vote. What did you do next? You announced there would be a vote. Yesterday you met with experts, respected experts. They've given you probably quite adequate ideas. In my opinion, it was much better if you wanted to have a debate in Parliament, to organise a debate on the issue of air, water and so on. To meet, if you will, with your mayor in Pernik, to meet with the Prime Minister, the ministers, to propose these ideas, to propose them, if you will, as legislative proposals, to make consultations, to come up with some common action to be effective. [[Noise and lines.]] If we refuse, if we've already isolated you completely, yes, the last instrument is the vote of no confidence, it's the atomic bomb. But you throw the atomic bomb first, then you start saying what needs to be done. Yes, certainly much of your suggestions are true. The problem is that behind every proposal there should be funding, there should be organization, there should be coordination, there should be administration, there should be a lot of things. It is not only, I, too, as a person who knows nothing about water networks, will tell you: yes, if we fix in three months the entire water supply network in Bulgaria, probably the leaks in it will fall to 20% and surely so. But how much is this? It's worth 12 billion, as I understand it. Then where do we get them? Don't use lies, there's no need for that. You have enough reason to criticize the government right now to serve yourself with some colorful 500 grand. This hinders the resolution of the crisis because we cannot create a real picture of it. It should not be underestimated, but it should not be overexposed in order to have a realistic view of it. You're talking about 500,000, which you're not. Now in four villages in Burgas, for example, if there is no water, you believe that there is no water in the entire Burgas region. Well, it's not like that, it's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u143	Graduate, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u144	Therefore, I will call on you, once we reject this vote, to start a debate, because these are long-term policies. They must be conducted by all governments and not be within a single mandate. For many more years, the water supply network will be repaired. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u145	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Colleagues, I will no longer speak for debate, because the time of all parliamentary groups is exhausted. I'm closing the debate. Minister Avramova asked for the floor. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u146	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, MPs, fellow ministers! I listened very carefully to the whole debate from which, as I stated earlier, I expected constructive and working proposals for a solution to the crisis. Unfortunately for me, in addition to what is written in the motives, I have not heard a single working proposal, either in the short term to resolve the crisis in Pernik or a working visionary proposal for the development of the entire water sector. He grew up with 16,000 people who support the 90,000 water supply network. km built decades ago, which should be operational 24 hours, 365 days a year, whether it is winter or summer, whether there is drought or floods. The crisis in Pernik and the problems of the company became a cause for deliberate and deliberate discreditation of the entire industry. Moreover, over the past two months, action has been focused on increasing tension and creating fear in people. Of course, this may draw short-term political dividends, but I think it is incorrect to play with people's fears at a difficult time for them. It's true he's in trouble. It's true, 137,000. souls are in a time of crisis with water use. It is true that there are regions where not many people are in potential danger of introducing restrictions in water supply. True, there are uneven periods of drought and heavy rainfall. I would like to assure everyone that, in the situation we have created, we have warned the water operators of companies to be sustainable, to closely monitor the quantities of water in the ponds, in the local water sources with which they operate and where necessary to react in time, as in Pleven and Lovech, the crisis has passed with minimal inconvenience for people. I will not repeat what has been said so far about the crisis in Pernik. People have a right to be angry, and I'm angry. I am angry because the causes of the crisis in Pernik are both objective and subjective. The objective is that over a long period of time the inflow into the dam was minimal and the drain from it was the maximum amount to be derived to meet the needs of the population. I am angry that the water company, the principal of which is the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, acted legally and informed, according to the Ordinance, those who are concerned with regulating quantities of quantities in the pond. If they had sought assistance for logistical and other assistance, we could, as at present, all the administrations of the ministries that are relevant to the use of water in Bulgaria, take adequate and timely measures. But what happened happened. It's a lesson for everyone. What we are doing right now is looking for a solution and working to ease the regime in Pernik. I take this opportunity to thank all the experts who have offered their expert assistance and logistics. We have done expert analyses with the best hydrologists in the industry, water engineers, people with experience, professors from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, professors from the Mining and Geological University, people who have come and offered their own ideas and projects to deal with the crisis, both at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, at the crisis headquarters in Pernik and at the Ministry of Economy.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u147	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u148	All short-term actions have been taken to help the water company deal with the crisis, build the water supply, shift it, and find a lasting solution. I would like to emphasise that it is not a political decision, but an expert decision, which the politicians supported and the people have already been made aware that its preparation and implementation is beginning. You claim that, despite the over three billion European funding provided and spent, the losses in the water supply network are increasing. I am obliged to point out here that the funds needed by the water sector according to the World Bank's analyses are nearly 12 billion. lv. According to data from the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, state water and water companies on 30 September 2019 reduced their water losses to 58.93 per cent. These numbers, however, include because there is a mistake in understanding of losses, as are technical losses, which are leaks in the network, include in themselves and commercial losses, with which all water companies in Bulgaria have major problems. His decision we will try to find with the Water and Water Act, which we must present for public discussion at the end of April 2020. I would like to point out that the funds in the 2007-2013 programming period were eco-friendly, namely: the construction and rehabilitation of treatment plants and sewerage. So the real, huge work for modernization of the water networks in Bulgaria will be carried out in this programming period, with the earmarked resource being 1.8 billion. lv. from the Operational Programme of the Environment. Now, for the first time, investments will be carried out on the basis of regional pre-investment surveys that show real needs on the ground. The funding will not be fragmented per piece, but will be in full view of the needs of the region concerned. Already 11 water operators have contracts worth 1 billion. 20 million. lv. With the realization of these investments, we actually expect to improve the service in the water sector, such as what is at stake, to be both by the directives of the European Commission, and by the measures being put at stake, should lead to average water losses by 2024. " 48.8%, and I think it's quite realistic to do so. In fact, even now there are water companies that work well and cover the set goals. As an example, I can give water and water to Ruse, Water and water to Sofia, Burgas, Water and Water, of course, and Sofia Water. This shows that not only private companies can work well and be effective, but, in fact, state-owned companies can also show good results. What I definitely want to say is that the creation of the Bulgarian Water Holding company does not provide for a future concession of the sector. Many speculations have been made in recent days, and I have also read that the purpose of this holding is to privatize the sector. Alongside the criticism regarding the effectiveness of investments and losses is denied by light hand and the water reform carried out, and as her architect the name of a minister from GERB is indicated. Let me remind you that the activities of reforming the water supply and sewerage industry are actually laid down in the Water Act, which was adopted in 2009 by the 40th National Assembly. The tests were developed by the government with Prime Minister Sergey Stanishev in 2008. This is not a whim of GERB, it is designed, developed by the experts of the Triple Coalition, and is legally set by the amendment of the Water Act. GERB governments in the implementation of this legislation have developed strategies, plans and regulations to implement the provisions in question. This is continuity in the governments of the various political forces. The 2009 Water Act defined the ownership of the water infrastructure as public state and public municipal. With it was developed the new entity "Associations under the water system" which take over the management of the systems when the ownership in the separate territory is mixed, namely only municipal management is carried out by the municipal council. The Water and Water Association has an obligation to enter into a contract with a water operator for the management, maintenance and operation of the water and water services, to plan their development, to approve the regional master plan, to coordinate the operator's business plan. For the implementation of this reform over the years, many work has been done. The lists of Vic infrastructure are drawn up public and state property, the Associations are established, the material and technical capacity is built, trainings are carried out, 15-year contracts between the Association of Water and Water Operators are signed. With World Bank funding, regional general plans for water supply and sewerage have been drawn up. I will pass the claims that as a result of the actions performed all agglomerations, in which the dominant influence had had parties other than GERB, were left without funding, because behind this claim there are no facts. There are institutions whose aim is to take responsibility, but at the same time solutions must be found and there must be work on resolving the problems. The more important question is: from now on, what do we do, because practice shows that the most faithful solutions are in a crisis period? An important step will be the Water Act, which, as I have already said, should be ready by May. It must bring together in a single document the responsibilities, activities, policies related to ownership, construction, operation and management of water networks and services provided. The aim is to implement the mechanisms in force for implementing and social assistance to socially vulnerable consumers. We also plan to change the methodology and principle of the formation of the price of water, including, in addition to the variable part, a component that depends on the amount of services used and a permanent part that provides the supplier with the cost of guaranteeing this service. This is a topic on which we are yet to debate in the coming months. The law is also intended to reduce overregulation in the industry. The aim is to reduce the time and procedures for adopting the new business plans and prices for the following regulatory periods, as companies are currently working more as pseudo-market operators, and cannot generate revenue to cover their costs and investments through the cost of the service. I will say in the final a few words about the water holding company with 100% state participation in capital, with the principal Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. It will also accumulate and redistribute free cash flows to its subsidiaries in order to ensure the part of co-financing in the implementation of investment projects under the operational programmes, a problem that currently exists. It will address current financial problems related to the provision of working capital for the activity. It is also intended to form its own revenue by performing construction activities. The holding will also implement a common policy for companies, such as providing supplies of electricity for the needs of water operators, providing technical assistance, consulting and providing guarantees. Some of the funds will be put into new water supply supply supply lines for some of the settlements. There will be an opportunity to build new dams, which is imperative because of the alternating, as I said, periods of intense precipitation and permanent droughts. For the realization of these investment projects we will rely on highly qualified specialists, hydro- and water engineers, geodesists. We also expect support from the scientific community in this area. To this end, within the holding, our idea is to create a scientific-analytic unit to support industry work in decision-making. By establishing the holding more state will be achieved in the management of this strategic sector, better coordination and control, and the responsibility for the management of the water companies will be centralized. The question was raised that the new structure would discriminate against municipal companies, which also do not have investment opportunities. I see no problem by consolidation of a voluntary principle and conclusion of a contract with the water associations they also have access to funding... both European and support from the holding. Finally, I think that these good solutions that we have presented in recent days, as well as today before you to stabilise and develop the sector, will give us an opportunity in the coming days, first, to resolve the problem, which is in Pernik and in the future without waste of unnecessary public energy, without political quarrels and arguments to find a common language for solving the problems in a very large sector in Bulgaria. I think that responsibility means looking for solutions without unnecessary politics and looking for options to make people's lives better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u149	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Svilensky, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u150	Thank you, Madam President. I am doing a procedure in the manner of conduct because today was very important for both Bulgarian citizens and the residents of Pernik and the guests who came to the Chamber today to understand from the MPs, the Council of Ministers, to hold this debate not only on how the crisis in Pernik will be resolved, not just on how the crisis in the country will be resolved...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u151	What's your remark to me, Mr. Svilensky?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u152	My point to you is that you admitted the prime minister who was responsible for the crisis in Pernik, who was responsible for Studena Dam, stood silently for three hours and observed the debate in the Chamber, as he was silently observing the draining of the dam, and then, when the time of all parliamentary groups is over, and when no MP is able to take any attitude about what he will say, to come out and 15 minutes to tell us fairy tales on the side of miracles. There is no way, Madam President, in this way to resolve the problems in the country. I thank Mr. Karanikolov for having the courage to come out in the process of the debate and to tell his view, but Mrs. Avramova to come out after it was all over and to say 20 minutes of things that we all know and she had to connect them was unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u153	I understand your remark, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u154	The only good thing about her showing this tribune is that the Bulgarian citizens, the guests of the country, saw the responsible person for the crisis in Pernik. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u155	Mr. Svilensky, you also had the opportunity to ask questions to the ministers who have been here since 9:00. Here you are, Mrs Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u156	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Svilensky, from 9:00 am listening carefully to everyone who speaks from this tribune. In the last few days, a month and a half is a 24-hour search for a solution to the Pernik crisis and we found it. From this tribune I did not hear your proposal for a decision. From this tribune, I have heard your verdict.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u157	Who's responsible for the plumbing?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u158	I would like to ask you, Mr. Svilenski, by issuing sentences from the National Assembly's stands, where, in what legal document have you read that the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works monitors the volume in the water basins that gives permits to give opinions on the water supply from these pools? For the past two months, your party has been trying to place faults in front of the Ministry's doors, protesting and none of you has explained to the Bulgarian citizens: the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, except that the Ministry has committed itself to building an infrastructure and providing funds for repair, for reconstruction and rehabilitation of the water infrastructure, where, Mr. Svilenski and your party, have read that the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works is monitoring and giving permissions for water supply and it must be referred to Pernik's citizens as the culprit for the crisis in Pernik? At the first moment I realized that there was a crisis in Pernik, this was the scandal that broke out, and then the efforts of all of us and my colleagues were aimed at helping solve the crisis. I've never allowed myself to deny... In the media, at this moment, and today, any charges. I kept quiet because I thought that at some point you would wisely read which commitments which ones have. I think of it as misleading the people of Pernik with purely political motives. You just wanted this Council of Ministers to go away another minister. That's your goal! [[Radio and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That's why you've decided that you should choose guilty, but the competent authorities in the state that issue sentences and say who's guilty, Mr. Svilensky, are others, it's not you. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u159	Thank you, dear Minister. Personal explanation Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u160	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Avramova, it's nice to have you here for three hours, but why aren't you listening? When did I say that Mrs. Avramova, you or the Minister were guilty? I said responsible! The difference between guilty and responsible is very great. And if your ministry is not responsible for the case in Studena, why did you fire the director of the water and not hold him until you have no responsibility? Why here on December 20th, when the question was asked and you were alerted to the case, did you not take any action? And why do you answer questions on which you have no responsibility?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u161	The personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u162	And once again, because I was accused of issuing sentences from this tribune, I didn't pronounce sentences, other people pronounced sentences from this tribune, from another political party. I said, I pointed to the ministers responsible. We don't want your resignation, Mrs Avramova! We want the resignation of the entire Cabinet! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Because all of you together are to blame for this to happen. Because you are a team and as the President of the National Assembly explained in the morning the meeting of Mr. Borisov with the fans of Levski, which is much more important than the problem...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u163	I haven't explained with the fans of Levski. You haven't been listening, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u164	You said they were representatives of the Council of Ministers...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u165	Personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u166	Personal explanation, yes, that's right. I'm explaining...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u167	On the subject Mrs Avramova asked you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u168	The issue is the problem in Pernik, the water crisis and the responsibility of those ministers who came here today and those who did not come, respectively. Because the principal in charge, I say, not the culprit, was supposed to be here at the first spot on the left. He was scared once again by the Bulgarian Parliament... [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u169	Mr. Svilensky, no political speeches. You had the opportunity to explain yourself. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You have the right to a personal explanation and time... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] In the manner of conduct there is the word Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u170	Dear Madam President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The last thing that's happening in this room again confirms that the Prime Minister was supposed to be here. It should have been about even synchronising what the parliamentary group spoke, broadcast by its party, as well as the ministers broadcast by its party. Here, in this room, we heard...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u171	In the manner of keeping what is your remark?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u172	Yes, he should have been here and you should have invited him, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u173	I invited him.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u174	Because until now, it cannot be argued in the Chamber that the water from Pernik's plumbing network has been drained, and then another can be blamed for monitoring the quantities at Studena Dam. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u175	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. The Minister of Environment and Water has the floor. Mr. Dimitrov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u176	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, dear guests! Just a week ago, I said goodbye. I want to declare again that these five years, because I will not live a thousand, for me were very important five years, it was an honor to work with you! On the way out, I heard a number of accusations: I was professionally incompetent, I shouldn't be in charge and I shouldn't be making decisions, I should be conducting politics at the Ministry of Environment and Water. Why? Because I've been a law attorney at the moment. It wasn't enough. The left said I didn't deserve this job. We can't. We're against it. And why did you applaud Mrs Cornelia Ninova's statement? How is she different from me? She's doing the same thing. A lawyer gathers people of Positano to advise her, comes here and reads what they have advised her. What else am I doing at the Ministry? I'm leaning on the Ministry's expertise and trying to make the right decisions and continue this government's policy. For her, you're clapping, you're against me. Here are the two standards, and we are the same. [[Radio and applause in the BSP for Bulgaria.]] The only difference is that at this post I could do something in politics, and she couldn't. To preserve all his skills, efforts and knowledge when he manages to conduct them. That's the difference that we have two standards, and one of them is who we like. Two countries - one is redundant. I don't want to talk about our mutual friends, the little souls you went to harass my mother. An eighty - year - old woman with one eye is blind, has a large diopter, what clothes she was wearing, what stove she was burning, whether with coal or wood, how she dressed.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u177	Let's get on with it, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u178	Hate me, don't hate people who aren't relevant. It's not right. We don't have equals in the worst way. On the subject. I had prepared a special statement for you with numbers and data. In the debate, however, it turned out that the colleagues had prepared themselves, they reported them. I'm not gonna waste your time on them, I hope you've heard them both by performance and by everything. When I came in, with regard to the waters, I asked: tell me what projects? It turns out that the ministers before me have made a number of efforts, managed to earn funds. These funds are yet to be absorbed. What the Ministry was supposed to do is now in the waterworks. But it was broke, there was no money, couldn't you give it to them? Couldn't Europe want them to have an accessory, couldn't someone else give it up? And then who else is responsible? All this is not important, but the Ministry has mastered this money. They're here, they're on projects. You understand that anyone in my place, after it turns out that the previous minister drank all of Pernik's water, would have run away from the waters, put them on any replacement, just so he wouldn't have to deal with it, because tomorrow you'll have drank the water of Iskar, the day after tomorrow of Shumen, third day... All the water, wherever it's gone, the Minister of Ecology drank it. I took them into account with me, but I asked: what funds did you use? In 2017, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. seven percent agreed amounts in 2018 "48%, double in 2019" 91.8 per cent. Not to say it in numbers and in billions, that's the contract. Everything you need is done. And you see that height. How can these people not let them continue to negotiate and exercise control in the same way?! Only absorption is no longer our concern. There are plumbing. This one wants, this one wants, and when you give him the conditions: Can't there be no sanctions? And we don't divide them into blue, green, red. So much for the background check. Most dams were built between 1955 and 1975 and some later. When do you think the pipelines that bring the water from them to the settlement network were built? Well, at the same time, they'll be when they're one or two years apart or parallel to building the dam. In what condition is the network, when its durability is much smaller than that of the dams? On the dams, the facilities can be replaced. The leading pipelines are what are some 50-year-olds, others 70-year-olds. What's it gonna be?! I rewrote my text and asked the Ministry for urgent inquiries because here Mr. Dubov... [[Radio and laughter.]] Wrong! I apologize. Ivan Ivanov started bothering me with Shumen. After all, I am also a member of Shumen. Let's start with Shumen, because he started to list cities, and I asked for everything about these cities. Anything for these cities! And Shumen, after all, I'm a MP from there until recently. Congratulations to my colleague! There was a whole system of pumping stations, including karsts. Was there this in Shumen, or wasn't there, a fellow pipeline, a camera over the city and almost enough power for the city's needs at the moment, as a quantity of water? Is this now destroyed in the last three years, or is it back in time?! Was that there or wasn't there? The water is sinking over the years, and we keep the price low because it's very nice to like each other. We don't want to pay electricity for the pumps, we don't want pressure plumbing and very easy! It's coming from above, it's leaking, let's hang over there. Not he, but three more cities, because it is very nice and so it is throughout the country. We've got problems, we're in a lot of trouble, we're having a hard time maintaining the financial situation, the price, we're failing. Is there somewhere we can get some pressure? There's a run. However, the run also serves to irrigate. And now what do we have to do to stop the losses? I told you we're powering up two more cities, and we've got Preslav and Targovishte separately, and we've got a settlement system, and we've got a pressure plumbing, which is my grandmother's set. Is the cat of a dam dropper and a cat of pumping station 1300, which powers Shumen, is 80 meters apart. To explain that 80 meters is eight atmospheres is unnecessary. Of course, when walking on a hilly area, it is not exactly the way the demand is less pressure, but it has to withstand eight meters. But more important is the pipe. It's standing at 3.5 to 4 atmospheres right now, well, it's old, it's worn out, and when you drop it and fill it with water, 25 damage is fired. You repair them again, turn off the water again 25 damages. This pipeline has been compromised. At the moment everyone in the sector, everyone in Shumen dreams that the pipe will permanently break so that someone from Sofia can come and do it to them, because it's very good how bad we are, all attached to this pipe... Where's Sofia? Three cities immediately get them out on the street, we start blowing flags and we say, "Where is the state here, she's our fault?"! Who destroyed the pumps in the city, who destroyed the pipes, who did all this stealing? I know the answer: that was the time. It was a long time ago, we don't remember. But what king doesn't matter if Sophia comes. And who made the decision to move only to the run? Me, in the current term, the people before me, some of the previous ministers?! It's not our decision at all. That was the time. Sliven. But they're not bad in Sliven right now. They have a choice. They can do their own, they can do it from the dam, but their own are pumping up three diversions, but they're still costs. The other one's cheaper. Tell me now, right now, before there was a dam, was Sliven a desert oasis? No, there was water again. It's good to have the dam. It had a need to build it. But are we just going to rely on these dams and dams alone?! Are we going to destroy everything else?! We're going the easy way. We are currently prescribing to reduce consumption and the dam to use its own sources, but somehow it doesn't work. Before the election we always have no water problem, everything is always fine. Then what do we do? It is a magnificent dam, only it powers almost the entire Black Sea coast, it goes to the one to Burgas, the other to Varna. Varna has its own water sources, but they are a bit expensive and rely entirely on this dam. But he's counting on the South Black Sea coast! Let's go to the South once there were far-sighted people, made clear meadows. From Chernomorets down to one, the other up. The split stands on Khitka. But what do we think of Varna? Summer season is coming, tourists are coming, but we need to save water. You know, with a lot of water and a little bit of water, it's bad. When she's in the middle, she says, "Save her, because we don't know how much longer she'll be, and there'll be for next year." Suddenly rain falls, we start: drop the dams, adjust the drop, fill the derettas. Some say, "Saved, saved, ended up in the derettas." For Kamchia. Kamchia's largest treatment plant. Before they build Sofia, she's there. It feeds the entire Black Sea coast. Has anyone raised the question of what the repairs will be, the rehabilitation of this station? Well, she feeds the whole Black Sea coast. Half of them are rusty, the rest is left with the old. These people deserve to be given money. They're upstairs under brutal conditions working. But it's a beautiful dam! It's a big pipeline. Everyone thinks I have a special phone in the register, and I call upstairs and say, "When's the rain?" When's the sun? When's it gonna be a storm? Will there be a flood? How's next year gonna be next year? Well, I won't, and I have to balance everything. Maybe if I do, I haven't found a call, but they won't call me back. When it rains, when it snows... It's hard to save water for a year and then fill the derettas. Mr. Chakarov said to stop the dams to fill them up. Done! Give it as an idea, I'll take it. But they rely only on these dams? What are we doing? People are not guilty of far-sighted or short-sighted decisions in the past. If we pass water into the river from the dam, we carry sanctions.. why did you drop them, why did you do it? When we pass it to the village network and it pours it into the ravines, there are no problems. It's leaking, it's been leaking for years. You understand that the same thing is our fault, and criminally, others pass between the droplets. It got to me on water, by the way. You were screaming: to leave you... My first appearance here is debate. To hide their inactivity in mending the holes and renovating the network... Give us more to pour down, otherwise two wavings we take out into the street and start: pass more water, pass more water! And we bad guys don't pass because we save it. Botevgrad. I don't know why you reported it to Botevgrad. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I've called urgently to bring me the folders. Irritation systems, police, D.A.'s office, Swimming Pool Directorate. Why did you even open Botevgrad, I don't know?! Do you know what happened? It's exactly the same as in the whole country, only it's happening right now. If that's where the equipment was ever looted, they're not doing anything right now. If there's only one water supply there, and now what's going on, we have a water problem, here's where it's happening. Because of the crisis, I will now tell you, in the years of a dam, drinking water has been used. In the rest of it, it's exactly the same, the only difference is that it's now. The company has a plumbing and a treatment plant. There is also permission for water use and its own water sources. It only went to one dam, however, by chance instead of the plumbing to the treatment plant, which was allowed by the Swimming Directorate, they were hooked on to another water supply of the water systems with 17 illegal bypasses. You illegally engage in another pipe, and from it you power the city without a treatment plant without permission. I will not categorize what this deed is! First, they drink unclean water. Second, no indication of what went through. And thirdly, irrigation systems that run the dam can't control what or how it's leaked. But there's no guilt! Do you think there is?! Only at the moment the water fell, suddenly it was called: there was a hydroelectric power station. Well, he didn't work. But these bypass connections are established, they're there, they're recorded, they're in schematics. It wasn't economic, it wasn't... All the systems are there. They're known where they were made. That thing's clear. Now to ask as Minister yesterday brought them to me [[shows documents]] I have to make a decision, I have to take action, because we are officially called upon. Tell me first: we're shutting down Botevgrad's water. We're shutting it down! It's not the water use, it's not the water supply, we're shutting it down.! Are they interested in our stories? They will suffer without having their own... Second, we stop stealing through illegal bypasses. They still won't have water! They still won't have water! And the other one, the normal supply, it's gone, the people are suffering again. We ask: why is it unclean? They're gonna say, "She's fine right now." If we open a treatment program tomorrow, they'll say, "But please, let's get this water done faster." And you understand that you don't have the right move. Tomorrow, however, if an accident occurs on this water supply in the city and children are injured, they will immediately say, "And you, after you have been informed, what have you done?" If we stop the water bad, if we don't stop the water, we're under criminal responsibility. I have to ask, because there are always questions here, did you abandon the town's own water sources at random? Did MoEW make these illegal bypasses established by the police, by the D.A.'s office, by everyone? Did the MOEW build in a strange way, I will not say the exact wording, the plumbing to be in such a way that it threatens the health of people, health and life? Did MoEW do it? Did it do the water supply scheme like this? And after all this, does the MoEW raise money for the sold water to the citizens of Botevgrad because they pay for it is not free? MOEW only gives permission to use water! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] No, no! I don't share them in white, green, red, blue. I want you to understand me correctly! I'm not gonna do it that way! Because it's very easy, when you're not satisfied, well, those who are satisfied, to fix their system, you're obviously dissatisfied. All that's left... MOEW only issues the permission to use water. Everything else is outside of us. But if the dam stopped, what does the MOEW do? And what happens in the city? You have experts, don't you? We're shutting down the water tomorrow! No! Because you can also make a political decision about theft of up to 10 million, about up to 17 illegal bypasses or about 100 people poisoned in cities in one government, 250 with another government, 300 with, for example, independent. No, no one will make that decision! And it's sitting on my file. Tomorrow you will go and say: we stand behind the citizens of Botevgrad what does the state do? And where was the state right now when she did it, she gave her license? If you stop the water strike. You're not shutting down the water. You're taking responsibility. Next time the vote will be for the plumbing in Shumen, Targovishte, Preslav, together with the villages, and we will ask: where is Sofia, faster to do it to us and then give it to us. The next 50 years is us. There were no water meters, there were no losses, there were no losses. Something was paid, something was based on it doesn't matter. Somebody do it to us! Let me not list, because it's been a long time. This information will be provided to the Prime Minister. You asked the question about these dams, and I rewrote everything I had to say here. Anyone in my place would reject the Water Department. I will take it on direct submission not the entire Directorate, but those who deal with the fields and the waters. I've been through a few dams, and I'm not gonna say them, because it's gonna come out another way you're gonna understand. I'm gonna need complete and accurate information. In terms of Pernik. You know it's my hometown. You know, I'm a little overreacting. This does not mean that Shumen is disgusting to me or that I will take care of everyone. But there's no way that a wall built in 1956 for the April captivity could be very young, beautiful and beautiful... I was born a few years after that. Mrs. Ninova was born a few years after me. In the morning, when I look in a mirror, I don't see a groom. If you have a beautiful mirror and you want to see each other like this... Do you think the wall hasn't changed in all these years? Do you think he could be in the same condition? There have been no remodeled dams in the last 30 years! Is this my fault?! And they have to be repaired! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] There are no repaired water supply systems. We've done our job. [[Noise and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u179	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u180	I have a reference that lists all the dams and fields. What I have done: I called the meeting of the High Water Advisory Council on 30 January 2020. In terms of waste, because it was also a topic of not saying that we were running away from the subject or keeping quiet. We have super-European legislation and super-Bulgarianism in circumventing it. We have very good legislation, in full compliance! However, when we apply it, it turns out that things are not exactly like this. Mrs. Nikolova explained to you, at all, all the colleagues, how many depots, behind projects, we've fixed them, the temporary ones, not to repeat these figures. You've got it. In terms of waste. In Bulgaria the regulations are strictly observed... we do not introduce new ones. Imports are limited, even if it is 50%, the other 50 are ours. In Bulgaria, I would like to point out that no imports of hospital waste have been allowed from either the European Union or third countries! Don't do it! Don't do it! Bulgaria has not allowed RDF from third countries! She didn't allow it. The claims that there is an import of hospital waste only create delusion and psychosis. There was some truck transiting through Bulgaria, there was a car accident, everything burned down, they addressed it in one code: you made a revolution: in Bulgaria all the hospital waste in the world! There aren't any! There aren't any! What is more, we are strengthening control. They came to me yesterday from the business, the legal business, said: "They are also interfering with us, and they are embarrassing us, and our prices are undercutting us. " [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'll report it to you. I'm obliged to report it to the board. [[Replications between MPs from BSP for Bulgaria and GERB. Awesome.]] What I want to be clear: at the moment, under the newest European Union legislation, it is important for you to know it, regardless of your political biases, the goals are set: 65% we must have recycling of household waste. We don't want to do this, we have to do this. The deposit must be 10%. What are we doing? If we have 100 kilos of waste, we have 65 to recycle, what's left is 35. Ten of them have to be buried. What do we do with the other 25? We have to burn them. These installations aren't bad, they help us not to have mountains of garbage. The problem is that the plants have to have filters so that the air that then comes out doesn't poison the population. We have gaps in the system because, using frivolously from the European rules, following them, what you see on TV, and I see it, and I don't like it. My kids are breathing the same, and my grandkids are breathing the same, and so are you. We've cut off one power until it's aligned. We don't want to interfere with business. We have three cement plants working well. We have power in Sliven. No violations have been detected. It works well. I very much hope and will do everything possible in Sofia because, whatever we talk about, Sofia is half Bulgaria to work, if possible, faster. I mean, I'm gonna make my contribution. I have ordered the deputy minister, who has dealt with the European negotiations, with the provision of the next programmes, the one of us who would do best, directly to take over the portfolio. I am only doing this so that I can do everything possible in these negotiations not to have to go in right now, yet to learn and for some careless or ignorance to do something from which Bulgaria will lose money. Everything we have to do to win the new programs, I've made it happen, and I've done everything I can to help them. However, I have problems in Bulgaria. Colleagues, we're in front of criminal procedures. Either we have to pass a law or we get a penalty! It's clear that we can't pass a law because we're facing a penalty! Tomorrow you will say: why did you let Bulgaria lose this and this money? I'd say that if I were you. Okay, we're coming to Bulgaria. We have the Law on one side, the mayors say: "Can't it be less, can't it be any other way? Well, okay now, one fight, one fight, the other fight, nothing to do and have sanctions?! There has to be a law. There must be an understanding between the mayors and the Greens. Me as which arbitrator should I go and persuade on behalf of the Green Mayor or Greens on behalf of the Mayor?! At some point, I'm going to invite them all, because there are no municipalities that I have to defend or not to defend. But if they don't understand, because that's what I want, and they haven't agreed for quite some time, I can't wait for them forever, because in Bulgaria we are all losing money! Then you'll ask me, why did we lose them? When I come to you tomorrow to pray for your support to take this or another measure, you are interested in failing me so that the money from Europe will not come. The Greens are interested in being exactly the way they see it. It may be the right thing to do. The mayors of the municipalities have taken votes. They are also interested. And I have to play between all of them, convince you how and what should happen, and that has to happen, and that has to happen. Even when you reach out and say: let the measure to the municipalities be smaller, softer, in the minimal version, suddenly stand one and say: No, you ruin everything, I don't want anything to happen to stay present to see how insensitive you are. Pretty soon, I think I've been called in next week, that's what I'm supposed to do, and when I'm called in, I'll be in charge of the press committee. I'll ask these questions, and I'm sure you'll forget then. Let's stop the dams from filling them. Let's make the settlement network, but they don't have to be responsible! So how do we give money from Europe this way? We can't afford it. Even my statement I do not know if there will in any way affect Bulgaria, because I have said that there is a potential danger of giving the waterworks that they do not deserve at all. Our main directorate, the only one who is directly subordinate to me, is dealing with the processing of projects. Understand, it's a process. Now it's something that's going on. I'm going to find out in six months that it wasn't right or wrong. But six months from now, it's gonna be hard. So everyone who hasn't prepared their projects, who is dealing with long and difficult procedures and finding reasons not to participate, not to be mad at me at all, that then, instead of money for them, yes, I know that you all need them, I have directed them to those who have done their projects. If I don't get my hands on the amount, I mean the Minister of Environment and Water, before me was Mrs. Ivelina Vassileva and everyone else in this case for this year, if I don't get my money, Europe is taking it away from me! I won't let that happen! We are currently spending funds acquired by previous ministers. I spend other people's money. Right now, I'm doing everything I can to keep the next funds from coming. But I will do my best to make sure that certain funds for Bulgaria can be mastered. To be able to digest! I've set a critical date for myself: whoever catches the train that caught me then doesn't get mad at me, will wait for the next train if there is one! And not to say, "But that's exactly what happened here, something got in the way." Don't get any ideas at all. I won't share you by party bias, I won't share you by projects. But by no means will I allow loss, or at least from me, which depends, I will do my best. I can't have 93% absorption in the report, and I want next year to be the same. I don't want to lose money. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] But I don't want sanctions against Bulgaria either! They'll come out under my windows, they'll call me anything, I'll accept that. Just don't bother children, mothers, relatives, it's not right. I'll do everything I can to control the air. [[a line from MP Dragomir Stoynev]] , the system of introduction of waste depots, the water system to give a clear and accurate picture. And I'm gonna tell you what's gonna happen right now. It is the right of the opposition at any time to ask for a vote of no confidence and to make questions. I can't be mad, and I shouldn't be mad. However, it is the government's right to want to bring the Programme to its end. I am working here right now. I will do my best not to lose money, to adopt the laws, to win money for Bulgaria, and those who have already been won thanks to the previous ministers, to be able to absorb them. Thank you all! I hope you vote on your conscience! [[Extreme applause from the House.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u181	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. This was an evaluation for last week "the colleagues of BSP...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u182	It's a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u183	There was a personal explanation, yes. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u184	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Dimitrov! Perhaps you should regret all the ministers here that the Prime Minister was not here. I hope you have listened carefully to the assessment that your Minister of Environment has given, about the chaos and the outrage that is being done in the sector of Ecology and watering!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u185	That's not a personal explanation, Mr. Ivanov! Explain yourself.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u186	Listen carefully to my personal explanation because it started with me. [[Radio, GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u187	I'm listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u188	All this stuff that's going on, I hope it's been heard carefully by the Attorney General because the data is there. Mr. Dimitrov is talking about Shumen. He may be communicating with Mr. Dubov, but in the last six years, at the will of the political power and the people, I am here asking the questions of ministers who have passed before you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u189	That's why I gave you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u190	And you have wonderfully described the nonsense that took place in the Water and Water, Shumen, during these ten years, during the reign of GERB. First, second and third terms!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u191	What has affected you personally, Mr. Dimitrov, besides mistaking your name?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u192	I have asked a question and no one has reacted, Mr. Dimitrov, here, from this tribune of a bunch of ministers, of ecology and of regional development: why is the Water and Water Department Shumen destroyed? Because during the three mandates of GERB the alternative...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u193	Is that a personal explanation, Mr. Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u194	That's the personal explanation because I asked the question and he turned to me about Shumen.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u195	You will now have the opportunity to ask the new minister a question and he will answer your parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u196	No, no, no, I want to explain, because the sad epilogue of the water company is the bankruptcy in which it is currently located. And I'm gonna call you back here to explain why this thing is happening and when you're gonna end it. But it is best to truly end the existence of this agony, which is currently poisoning the entire country. You'd better resign, Mr. Dimitrov, because it's sad what's happening to us what we've heard from you. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u197	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Colleagues, today's debate is over. The vote of no confidence will be voted on January 29, 2020, Wednesday, at 9.00 p.m. Please do not leave this House.. We have another point that we need to vote on, which is important. Moving on to item two on the agenda: PROJECTS OF DECISIONS FOR CHANGES IN DELEGATIONS OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. Project! DECISION to complete the composition of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 38 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Dimitar Ivanov Danchev as a replacement member of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Please, voting mode. They voted 124 MPs: 119, against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. We have one more suggestion: Project! DECISION to complete the composition of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 38 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Krum Kostadinov Zarkov as the main representative of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Please, voting mode. Vote 126 MPs: 117 against 1, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Let us thank the ministers for participating in today's debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u198	Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions for the period from 17 January to 23 January 2020. A question was received by the MPs Ivelina Veselinova Vassileva and Emil Marinov Hristov to Emil Dimitrov, Minister of Environment and Water, about taking measures by the Ministry of Environment and Water to prevent violations in the field of waste management legislation. Response should be made in the plenary sitting on 31 January 2020. I will provide the written answers from: - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on a question from the National Representative Violeta Zheleva; - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Jankov; - Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov; - Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Jankov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Jankov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Jankov; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Jankov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Jankov; - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mariana Nikolova on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mariana Nikolova on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on a question from the National Representative Konstantin Popov; - Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov on a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Alexander Nenkov. We are moving on to Ms. Mariana Nikolova's hearing. Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy. She'll answer two questions. The first is from the MP Pavel Shopov concerning citizens of India who received working visas in the Republic of Bulgaria. Here you are, dear Mr. Shopov, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Deputy Prime Minister, some time ago, in fact, last days, statements and publications have appeared in the media for the fact that My question to you is: is this information correct? If so, who are the companies that hired these workers? On what basis did they negotiate their wages? What are the regions and settlements in which they are distributed and are currently working and living? Do you think that this policy is good, that this policy does not make the persons and foreign workers in question practically jump over the wall that we have built around us and enter Bulgaria, respectively, in the European Union, in this supposedly legal way? Doesn't all this create pressure on the labour market in a direction and in a sense to lower the salaries of the Bulgarian workers, in terms of creating a competition that is not fair and which will prevent the minimum and average wage to increase? Isn't that what the fisk is suffering from? This complex of issues on which this correction needs to be debated. Do the ministries for which you are responsible and under your leadership have any intention as a state policy to correct it? [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u200	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Here you are, dear Mrs. Nikolova, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u201	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Shopov, according to data from the Employment Agency in 2019 access to the labour market was granted to 135 citizens of the Republic of India. The largest number of solutions are provided in the following economic activities: construction In addition, the most solutions are provided for the issue of 89 long-stay permits, a single residence and work permit, and 23 residence and work permits for the European Union Blue Card. During the same period, the Employment Agency registered short-term employment of Indian citizens up to three months as posted persons of six persons and for seasonal work of up to 90 days of seven persons. As of 8 January 2020, 44 applications for access to the labour market of Indian citizens were made in a decision-making procedure for the sectors of Indian citizens. The Employment Agency shall provide very detailed information on the type of employment and economic activity sectors in which Indian citizens are admitted to the labour market. It should be stressed that under Bulgarian law, third-country nationals working legally in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria are equal to Bulgarian citizens in terms of working conditions and payment for the respective position and no social dumping is permissible. For third-country nationals, the requirement of Council Directive 2009/50 EC of 25 May 2009 on the conditions for entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of highly qualified employment is to be at least 1,5 times higher than the average salary in the Republic of Bulgaria according to the data available for the last 12 months prior to the conclusion of the contract of employment, as is the requirement of art. 17, para. 2, p. 2 of the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u202	Thank you, dear Mrs. Nikolova. Mr. Shopov, you have the floor for a line. Colleagues, the view that we could, without prolonging the working hours that we have not done, is to hear the answers to the questions from Minister Sacheva. Therefore, I ask you all to adhere to the Rules of Procedure, not to increase time unduly. I will also ask the ministers to join in this time, which has been provided by the Rules, in order to be able to finish the second question by Minister Sacheva. Here you are, dear Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u203	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, your answer was very thorough. Thank you. You've drawn a lot of numbers. You've flooded us with data. You have referred to the Bulgarian legislation, European legislation. The answer really was management, with impartiality and clarity. The most comforting of your response is that there are not 200 workers in question, as the media reported. There are significantly fewer of them and some of them are even with the Blue Card, which is another column, and they are not included in the column "Simeonovtsi" as they are called in Bulgaria the already jumping wall foreign citizens in Bulgaria. The most disturbing part of your response is that no one has the intention to obviously, and you as Deputy Prime Minister, and in the relevant ministries to make a decisive correction in this Gastrobyterian policy, because Bulgaria is also becoming a Gastarbyterian country. If this was good for the German economy after the war, given the human losses of World War II and then the common moment, it is now an extremely wrong and fatal policy that actually does nothing but create pressure on the labour market, bring people who are not from our civilization group, people who cannot integrate. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, in Bulgaria we have hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian native Indians, where the places are occupied by Indians at the moment, current aliens from India. Yes, there is such a dispute whether ours came from India or Egypt hundreds ago, and how many hundreds or thousands of years ago it is irrelevant. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u204	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u205	The point is to make an adjustment. No one in the European Union is asking us, according to European rules, to accept these people.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u206	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u207	The question of the labor market, the wage... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u208	Finish, please, your thought!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u209	...the occupation of solving it as is the Bulgarian national interest, not being dictated by impostors, by one or another Industrial Association or a group of businessmen who enjoy one or the other or unfavorable.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u210	A hole? I won't. We continue with Mrs. Nikolova's next question by the National Representative Georgi Gokov on concrete actions and initiatives to implement the 20 principles of the European Pillar of Social Rights to support a fair and well-functioning labour market. You have the floor, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u211	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Dear Ministers! Madam Deputy Prime Minister, two years ago on 17 November 2017, means a little more than two years ago, in Gothenburg, Sweden, was declared by the institutions and leaders of the European Union a European pillar of social rights. Although there is no power of law or directive, the ladder is a political commitment, responsibility and minimum programme for Member States. It must be a starting point for employment policies at national and European level. In their new Strategic Programme 2019, the countries and Heads of Government of the European Union stated that the implementation of the Ladder was a shared political commitment and responsibility and called on both the European Union and the Member States to apply it with due respect for their respective competences. The newly elected President of the Commission Ursula von der Lyon is committed in his political guidelines to presenting an action plan for the overall implementation of the Ladder as part of the broad initiatives for an economy that works for people. In this regard, Madam Vice-President, I would like you to give me some information in your response and, as a review of the implementation of the policies of the European Pillar of Social Rights at national level, two years after it was announced by the European Union, this project was launched. Answer me the question: in these two years, what specific actions and initiatives have been taken in practice on the 20 principles of the European Pillar of Social Rights to support a fair and well-functioning labour market at national level? What financial resources are allocated to support the implementation of the Social Pillar? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u212	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Here you are, you have the floor to answer, Mrs. Nikolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u213	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, the European Pillar of Social Rights is designed as an engine for achieving a social Europe for all European citizens. It aims to strengthen the acquis in the field of social law and to provide citizens with more effective rights. It is also aimed at employment and social protection issues, as well as the adaptation of the European social model in terms of progress and challenges posed as in the social model in the 21st century. The goal of the Ladder is to contribute to social progress by supporting fair and well-functioning labour markets and social systems. As early as 2018, a working meeting with representatives of all responsible ministries, departments and social partners was initiated and a concrete analysis of the necessary actions for the implementation of the 20 principles, including resource security was prepared. During the Bulgarian Presidency of the European Union, a special conference was held in Sofia on the social dimensions of the European Union. Bulgaria participates in the work on the adoption of two legislative initiatives, Directive 2019/1158 on the balance between the professional and private life of parents and Directive 2019/1152 on transparent and predictable working conditions. The Government will take appropriate measures to transpose these directives into national legislation within the prescribed time limits. With the employment and labour market policy, Principle 4 is more directly corresponding, namely "Active support for employment', and Principle 6 "Work pay'. Most of the rights in the area of Principle 4 are not new to their implementation, but a number of actions are being implemented at national level. The provision of support for job search, training and qualification are areas of action that are regulated and their development and improvement is a continuous process. In 2018, 66 000 unemployed were included under employment measures and programmes in the "New employment" and 27 000 unemployed were included in the "Training" programme. In order to ensure the right of unemployed persons to personalised, continuous and consistent support for each unemployed person, the respective individual plan has been drawn up. In 2018 more than 74 thousand unemployed received professional guidance, 32 thousand motivational training for active behavior in the labour market, 10 individual psychological consultations, with 10 thousand was working with case manager.Education, apprentice, internship or good job offer. With regard to guaranteeing the right of young people to an education in progress, apprentice, internship or good job offer, 107 local cooperation agreements were signed in 2018. They are for the implementation of the relevant employment measures for young people who do not work, study and are not registered in the employment bureaus. In relation to the right of the long-term unemployed, the in-depth assessment, which is made in the 18th month of the unemployment period and facilitates the transition to employment, concluded nearly 90 thousand integration and employment agreements at the latest. I would not like to miss out on the role of the Human Resources Development Operational Programme, which focuses its objectives on combating unemployment among vulnerable groups in the labour market, especially young people, long-term unemployed, older people, people with low education. The preparation of the Human Resources Development Operational Programme for the new period 2021 again includes the principles of the European Pillar of Social Rights in the objectives of the Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u214	Thank you, dear Mrs. Nikolova. Mr. Gokov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u215	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Ministers! Madam Minister, I thank you for your reply, but as Mr. Shopov said, I will also say that you are strictly administrative to the answers, quoting some figures that I will, of course, examine carefully in the transcript of the tape, because there is no way for a person to think about them in two or three minutes. I could not conclude at the moment is it a lot, is it small is it done in two years according to the principles of the European Pillar for Social Rights? I want you to tell me, are you satisfied with what the government has done? I would very much like to say, by the way, because you mentioned that at the Presidency of Bulgaria of the European Union there was only one conference, I think that, as the poorest country in the European Union, the European Social Pillar and its implementation in the Eastern European countries, we had to bring it up as one of the main priorities. Others were our priorities, not bad, but this should be our policy priority next time. It has impressed me and it is clear to me that the European Pillar of Social Rights will continue to be the basis for future initiatives of the European Union and that step by step Europe will become increasingly social. Madam Minister, we must make the most of these principles and push Europe because people have lost faith that something can happen in Bulgaria. They expect and rely on pressure from Europe and on increasing the minimum wage, as is my next question, and on other social policy rules. I really hope we don't stop... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Just one last sentence. Let us not stop here with the European Pillar of Social Rights, and I am aware that my question should have been a question, not a question, because it is a very serious policy that must be developed by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u216	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. A hole, Madam Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u217	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, with regard to your addition, I would like to stress that there was no opportunity to supplement the information that is relevant to your questioning in terms of Principle 6 "Work wages" which is significant and should be highlighted in this regard and the efforts of the government and social partners to develop a mechanism for determining the minimum wage. In this regard, I would like to inform you that in 2018, Bulgaria ratified the Convention No 131 of the International Labour Organisation on the definition of minimum wage. Over the past three years, the minimum wage has increased significantly, working systematically to increase the incomes of public sector workers. The favorable economic results in the country also lead to an increase in income in the real sector. I would like to draw attention to the role of the European Funds in implementing the 20 principles of the European Pillar of Social Rights and, in particular, of the Operational Programme, as I emphasised in my reply, the Human Resources Development. The 20 basic principles for supporting the rights of European citizens are related to access to a well-functioning labour market and social assistance and inclusion. The Operational Programme shall be financed by the European Social Fund (EIF) one of the financial sources to secure the realization of the European Pillar of Social Rights. Priority axis No1 of the Operational Programme is to improve access to employment and job quality. Total investment funds in the field of labour market have the largest share in the Operational Programme. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. The framework for the new programming period will also have priority. It supports the participation of vulnerable groups in the labour market, as well as the creation of quality jobs.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u218	Thank you, dear Mrs. Nikolova. Thank you for participating in the parliamentary control. We continue with questions to Mrs. Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. It will answer a question from the National Representative Dora Yankova about the construction of the necessary infrastructure to the locality of Hadushki Polyani, Smolyan municipality. Here you are, dear Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u219	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers! Dear Minister Avramova, my question is about the construction of the necessary infrastructure to the area of Hadushki Polyani, Smolyan municipality. I asked the question about the fact that residents of the villages of Kutella, Momchilovtsi, Vievo, Sokolovtsi and Petkovo in August 2019 have deposited a petition with a request to assist in building the necessary infrastructure to the area of Hadushki Polyani. The signature is deposited with the Council of Ministers, your Ministry and the Road Infrastructure Agency. I hope you know that through the locality "Haidushki Polyani" is a road that connects two districts of Smolyanska and Plovdivska, and two municipalities of Smolyan municipality and Lucky municipality. At the moment the road is in a bad situation, but at the same time in the locality itself always over the years Plovdivchani, Asenovgrad and Haskovo people used the built infrastructure for recreation and tourism. Currently there are civil and business activity. People who want and do this, invest in tourist infrastructure and seek the municipality and the state. We know that the municipality has limited resources for such road infrastructure and it was no accident during the Tourism Act that we were looking for a dimension on the occasion of the opportunities to reveal tourist localizations and the state to be closer to these citizens so that they could develop their activity. My question in this case is this: what are the opportunities in 2020 to start building the necessary infrastructure, first of all a road, so that the area can continue to develop the tourist potential in Haydushki Polyani and, in turn, citizens can receive the deployment of their economic activity and entrepreneurship?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u220	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. You have the floor for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u221	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Yankova, according to art. 3 paragraphs 1 and 3 of the Roads Act are Republican and local, you have very good experience in local self-government and you know how the road issue is regulated. Part of the local road infrastructure is actually municipal roads. 51 municipal roads with a decision of the Council of Ministers have been established on the territory of Smolyan Municipality, as the road route to the locality of Haydushki Polyani is not part of the established municipal road network on the territory of the municipality. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, with responsibility for ensuring reliable access to the residents and visitors in the area, could at a subsequent stage analyse the intentions to achieve developed road infrastructure, but it should be borne in mind that the options for supporting the municipality are limited to helping to improve the state of the municipal road network. Given that at present the route is not a municipal road, it is within the competence of the municipal administration to take action to build the route under the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration. In the event that the municipality stated to the Ministry the intention to include the road route in the list of municipal roads, we note that a route can be included in the list under commutative implementation of the following conditions: to provide a transport link of local importance, to build the road, such as the elements of the route to meet the technical requirements for municipal road, and on the basis of art. 8 paragraphs 3 and 5 of the Roads Act, the property in which it is built, shall be public municipal property. It is necessary for the municipal administration to provide documents and information demonstrating the existence of the above conditions relating to the procedure. Information on the documents will be provided to the Municipality of Smolyan in a timely manner if it so requests. In addition, I would like to say that you, as a Member of the National Assembly, are looking for opportunities to develop this tourist site and region, I can also advise you to think about the next programming period. Operational programme "Regions in growth" will invest precisely in such sites related to a larger project that leads to the economic development of the region, and in this project can be included infrastructure, and tourist sites, both educational and social. All the elements financed by the various operational programmes can be included in a major joint project and this is the goal of the future programming period to be able to finance precisely such complex projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u222	Thank you, Mrs Avramova. A line? You have the floor, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u223	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers, Mrs. Avramova! After all, your answer is a step. I remember, as mayor of Smolyan Municipality, with Minister Gagauzov there was correspondence with the then representing director of the Regional Road Management Plagacheva for even a little bit further to create a third-class road, as these are roads between two districts, but, unfortunately, not always correspondence and information are accepted by the next and has been a long time since. Therefore, I will benefit from your answer to encourage the mayor of Smolyan and the mayor of Lucky to be active, because a travel bed has in the detailed planning plan, there are no problems with alienation of properties, it is simply necessary to walk the administrative procedure so that people can actually start and feel support that this tourist potential that has it there, especially in the villages of Kutella, Momchilovtsi, Petkovo, Slavyanovo, can feed them and they can stay. And I think we should make it possible for ten people to have, if they have a business initiative and can stay alive and manage the mountain, to feel the support of the state and the municipalities. So thank you for your answer and for your kindness in this direction.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u224	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. A hole? Let's move on. Thank you for your participation in control today, Madam Minister. We continue with a question to Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy. She will answer a question from the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Zhelyo Boychev, Violeta Jeleva and Atanas Kostadinov regarding the policy of the Ministry of Energy regarding the future of coal thermal plants in Bulgaria. You have the floor, dear Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u225	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, this question is a kind of rebuttal once again of the blatant accusations that we are a destructive opposition pursuing only narrow party interests. You will understand that this is not the case because, Madam Minister, as is known on 11 December 2019. The European Commission announced the launch of the platform for coal regions in transition. According to the European Commission, this platform is intended to assist Member States and regions in finding a response to the challenge of maintaining growth and job creation in the affected communities in carrying out the European Commission's zero-carbon energy policy, which also implies the closure of coal and coal power generation. The platform will allow for the launch of multilateral talks between stakeholders on political and financial frameworks and will cover areas such as structural transformation, including economic diversification, re-qualification, deployment of renewable energy technologies, eco-innovations and modern technologies for the production of coal energy here, I quote the European Commission's Communication. Madam Minister, as a Member State of the European Union, Bulgaria must work towards achieving the announced objectives of turning Europe into a carbon neutral continent, but clear and concrete measures must also be developed to preserve our energy security as an element of national security, to take into account the social consequences of a premature closure of our coal thermal power plants and to ensure the promotion of our economy's competitiveness. The transition to zero emission energy generation should not be at the expense of the security of our electricity system and the competitiveness of the Bulgarian economy, but the social price should be unacceptable to society. Therefore, our country must have a clear strategy for the development of the sector and clarity that, in the foreseeable future, energy, and hence the economy of the country, cannot develop without our coal energy currently providing about 40% of our electricity. In this regard, Madam Minister, our question to you is: what is the policy of the Ministry of Energy regarding the future of the coal thermal power plants in Bulgaria to ensure their continued functioning in the conditions of the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the platform? I added the last one to make it easier for you to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u226	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Madam Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u227	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Ermenkov, Mr. Kostadinov, Mrs. Zheleva, Mr. Boychev! Let me first of all agree with what Mr. Ermenkov said about energy. The sector is really very important and we have proved over the years that when it comes to energy, when it comes to important things that are related to our energy security, respectively to our national security, we are all able to find strength and join our efforts so that we can make the best and most sensible decision for Bulgaria. Because all that is happening in the sector is a policy that is not for a day, two, three or a year, these are long-term policies that concern above all our society, concern citizens, concern business and these are decisions that we should make together. It is also not a coincidence that the Energy Act clearly states how decisions are made in the field of energy. Energy is such a sector in which, in practice, state policy regarding this sector is implemented and is jointly determined by the National Assembly and the Council of Ministers. So the topic you are putting to your question is extremely important, very timely, because we are really in a situation where we need to make certain important decisions about Bulgarian energy. On the one hand, Bulgaria as a Member State of the European Union, of course, strictly follows the policies, the priorities of the European Union in the field of energy and this cannot be the case. We all know what the European Union's lasting vision and policy on energy is, what is the fight against climate change, and in fact what share in this fight is determined in practice by the Bulgaria is, of course, empathetic with all these priorities of the European Union, we strictly follow them, but on the other hand, there is a very important issue related to the country's energy security related to our resources, if you want geographically, as useful fossils, as structuring of our country's electricity system. And here already arises the question that we need to find a balance between European energy policies and our national interests, because coal plants for Bulgaria are extremely important base capacities. Forty percent of the country's electricity is guaranteed by this type of electricity producers. In winter, this percentage reaches 60. So we can't make an easy decision in this direction. Therefore, the government and I, as Minister of Energy, within the energy councils being held in the European Commission, have always stood up for the position that we say very clearly and categorically: yes, Bulgaria supports all this aspiration for the production of clean energy, for a low-carbon economy, but this transition must be smooth, must be fair and, above all, must be consistent with the national specifics of each Member State. And in this whole concept of ours, we have very clearly pointed out in the integrated plan........ and climate.. which we had to develop by the end of this year and send to the European Commission accordingly. This is a very important strategic document. It concerns the period 2020 - 2030 with a horizon up to 2050 but the objectives set in it are clearly defined by 2030. In this integrated plan our clear request, a clear position before the European Commission is that Bulgaria will use these capacities because they are extremely important for our energy security, respectively, for our national security and not least for the competitiveness of the Bulgarian economy. As far as policy is concerned, it is clearly defined, we stand firmly behind these positions in the integrated plan.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... All of this will, of course, happen and happen in strict compliance with European legislation, our national legislation on environmental protection. There can be no compromises here, because it is really about life, about people's health, and for all of us it is most important. I will not dwell in detail on everything that the government has stood up for the past three years as positions and taken action. I will only mark: in 2017, we all remember that the European Commission decided and set much higher requirements for large combustion plants that produce electricity from coal. Bulgaria, together with Poland, objected to this decision and, at the beginning of 2018, we joined Poland's case against the setting of these higher standards with regard to large combustion plants. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u228	Finish your thought, you can safely expose it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u229	Yeah. This is one of the steps, one of the measures we have taken. The second very important step, a very important measure that we have taken, is that Bulgaria applies for a capacity mechanism to the European Commission, like other Member States, because we have a very important task here. It is related to our base capacity plants to be able to apply for this capacity mechanism, thus having access to financial resources that allow them to be both competitive and to ensure market liquidity. Another very important measure is related to the TPP. This is the central of the country's electricity security system. A special working group was established in the Ministry of Energy, which identified the measures with regard to the financial and economic analysis of this plant. What we have pointed out are several basic measures. First, action should be taken to increase its participation in the capital of TPP - Maritsa - East 2 and, secondly, to take all necessary action to notify a capacity mechanism to the European Commission. Both measures are being worked on, with regard to the capital increase as early as last year, at the beginning of 2019, we have notified the European Commission. The correspondence and communication are still flowing. On the capacity mechanism on 9 January, we were at a meeting in the European Commission regarding the launch of the process of approving this capacity mechanism. Thank you very much for your attention. Mr. Chairman, thank you for taking into account your extended time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u230	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petkova. Mr. Kostadinov, you have the floor for two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u231	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! I would like to clarify what we are saying within the meaning of the regulation of the National Assembly. Where, Madam Minister, in the platform for coal industries in transition, rather in which mechanisms, priorities and measures combined with the so-called green deal, where do you see the horizons or the specific mechanisms by which we can implement, and we are obliged to do so, a sustainable transition to the new European objectives? When I say'sustainable', I mean what you said, and you said 'economic, environmental and social parameters', because this is a specific type of policy in which we need to be aware of these three parameters. Secondly, from what modern technologies that constitute the best available techniques that also implement the innovative and innovation regime, have you and your team recognised similar technologies that would be applicable and which will help both the participation in the platform and the upcoming green deal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u232	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. You have the floor, Madam Secretary, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u233	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kostadinov, the topic related to the coal transition region is on the agenda for all of us. Bulgaria's accession to this platform is a decision that we by the government believe should be taken by consensus, an informed decision must be taken by all interested parties. Here I am referring to both colleagues from the coal plants, colleagues engaged in coal mining in the country and our colleagues from the trade unions and, of course, from all of us. The platform is such a platform that enables the most affected Member States, the most affected by the transition to a low-carbon economy, the transition to clean energy, to overcome and to move more easily during this period. What we need to know is that this platform will not provide funding to build new capacities, whether in the field of green energy or in some other type of new technology. This platform is rather designed to provide information to those countries that will be most affected by such a transition, to provide opportunities for us to navigate to which funding institution, which financial mechanism to target, so that we can obtain adequate information, to be able to get an adequate analysis, an adequate strategy on how this whole process should develop in the years ahead. But in my opinion, the most important thing on this platform is that we will have access to information, we will see how other countries are looking for a solution to this problem and to this issue, which they will also be facing, Bulgaria too, and for Bulgaria I can say that we will perhaps be one of the most affected Member States of the European Union in terms of this transition. As for the subject of what technologies we would like to focus on in the framework of this transition, we are doing such an analysis. And here I will stress again that the plants that produce electricity from coal have their reserved place in the Bulgarian electricity sector, in the country's electricity system. It's not an accident. The electrical mix is so structured that each power has its exact place and purpose. Heat power plants are such a type of capacity that can be very mobile. They have an extremely important role to play. There is no other power that can provide both primary and secondary and tertiary system regulation, except that it also provides the basic base load for the needs of electricity of the population, respectively, of the industry. What we are doing by reading so far, of course, we are analyzing all possibilities for renewable energy sources, we will need to focus very seriously on using hydrogen from now on. The analysis that we have done shows that such a type of base capacity in the Bulgarian electricity system can be a possible new nuclear power and therefore steam power plants, which steam power plants open a clamp and I say that according to European policy they could have a rather transitional character, as the European Union's objective is 2050 to have zero emissions. We all know that natural gas, like the fuel component, generates emissions, and that means long-term thinking is needed. Of course, all scientific power is mobilised with regard to the Member States in this direction, and we will comply with all the achievements of science in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u234	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Ermenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u235	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, the situation with the so-called green deal and the launch of the platform for coal transition regions should not be of surprise to the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria, because it should be noted that the Commission is consistent in this policy and, even in the second half of 2017, on the basis of the requests from the Member States concerned, pilot teams were created for Slovakia, Poland and Greece in order to assist the regions of Trencin, Silesia and Western Macedonia on the basis of their specific needs. Unfortunately, Bulgaria is absent from these pilot projects, and one such participation could show us what the risks and challenges are in particular before us, but, alas, we are witnessing another missed opportunity. Perhaps if we were a party that pursues its political interests closely, and is not nationally responsible, we would sit on the sidelines and watch further the processes and look for small-timeness in an important problem. However, we realise that solving our coal energy problems in the context of the European Commission's new policy is of great importance for the overall development of our country, for its energy and, hence, national security. The economic development of the state, the functioning of the entire spectrum of social responsibilities and policies, such as education, health care, social support and services, is at risk because without a competitive economy there is no way to take funds for these policies and responsibilities. The decisions here cannot be fragmented, politically predetermined, without reaching consensus and taking legislative initiatives that are unanimous and guaranteeing the future of our country. The place of occupying these initiatives and the control for their implementation is the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria in an open dialogue between the parliamentary parties represented with the participation of all stakeholders. In this regard, as a first step in this direction on grounds of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly we submit a request for discussions on our present inquiry and the draft decision around which the project hopes to unite everyone in the name of the prosperity of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u236	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in connection with the previous inquiry, by letter No 054-00-4 of 24 January 2020, submitted today, at 13.41 p.m., there was a request for a debate on questioning, No 054-05-1 of 15 January 2020, and the draft decision on the questioning by the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Zhelyo Boychev, Violeta Jelev and Atanas Kostadinov, to the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on the policy of the Ministry of Energy regarding the future of coal thermal power plants in Bulgaria. The proposal and the draft decision are signed by 64 MPs. The requirement of art. 105, para. 1 of the Members of Parliament, more than one-fifth of the Members of the National Assembly, to make a proposal to hold a debate on the questioning. On the basis of art. 105, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure and Procedure of the National Assembly, I schedule the debates on the questioning and voting of the draft decision for the next meeting, designated for parliamentary control. Madam Minister, thank you for your participation in control today. We continue with questions to Ms. Denitsa Sacheva, Minister of Labour and Social Policy. She will answer a question from the National Representative Violeta Zheleva concerning the application of a reduction rate in the calculation of the pension of the persons born after 31 December 1959. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u237	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! In 2021, part of the first pensioners born after 1960 whose pensions are to be generated from two different pillars - one part of the private, one part of the state - will acquire the right to retirement for insurance service and age. It sounds ridiculous, but they'll probably find that two pensions can be less than one. The reduction in the pension that the NSI will apply to those who have not transferred their funds to the NSI will be around 20%. This is the ratio between the contribution to the funds and the contribution to the NSI at the moment, but this ratio has not been this in all the years of retirement insurance. It is extremely unfair to take this reduction factor mechanically for all people, because not everyone has the same insurance history. It must be reflected more fairly. What do I mean? Nearly half of their entire insurance service, those born after 1960 paid 100% of their insurance to the NSI. Only since 2007, they have imported 20% less into the state fund than those born before that date at the expense of the private pension fund. Thus there is no balance between those born before 1960 and those then. On the contrary, those born after 1960 are demonstrably punished and should receive the so-called second pension. And I ask: if tomorrow the government decides that this contribution will be divided equally, not as it has so far, what does it mean that you can decide tomorrow that you will take 50% reduction from the formed pension? Mr. Chairman, allow me to extend the time, because the subject is important to a large part of the pensioners and I would like to add an example.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u238	You'll be able to make an extra line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u239	Just a second. A woman who is due to retire in 2021 with an internship, for example: 43 years, 24 years, she has paid 100% insurance to the NSI, only 5 years, 94% to the NSI, and 14 years to 80%. And you will now take for the entire 20% insurance service, which is extremely unfair. Then I'll continue in the line. In this regard, I would also like to address the question: are there and are there options for this reduction to be made so as to be consistent with the individual insurance history of each pensioner? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u240	Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva. Dear Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u241	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Jeleva, first of all, I would like to start there with this 20%, because they are not a universal percentage, there is an individual coefficient for everyone. It's very important to know, because we're going to put some 20% in people's minds again, and then we're going to wonder how to get them not to think in that direction. The individual coefficient to be used to determine the amount of pension paid by State social security for persons born from 1 January 1960 shall be reduced in a manner defined in the Social Security Code. As you know, there is an old and so-called new methodology from 1 January 2019 and, in the first case, the individual coefficient is reduced by an average weighted ratio representing a ratio between the amounts of social contributions for a universal pension fund and the Fund for a third category of work for persons born before 1 January 1960. In the new methodology, the individual coefficient shall be reduced by the insurance income for each month during which the person is insured in a universal pension fund, by the income determined on the basis of the ratio for the corresponding month on the amount of the social contribution for the universal pension fund and the amount of the contribution for the Fund for the third category of work for those born before 1 January 1960. In other words, the amounts of pensions for employment from state social security are not reduced by a fixed percentage, but are determined by individual coefficients, which are calculated by the insurance income on which the social security contributions have been imported. Due to the individual nature of these amounts involved in determining the amount of pensions for employment, the reduction for each pensioner is therefore different. It is important to note that in 2015 it was given an opportunity for persons who do not wish to be provided in a universal pension fund to choose to change their insurance from a universal pension fund only in the Fund For those who have made this choice, the opportunity to resume their provision in a universal fund is also provided, but not earlier than the expiry of one year of the choice, i.e. the possibility of choosing insurance can be exercised repeatedly, subject to the requirements laid down in the law. In such cases, it is explicitly provided that the insurance income from which the individual coefficient of the person is calculated is not reduced when, at the date on which the pension award order was issued, it chose to be provided only in the Fund. Where, at the date of the granting of the pension order, it resumed its provision in a universal pension fund but changed its choice of insurance, the insurance income was not reduced for the months in which it was not provided in a universal pension fund and the accumulated funds from its individual account were transferred to the State Fund to ensure the sustainability of the state pension system. Finally, I would like to inform you that the proposals that will lead to a reduction in the so-called reduction in pension from the first pillar of pension insurance are repeatedly discussed at different levels and in different formats, but unfortunately, the correct solution has not yet been found to meet all expectations. I think that certainly what we could all do and use the time is to inform as many people as possible about the current opportunities given in the Social Security Code, because otherwise we will enter into a spiral, in which we will always have people who will not have understood what rights they have, and we will always have to look for such crisis solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u242	Thank you, Madam Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear Mrs. Sacheva! I knew that in your response you would begin by quoting the formula for the individual coefficient. I didn't want to do it in detail in asking my question, because it will be a little more difficult for citizens to understand exactly what I want to ask. I can track down the entire history of all the amendments to the Social Security Code since 2002, 2005 and 2017, but this will not benefit citizens. You said there was no such methodology yet. I will not concern here the issue of the mechanism for the payment of the second pension, but what will happen to those people who can take advantage of the possibility of early retirement? Yes, 2021 will be the first cohorts, but what do we do with those who have the opportunity to retire early? You're also saying it won't affect. No, it's not like that. At the end of the previous year, former Minister Biser Petkov had said that it would most likely happen so that the second pension would be less satisfactory for the pensioners and so on. The subject sort of went quiet. At the moment, you in the blitzcontrol said that there would be working groups, that you still think of a mechanism. I believe that rather now this is happening.. we are delaying or there may be such an option to postpone because 2021 elections are coming. It's a huge problem, and then it can explode. That's why it's more like kicking the ball to me until 2021, but social problems aren't solved by delaying, and you already very well understood it. So I would like to say definitely, you suggested that there was such a possibility that the pension could be reduced because it wasn't fair. I say again and I ask you the question: why not think of a mechanism so that the reduction is relative to the years in which people have paid only in the universal pension fund? I really hope that you will do everything possible for thousands of pensioners not to be harmed, because for me, this is more like harming, taking part of the people's pension, who don't get fair pension payments anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u244	Thank you. Madam Minister, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u245	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Jeleva, you know that there is a bill prepared to amend and supplement the Social Security Code. It is currently still at the stage of inter-agency discussion. We expect to receive his impact assessment so that we can publish it and comment on all the different options. You know, we're looking for a balance that needs to be connected and that we can afford all the decisions we make, because we have to make so that we don't make a decision that we won't be able to secure financially on the one hand. On the other hand, however, we must realize that finding balance in this system, in which we constantly have people who enter and have to come out of it under different conditions, puts other groups in adverse conditions, respectively, if we do something that is a privilege only for a particular category of persons. That's why I said finding the balance and fair solutions to satisfy everyone is difficult, but I strongly reject the fact that the ball is beating. On the contrary, our desire is to be able to come up with a solution as soon as possible within the next month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u246	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question to Minister Sacheva is from the National Representative Georgi Gokov on the proposal of the European Commission to introduce a mandatory minimum wage for the entire European Union, readiness and position of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. You have the floor, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u247	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, the question won't surprise you. It is about introducing a European minimum wage. The idea of such a minimum wage in Europe dates back to 1992. It has many supporters and at the same time has many opponents. The fact that so far this idea has not been realized shows that despite the good intentions, the obstacles are serious and so far..................................................................................... At the beginning of the current European Parliament's mandate, this issue was again placed on the table. The European Commission has committed itself to proposing the introduction of a minimum wage in Europe, and the newly elected President Ursula von der Lyon promised that a legal instrument would be proposed in the first hundred days of the mandate to ensure a fair minimum wage for all workers in the Union. As a step in the process of introducing this single European minimum wage, the European Commission has now postponed the introduction of this salary for the whole of the European Union in order to clarify the proposal and to agree such rules and conditions as to allow workers to support themselves from their work and to ensure that there will be no poor workers in the Member States. The immediate aim of the postponement is to conduct the necessary consultations between the members of the European Commission and the governments with trade unions, employers and civil society, respectively, before the final proposal is formed. There will be consultations to ensure a decent way of life for people. Many questions follow in this direction: has the public discussion started on the idea of introducing a mandatory minimum wage for the entire European Union in Bulgaria with trade unions, employers and, above all, I pay attention to civil society? What is the position that the state will maintain and defend in the consultations and in the follow-up to the adoption of the proposal? And the most important issue in this regard, Madam Minister: is the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy ready to discuss this topic and what is the position you will maintain and defend? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u248	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u249	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, one of the expected priority legislative initiatives of the new European Commission is related to ensuring a fair and adequate minimum wage, according to Principle 6 of the European Pillar of Social Rights. The expectations are that in the summer or early autumn of 2020, such an initiative will be adopted and consultations will be held before it, under the Lisbon Treaty with national and European Parliament, with the social partners and with the civil sector. The content of the initiative may cover three main issues: coverage of the minimum wage necessarily defined by the law or on the basis of collective bargaining; adequacy of the minimum salary necessarily determined by the law or on the basis of collective bargaining; transparency and predictability of the mechanism of determining the compulsory minimum wage. The European Commission is expected to make a choice between a proposal for a directive or a recommendation from the Council, depending on the ambition, procedures and expected controversial debates by the Member States. This is expected to happen within six weeks. On 14 January this year, the Commission launched a first phase of consultation, so that once the proposal is presented either for a directive or for a recommendation, we will be able to start consultations here. Taking into account the communication from the European Commission, a strong social Europe and fair transitions and following closely the development of the European debate, we can conclude that the progress made between the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the representatives of the national representative organisations of employers, workers and employees follows a very close logic to the one presented by the European Commission. The initiative is for a framework document to take into account the national peculiarities and traditions of the Member States, with 60% of the country's median salary being discussed for a fair proposal. As you know, in Bulgaria currently the minimum wage is over 60% of the median salary. In comparison, the minimum wage in Denmark and Italy is nearly 80%, in other countries minimum wages vary between 40 and 60%. Bulgaria's case is similar to that of France and Portugal, so the debates at Member State level regarding the future initiative are still diverse, but we hope that within six months it will become clear what are the latest proposals regarding this directive or recommendation. Again, I say that at the moment the policy that leads the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is in line with what is being proposed, and when we already have the opportunity to see the final texts, our actions will be the result of a serious analysis and consultations with all the stakeholders that you have listed and in line with international standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u250	Thank you. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u251	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. I understand that you have to answer questions about policies that have been followed for many years that you have not had the opportunity to influence. I mean the minimum wage in Bulgaria. I say this because I have, since I have witnessed, from my political power, from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria, have proposed that during the adoption of the budgets, such a mechanism be developed to determine the minimum wage to be fair, and it is precisely what you mentioned and what is recommended by the International Labour Organisation and, although there is still time for consultations where the European Commission is going to recommend to the member states to 60% of the average wage. I'll call it simpler, you said exactly what salary, but, let's say, the average salary. For me, the more important question is why in Bulgaria we are very excited about this question - whether Europe will set a minimum wage. This is because the Bulgarian sees only salvation in this "from Europe" someone to tell him what to do and almost raise his income. This is because in Bulgaria, 400,000 workers work on the minimum wage, and nearly a quarter of the workforce, that is between 600 and 800,000 people, can be defined as working poor. You know what that concept involves. I'm not going to clarify the concept now. Either way, we expect Europe to save us. I think there would be no tension between trade unions and employers in determining the minimum wage that exists now if we had made this mechanism much earlier. It's a serious matter. I thank you for your answer. I hope that we will really get a solution to this issue, which will put an end to the concept, or at least to a huge extent, of the poor workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u252	Would you like a douche bag? Here you are, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u253	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, I take only to pay attention to two things. First of all, we talked about 60% of the median salary. The median salary is the salary of the person in the middle of the wage distribution, not the average salary. In Bulgaria, for the period after our accession to the European Union, the median salary is traditionally lower than the average salary. The median salary is the salary value of the employee occupying the middle of the population of employed persons arranged upward in salary size and it is not largely influenced by the very high or very low salary values. Let's say in numbers because I currently do not have the data for 2019, but for 2018, the median salary is 795 BGN, and in fact the minimum wage in Bulgaria is much higher than those 60% because it is 510 BGN and not 490 BGN, for example, as it should be, i.e. what Bulgaria is doing at the moment is more favorable in practice for our citizens. And the other thing I would like to draw attention to is that we cannot talk about the same minimum wage for the entire European Union could increase the well-being of Bulgarian citizens because there is no such dependence on the levelling. This could seriously reduce the competitiveness of Eastern Europe and in this sense Bulgaria will not have only positives from such a decision. I therefore told you that when we see the final texts, we will make the necessary discussions and discussions, which will, of course, include all representatives of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-24.u254	Thank you, dear Minister. Thank you for participating in parliamentary control today. Honourable Members, the next regular plenary session shall be on 29 January 2020 at 9.00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
