ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, I will present to your attention a draft work programme for the National Assembly 11 "1." Draft Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs 2020. The European Affairs and Control Committee of the European Funds is the importer on 5 March 2020. 2. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Agency Intelligence. Importers are Dimitar Lazarov, Plamen Nunev, Krasimir Tsipov and Valentin Kasabov on 20 February 2020. 3. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Offering of Securities. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 29 November 2019. Adopted in first vote on 16 January 2020. 4. Second vote on the Draft Law amending the Law on the Administrative Regulation of Production and Trade in Optical Discs, Matrixs and other media containing objects of copyright and related rights. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 20 January 2020. Adopted in first vote on 12 February 2020. Point 1 for Thursday, 12 March 2020 5. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities. Importers are Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs on 27 February 2020. Point 2 for Thursday, 12 March 2020 6. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Public Order in the conduct of sporting events. Importers are Slavcho Atanasov, Manoil Manev and Stefan Apostolov on 7 February 2020. Adopted in the first vote on 26 February 2020. Point 3 for Thursday 12 March 2020 7. Choice of Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. The selection procedure is in accordance with rules adopted by a decision of the National Assembly of 19 February 2020. Point 1 for Friday 13 March 2020 8. Parliamentary control comprising: 8.1. Debates on questions from the MPs Georgi Gokov, Dragomir Stoinev and Vesela Lecheva to the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mariana Nikolova on the policy of the Bulgarian government to guarantee the labour rights of Bulgarian workers and employees in the context of the start-up trilateral talks aimed at negotiating measures for reforms in key areas. 8.2. Answers to questions and Please vote on the so proposed programme. They voted 185 MPs: 144, against 1, abstention 40. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, a proposal has been made on the basis of art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. People's Representative Georgi Gokov from BSP for Bulgaria is proposing on behalf of the parliamentary group as a point in the National Assembly's Programme for the period 11 March 2020 to enter the Old People's Bill, No 954-01-73, on 18 September 2019. He was introduced by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Mr. Gokov, will you introduce us to your reasons?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! In accordance with art. 53, para. 3 of our Rules of Procedure I have made a written proposal to include the draft law on elderly people in the weekly Programme of the National Assembly. Therefore, I take the floor to motivate this proposal and to persuade you, the honourable Members of the National Assembly, to support it. The bill was submitted by a group of MPs on 18 September 2019. 15 opinions on it are presented by ministries, agencies and social partners, including the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Finance, Health and so on. He's been examined in five of the six committees he's been assigned to. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u3	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u4	Including the leading Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, there are no formal obstacles to examining the Old People's Law Project. Why is it important for this bill to enter into the weekly Programme of the National Assembly? Because according to data from the United Nations' latest analysis of global demographic change, Bulgaria ranks sixth in the world in an ageing population. The elderly people over 65 years of age in Bulgaria are 20.7% of the total population of the country. According to Eurostat research, we are fifth on this indicator in the European Union. From there it becomes clear that the largest share of people in our country, who are at a working age from 15 to 64 years old. They are 65.2% of the population in Bulgaria and the children up to 14 years of age are 14.1%. This is part of our country's serious demographic problem, and the trend is increasing the share of elderly people. This makes it difficult for economic growth and improvement of well-being. Management measures aimed at reducing negative effects do not affect the essence of the problem. Therefore, along with programmes and priority funds to reduce the consequences of the demographic catastrophe, to increase birth rates, to reduce youth migration and to create regulatory, institutional capacity to implement modern and migratory policies focused on the needs of Bulgarian business, it is necessary to state an attitude towards the growing part of the population of the elderly. Care for them should be stimulated by building attitude and caring for them. In this direction, much can be achieved by means of an adequate law. Without claiming that our proposal for such a law is perfect, it can serve as a start for settling public relations and conducting a public policy in support of elderly people, taking first steps towards ensuring conditions and standards for a full active life and equal participation in public life. Now, I appeal for support, the Old People's Bill to enter as a point in our weekly program, in an appropriate place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u5	Yes, you will then propose, Mr. Gokov. Thank you. Colleagues, I am voting on Mr. Gokov's proposal for the first vote on the Old People's Bill to enter the National Assembly's Work Programme this week. Vote 182 MPs: 80 against 15, abstention 87. The offer is not accepted. Draft and draft resolutions from 3 March 2020 to 10 March 2020: Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Structure of the Area. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is the importer. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Biodiversity Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Environment and Water is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds, the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, the Committee on Monitoring Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling. A bill to supplement the Law on excises and tax warehouses. The importer is Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. Proposal for discussions on questions, No 054 05 13, from 26 February 2020 by the MPs Georgi Gokov, Dragomir Stoinev and Vesela Lecheva to the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Ms. Mariana Nikolova on the policy of the Bulgarian government to guarantee the labour rights of Bulgarian workers and employees in the context of the start of the tripartite talks aimed at negotiating measures for reforms in key areas. The importer is Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Draft Decision on a change in the composition of the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. The importer is Valentin Kasabov and Honest Vesselinoff. Draft decision on a change in the composition of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. The importer is Valentin Kasabov and Honest Vesselinoff. A bill to supplement the Law on the Bulgarian Red Cross. The importer is Alexander Nenkov and Iskren Veselinov. It is allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Health, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Communication: The National Statistical Institute has received information on: producer price indices on the domestic and international markets in industry, January 2020; business conjuncture in February 2020; gross domestic product in the fourth quarter of 2019 and 2019; preliminary data; labour productivity, employed persons and time spent for the fourth quarter of 2019; turnover indices in the Section of Retail trade, excluding car and motorcycle trading in January 2020; indexes of industrial production in January 2020; indexes of construction production in January 2020. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Colleagues, we are going to start work on the Programme on the first point: PROJECT OF THE ANNUAL WORKING PROGRAMME OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION FOR THE QUESTIONS OF THE EUROPEAN UNION 2020 The Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds is the importer on 5 March 2020. The report will introduce us to Mr. Stoinev. Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madam President! ♪ I can't believe on the draft Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs 2020. At its regular meeting held on 4 March 2020, the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds on the basis of art. Chapter 11 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly discussed and adopted the draft Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs for 2020. The draft Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs has been developed in accordance with the priorities set out in the Annual Programme for the Participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union Decision-making process in 2020, adopted by Decision No 46 of the Council of Ministers of 2020; the European Commission Work Programme for 2020, published on 29 January 2020, and the proposals made by the Permanent Parliamentary Committees of the National Assembly. In accordance with art. 118, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly The annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the decision-making process of the European Union was submitted to the National Assembly by the Council of Ministers on 29 January 2020. Within the three-week period laid down in art. 118, para. 2, it is examined by all the permanent parliamentary committees. According to bets in art. 118, para. The Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds should draw up a draft annual work programme of the National Assembly on European Union issues for 2020 by 4 March 2020. In its 2020 work programme, the European Commission proposes 43 new objectives and 44 initiatives under the Regulatory Framework's Fitness and Effectiveness Programme (REFIT) in line with the six ambitious objectives set out in the political guidelines of President Ursula von der Leien for the period 2019 - 2024, namely: 1. European Green Deal. 2. Economics in the interests of the people. 3. Prepped for the digital era of Europe. 4. Keeping our European way of life. 5. A stronger Europe on the world stage. 6. A new impetus for European democracy. The work programme of the European Commission was presented by Mr. Tsvetan Kulanov, acting Head of the Representation of the European Commission in Bulgaria. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Petya Vasileva, Director of the Directorate of the European Union Coordination of the Administration of the Council of Ministers, and Mr. Vladimir Nedyalkov, State Expert in the same Directorate, who presented the Annual Programme for the Participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the Decision-making process of the European Union. Taking into account the European Commission's agenda and the programme of the Triple Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2020, Bulgaria plans to focus its efforts on several high priority areas for the country: - The European Green Deal. - Multiannual financial framework 2021 - 2027 - Joining the Schengen area. - Enlargement of the European Union. - European Energy Union. - Promoting economic growth and employment. - Solid migration management. - A single European digital market. The following considerations were also taken into account in the preparation of the draft Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs for 2020: - Checks for compliance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality of the European legislative proposals included in the Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union issues for 2020 will be carried out by actively exercising the powers of the National Assembly under Protocol No 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. - The adoption of the new work programme does not interrupt the monitoring and control process of the draft acts of the institutions of the European Union included in the previous annual work programmes of the National Assembly on matters of the European Union which have not been examined or finally adopted. - The Annual Work Programme shall prioritise drafts of acts of a legislative nature and enable the National Assembly to effectively monitor the government's participation in the European agenda, as well as to participate in political dialogue with the European institutions. - If necessary to the current work programme, the committees of the National Assembly have the opportunity to examine other documents of the European institutions - messages, reports, white and green books and others outside the current work programme. - It should be borne in mind that in relation to the powers of the national parliaments under art. 6 of Protocol No 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union in the draft annual work programme of the National Assembly on European Union issues for 2020 does not include proposals made by Standing Committees to include legislative initiatives in which the period laid down in Protocol No 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union has expired or will expire before the adoption of the Annual Work Programme of the National Assembly on European Union matters for 2020. After the discussion the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds took place on the basis of art. 118, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly propose unanimously that the National Assembly adopt the following decision for adoption of the Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs for 2020: DECISION adopting the Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs 2020. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 105, para. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 118, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Adopt the following Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs (2020)): ANNUAL WORK PROGRAM OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON EUROPEAN UNION'S QUESTIONS2020 The National Assembly shall be chaired by: - the contribution of national parliaments to the good functioning of the Union, as established in art. 12 of the Treaty on European Union and their role in formulating European policies; - respect for the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality in the European legislative process; - the priorities set out in the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the decision-making process of the European Union in 2020; - the need to strengthen the European Union's global role as a defender of democratic values and human rights, of sustainable social and environmental development Decided to exercise his powers under art. 105, para. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria by subjecting the procedure of parliamentary supervision and control of Chapter 11 of Art. Art. 118 to art. 121 including the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the following draft acts of the European institutions: In the thematic area of the European Green Pact Legislative initiatives 1. Review of the Non-financial Information Disclosure Directive. 2. European climate legislation, which will set the objective of climate neutrality by 2050. 3. Eighth Environment Action Programme. Non-legal initiatives 4. Climate target values plan by 2030 5. A new EU strategy to adapt to climate change. 6. Renewed sustainable funding strategy. 7. Strategy from the farm to the table. 8. Production of renewable energy at sea. 9. A new action plan for the circular economy. 10. European Union Biodiversity Strategy by 2030 11. A new EU strategy for forests. In the thematic area of Europe prepared for the digital age Legislative initiatives 12. Review of the Networks and Information Systems Security Directive (Mission Directive). Non-legal initiatives 13. It's a strategy for industry. 14. Strategy for small and medium-sized enterprises. 15. A digital education action plan. 16. A white book on artificial intelligence. 17. Communication on research and innovation missions carried out under the Horizon Europe programme. REFIT Initiatives, which means a Regulatory Framework Fitness and Effectiveness Programme 18. Review of the Recommendation on the digitalisation and provision of cultural material through the Internet, as well as the storage of digital material. In the thematic area of the Economics in the interests of the people Non-legal initiatives 19. Strengthening the guarantee scheme for youth. 20. Fair minimum salaries for workers in the European Union. In a thematic area, a stronger Europe on the world stage Non-legal initiatives 21. Improving the accession process - A reliable prospect for the accession of the Western Balkans to the European Union. 22. Strengthening our commitment to the Western Balkans The Commission's contribution to the summit between the European Union and the Western Balkans. In the thematic area of the European way of life - Strengthening the European way of life Legislative initiatives 23. A new pact on migration and asylum and accompanying legislative proposals. 24. Proposal for additional measures relating to the protection of critical infrastructure. 25. Strengthening Europol's mandate. Non-legal initiatives 26. A new EU strategy for the Union of Security. 27. A new EU strategy to eliminate human trafficking. 28. A strategy of the European Union for a more effective fight against sexual violence against children. In the thematic area, a new impetus for European democracy Non-legal initiatives 29. Preparation of the Conference on the Future of Europe. 30. Annual report for 2020 on the rule of law. 31. A new strategy for the implementation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights. 32. A European Union strategy for victims' rights. 33. Report on the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation (ARC). 34. In line with relevant Union law enforcement provisions in terms of data protection. In the thematic area.. Relations between the European Union and the United Kingdom 35. Initiatives related to the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. I'm opening the debate. Dear Members of Parliament, you have the floor for speeches. You have the floor, dear Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u8	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take note of that part of the report that concerns the energy dimensions of the Green Deal. What is written in the Report, in general everything is good, but it is the section "If you are hungry, you should eat, in the sense of good wishes, which somehow do not emerge those problems, which are specific to the Bulgarian economy and to the Bulgarian energy. Because when we are talking about sustainable economic development, which is recorded in the Report, we should somehow remember that sustainable development is said several times and I will repeat it again, there are three dimensions. The first dimension is indeed economic growth. The second dimension is to achieve this economic growth by preserving or even improving the environment, so that future generations can enjoy, if not this, at least a better environment. There is also a third dimension, which states that all these two objectives must be achieved at a socially bearable price. If any of these three pillars in sustainable development are missing, somehow this development is no longer sustainable, but begins to tilt in one of the directions -- or economic development -- without having any environmental conservation measures -- things that we see in countries outside the European Union, or making efforts for a very clean environment, but with funds that are unbearable for people, and at the risk of having the cleanest environment tomorrow, but not having anyone living in it. For this reason, I believe that the government and those who will have talks in the future in the European Commission should pay attention to these facts. Moreover, the European Union's ambition to achieve clean energy by 2050, when there will be no carbon emissions, is somehow confronted with global realities. Currently, there are countries in the world that pollute the environment, put Bulgarian and European companies at risk of making what is called economic migration and going to produce there because they will not need to make such investments. It is good that these ambitions of the European Union are somehow bound by measures to protect the environment on a global scale, otherwise we risk the European Union remaining the only player with serious intentions of protecting the environment, but with all the consequences, including social ones that can follow from this thing. I draw attention to the government when these talks will be held, when decisions will be adopted, let us be so good as to introduce us in advance to the directives and regulations that are to be adopted so that we can discuss them in Parliament at the stage of their preparation and to express our opinion rather than to be the ones who, once regulations and directives are adopted, should be those who will only seal their validity in Bulgaria. By the way, this is the normal way of functioning the European Union. Unfortunately, it is not the normal way of functioning in Bulgarian legislation. One more thing I'd like to pay attention to. When we talk about a Green deal, it is good to talk about a Green deal with energy poverty measures and social measures that need to be taken in Bulgaria and to insist on a fair distribution of finances to the European Union. If this is not achieved, if we, as always, remain in the queue of the distribution of financial resources, we risk ruining our economic development and paying a price too high for the Green deal, which will be unbearable for the Bulgarian people. Once again, I call on the government to have reasonable negotiations, to adhere to Parliament's decisions and to use parliament in future negotiations, such as that pillar on which it can rely, and to Parliament's decisions that could give it the right direction when it takes decisions and signs the relevant documents in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Are there any lines? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. Here you are, Mrs. Mehmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. President of the National Assembly, honourable Members! The annual programme sets out the issues on the European agenda, which are of priority importance to our country during the current year, and formulates the national interest on each of them. It ensures the coordination and effective participation of Bulgaria at all levels in the decision-making process of the European Union and the consistent implementation of European policies. The draft Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs for 2020 was developed in accordance with the priorities set out in the Annual Programme for the Participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union Decision-making process in 2020, adopted by Decision No 46 of the Council of Ministers, the European Commission Work Programme for 2020 and the proposals made by the Permanent Parliamentary Committees of the National Assembly. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms is always expressing its support on the topics related to the European Union and the Euro-Atlantic orientation of Bulgaria. We have always defended the national interests of the country and have fought to resist and guarantee the fundamental rights of citizens and the values of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the lack of some of the topics that are not only present in the European Commission's Work Programme but also leading. Some key directions are missing in the work of the European Union "The topic of digitalisation and artificial intelligence," which is a priority for the European Union, are expected to present the White Paper on Artificial Intelligence and the database strategy is scattered in several places in the document with fragmented declarations of principle support. Our country's position is missing if we will work on this subject, if we will take part in the decision-making process. The document shows nostalgia for a decision of the health initiatives of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Since then, time has passed, and if our country does not understand that deep, qualitative and long-term changes are taking place in the European Union, we will remain irreversible. In the proposed document there is not a word for the Conference on the Future of Europe, the topic is only marked, and this is a project which is expected to involve European citizens and institutions over the next two years. Stability is a priority, but staying stable in one place, while all member states of the European Union are rushing forward for a more prosperous, democratic, nature-friendly and guaranteeing a high quality of life for their citizens Europe is acceptable. In the proposed document, the Green Pact is presented as communication to the European Commission and detailed the expected accompanying documents. Simplifying the requirements of the New Strategy for the Development of the European Union, which is the Green Pact, to the requirement in the field of energy and biodiversity is inadequate for high ambitions in all economic sectors. There is no view of the link between the Green Pact and regional policy, education, the circular economy, there is no mention of transition regions and the necessary actions related thereto, the investment plan for a sustainable Europe and the transitional mechanism and plan is completely absent. For cohesion policy and the Multiannual Financial Framework. There is no link between the vision of cohesion policy of the Bulgarian Government and the current directions of the Green Pact and the connection with a number of horizontal programmes, such as Horizon Europe, the Connecting Facility, the Defence and Investment Fund through investment in the European Union. The repetition of the programming period from the previous period 2014 - 2020 is impossible. A new approach, self-confidence and clear awareness is needed that only good coordination and synergies between national and horizontal, subsidised or with financial instruments can lead to a good result. Dear colleagues, during the year the Council of Ministers is obliged to present all the legislative initiatives described in the Annual Work Programme for the Year, framework positions in the National Assembly. Unfortunately, there wasn't a single one of these last year. We from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support the presented draft annual work programme of the National Assembly on European Union issues for 2020 with the belief that this year we will be presented with framework positions in these legislative initiatives in the Programme, given the importance of the topics for the future development of the European Union, the Member States and the lives of European citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u11	Thank you, dear Mrs. Mehmedova. Are there lines? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. Statements? I don't see any speeches. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. The draft decision for adoption of the Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union issues for 2020 was presented by the MP Dragomir Stoinev. I shall put to the vote the draft decision presented to you. Vote 126 MPs: 124 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. The second point of the Work Programme is: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LEGISLATION LAW AND THE COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE AGENCEMENT. The representatives of the National Assembly are Dimitar Lazarov, Plamen Nunev, Krasimir Tzipov and Valentin Kasabov. You have the floor for procedure, dear Mr. Panchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I propose an extension with one week of the review period between the first and second reading of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Management of Territories, No 054-01-6, from 23 January 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u13	A joint project. We're talking about the joint project. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 97 MPs: 92 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Report on the Commission's first vote on control of the security services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. You have the floor to present the report, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u14	♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Agency Act on Intelligence, No 054-01-15, submitted by Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs on 20 February 2020. At a meeting held on 5 March 2020, the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications examined the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the State Agency of Intelligence, No 054-01-15, submitted by Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs on 20 February 2020. The meeting was attended by Mr. Atanas Atanasov, Chairman of the State Agency of Intelligence, Mr. Dimitar Georgiev, Chairman of the State Agency of National Security, Colonel Velko Atanasov, Acting Director of the Ministry of Military Information, Mr. Ivan Geshev, Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mr. Georgi Alexandrov, Deputy Director of the Ministry of Customs, and Mr. Georgi Arabadzhiev, Deputy Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Dimitar Lazarov. The proposed bill complements the Agency's intelligence activities regarding hybrid attacks and asymmetric risks and threats, as well as the organisation and implementation of its own communications for intelligence purposes and the exchange of information with its structures. The review and further development of provisions on: data relating to the cover of staff and persons collaborating with the Agency; termination of service with the inspector; access to classified information; declaration of incompatibility, property and interests; professional discipline, leave, suspension and termination of service. Transitional and final provisions provide for amendments and additions to other laws aimed at clarifying existing provisions and establishing additional mechanisms for the implementation of activities by competent authorities and security services. The proposed addition to the Law on the State Agency "National Security" establishes the need of the Agency's authorities to establish the identity of persons to whom specific actions are taken in the Law. The Anti-Terrorism Act proposes to establish an inter-agency counter-terrorism unit involving authorities and structures of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Interior, the State Agency of National Security, the State Agency of Intelligence, the Ministry of Defence and Customs at the Ministry of Finance. The proposal is motivated by the need for closer operational interaction in planning and implementing measures to prevent terrorist attacks in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria in cases involving several institutions. The interdepartmental unit shall not duplicate activities of existing counterterrorism bodies and shall not receive any additional powers. The proposed addition to the Road Traffic Act concerns the use of a special road traffic regime by certain structures of the State Intelligence Agency and of the Military Information Service in order to ensure the security of the transport of operational consignments containing intelligence information, when or on the occasion of providing physical protection for officers or collaborators of the intelligence services, as well as in the transport, escort and security of official high-level intelligence officials from the intelligence communities of partner countries through cooperation and operational activities. The proposed amendment and addition to the Law on Electronic Communications shall regulate the competent court according to the subject-matter of the case, outlined in the provisions of art. 411a of the Code of Criminal Procedure to deal with cases of requests for access to data under the Law. The adoption of the amendment to the Law on Counter-Terrorism, proposed in the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Draft Law, leads to the need to provide additional funds. Interested parties and the Ministry of Finance in written observations expressed their support under the Bill. Exhibition on the expected consequences of the implementation of the Law was made by Mr. Atanas Atanasov. President of the State Agency.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. People's representatives Dimitar Lazarov, Philip Popov and Plamen Nunev took part in the debates, who said that the legislative changes are timely, in line with the dynamics of the security environment and with their adoption the capacity to protect national security will be strengthened. After the discussion, the Commission with 6 votes for the Council, without a vote against the House and 1 vote abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement to the State Agency Act No 054 01-15, submitted by Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs on 20 February 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. Will there be an importer's opinion, Mr. Lazarov? [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]] It has been made clear enough, I am opening up the debates. Dear Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I listened to Mr. Lazarov's report and was impressed that lately not only by this law, but also by other laws, we see some activity from MPs to submit bills. On the one hand, good, because this might have raised the rating in some way to the National Assembly, as it had recently indeed become a rubber stamp of various controversial bills. But let's face it, in certain areas, on certain subjects, it may be necessary for the bills to pass in the stage order, i.e. to pass through the Council of Ministers, to be subject to public discussion, to be able to hear the opinions of all interested parties, which we have in this case. To remind you a few months ago, we made changes to the State Agency Act, which is extremely controversial, quite discussed in the Chamber, by the public, by the services, by all interested parties in relation to the Director of the State Agency................................................................................... We are currently seeing activity from colleagues, and from the ruling coalition, which largely creates question marks rather than answers to the future of this intelligence community, because, by digging between the lists between the texts, we can make a reasoned conclusion that in a small part of the texts of the Law changes are being made to find a place for a certain person for a particular service. The question is legitimately raised whether these changes being made at the moment are not the crucial step towards the eradication of the Military Intelligence Service and its transfer within the scope of the State Agency's Intelligence Agency? A subject which, even if it happens, must be subjected to extremely broad public discussion, at least of all those communities involved in gathering information, those who teach in this area, and all those who are interested in this debate. Makes an extremely disturbing impression that such a topic is trying to pass very quickly, on the fast track through the National Assembly, through MPs without obtaining the necessary opinions. You said, Mr. Lazarov, that there are opinions from the respective heads of departments. Do we have an opinion from the Military Intelligence Department? We don't, do we? You said, by the Attorney General. He, the D.A., basically collects intelligence in the country, obviously, because we're most likely waiting for someone to come from abroad, so we're gathering intelligence on him. You gave an opinion by the State Agency........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Our parliamentary group, honourable Members, will not support this bill precisely for these reasons that it is being done in haste again without making the necessary discussions on this subject. We do not hear the opinions of this community dealing with the collection of such information. Even in a closed session to hear, to see what the consequences of all of this will be, and especially whether there is really a need to close down the military intelligence, that is what we are interested in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Lazarov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will ask you to support the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on State Agency Intelligence. It was imported by MPs, yes, and not least can it be said to be on a fast track. It shall go to the first vote, with a time limit for proposals between the first and second votes respectively to the Members of the National Assembly. It was supported in the Commission by representatives of Coalition for Bulgaria or BSP. They took part in the debate, they are familiar with the opinions of the State Agency, which is positive, and of the Ministry of Defence Military Information, which is positive, and of the Ministry of Finance, which provides in one part of the amendments the corresponding funding, both by the Ministry of Interior and by the State Agency of National Security and by the Customs Agency, I also said. When one wants to make suggestions, it would be good to prepare. There is nothing to do with this bill with the suggestions that some colleagues continue to make here. You see, it was aimed at closing the Office of Military Information. There's nothing like that in the lyrics! There's no way. Well, there are no amendments to this law that basically concern proposals from the Office itself, and also from the observations on the Office's activities in 2015, these laws were adopted and they were tabled again by MPs. In 2015 the laws were also introduced for the State Agency of Intelligence and for the security services, with the exception of the SANS. E 2013 "2014" The Council of Ministers had not tabled such amendments at the time or the previous one. It had no laws, no legal regulation, but we talked about it, talked about it, talked about it. There's no point in repeating it again, I'm just paying attention to that fact. Yes, the legislative changes in the DAR refer to the precision of the texts that they refer to the passage of the service, the responsibilities when employees are on the cover, the obligations when they are on the cover. The texts for termination shall be reviewed in accordance with the general procedure. There's really nothing to do with Military Information. I don't know how you can talk to angro like that, irresponsiblely and put pressure on the security services. Maybe that's the point? Someone simply, without getting acquainted with opinions, without being involved in the work of these laws, decides that it is better this way: to intrigue and disturb the services. Well, that's what we need right now! However, it is a matter of responsibility who is doing what, therefore, honourable Members, that I ask you to support the bill tabled. In the report I read: With the Transitional and Final Regulations other laws are changed and again, notice, not quickly, not urgently, not between first and second reading to make changes. Yeah, for the DANS, they don't currently have the authority to verify the identity of individuals. It's explicitly written if someone bothered to read the Bill. If he hasn't, say, yes, they can check an identity asking for an I.D. to enter the three names and check the identity of the person, either through witnesses or by any other means. Because until now they legally did not have this power, and when a person is called to the Office of the National Security Agency or on any other occasion, there is no legal basis to ask him for his ID card. In the Law on Electronic Communications, yes. A year and a half ago, two has already happened, the PPC's conviction is now on the Specialized Court. We are making this change only to know that the permissions for traffic data will be given by the Special Court of Justice something that was then missed to be done. It's a matter of precision. In the Road Traffic Act, maybe this is also what they have against colleagues, as far as the Ministry of Interior and DANS cars are entitled to a special mode of movement. Yes, we are also giving this opportunity to the State Intelligence Agency, and to the Military Information Service, note, and not only to the State Intelligence Agency, as someone here is trying to instill, by order determined by the directors, some cars in some hypotheses also have the opportunity to have a special mode of movement. It is also indicated in the reasons stated now and in the Report. Is that what you mind? Yes, the provisions with regard to the inspector who first introduced 2015, what powers he has, and disciplinary practice, taking into account those provisions have also been refined in the Office. I can't figure out where the ideas are born that this law was meant to be a certain person, like the Office has its principal, has its vice-directors? The order is clear, it does not change at the proposal of the Council of Ministers, by decree of the President. There's no change here. In 2015, despite the reluctance of some present in this Chamber, by submitting these bills, we decided, proposed and argued that, yes, the directors of these services, in order to have stability, must be appointed by a decree of the President. So, fellow Members, do not give in to suggestion. Please support the bill very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u19	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. - What's the line? Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Lazarov, yes, you are right, colleagues have supported this bill in the Commission, but in this House our group will not support it because we discussed carefully, in detail everything that is written inside. In this complex international environment, especially in its security amendments, Mr. Lazarov, I hope you will agree with me that it is extremely risky to make changes to such laws and to change the order and manner of work of the services. We have a situation in Turkey, we have a situation in Greece, we have a situation in the Middle East, and it is knocking on our door, and you are currently trying to make a reorganization that has a controversial result. At the very least, I am concerned that here, in the last row, I do not see the Presidents of the DANS, of the DAR, of the Military Information. Such a bill, honourable Members, is right and normal to pass in the stage order through the Council of Ministers, to go through public discussion to hear the opinions of all concerned parties in this process, because this is indeed a fast track, Mr. Lazarov. The bills that the Left has tabled have been suspended for one year on committees without consideration, including the Legal Commission, and do not enter here in the Chamber. This one was imported a week ago and is in the hall today, Mr. Lazarov. What's the rush?! There's a lot of questions. I ask why, Mr. Lazarov, answer me when we were looking at the state budget, when we were putting forward proposals to increase the budget of these services, you did not support? What happened by chance to date, so that you can raise the budget now and the Ministry of Finance doesn't mind this thing?! What happened?! Again, the changes that are not being discussed are being made are not being looked over, because we have told each other thousands of times here, from this tribune, the opinion that the proposals that are being made with Transitional and Final Provisions are the most harmful thing that this Parliament produces. It's the worst thing! The biggest nonsense and outrage are done here when transitional and final provisions are adopted in a bunch of other laws and are not discussed That's what this is about, Mr. Lazarov. Your suggestions may be useful to some extent, but I am telling you that we will not support them because they are at least controversial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Second line? I can't see. Hole, Mr. Lazarov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u22	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It is good to read the imported bills before one speaks. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] What is the moment now when it comes to the dangers of terrorism, money laundering, logistics for terrorism, I don't think it's necessary to comment on it, but at least now it needs to be suggested that, you see, this bill brings an imbalance. Interested parties!? Someone's saying it again: fast tracks, slow tracks, why don't you watch our bills, but you're watching this one?! It's kind of like kindergarten, and I don't want it to sound echoing, because the subject of security is a serious topic, and I don't want it to sound like kindergarten to be pronounced and treated. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I know that colleagues are consistent both on the bills and on the laws on money laundering measures, on measures to finance terrorism, the laws that concern security. Yes, the BSP are consistent, they vote abstention or against a question of responsibility. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria: "This is not true! "]] Dear colleagues, I think that with this bill we are really cultivating the practice at the State Agency.................................................................................... Well, some last week, for example, took the opportunity to introduce another bill for Russia, say, about Russia, but it is your right, no one can deny it to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u23	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. The way you're holding Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. President, I think it is appropriate that you make a comment to your colleague Lazarov not to be allowed here, from this tribune, to speak in a edifying tone and to make suggestions to the colleagues from the Left in how and how they should vote. At the very least, Mr. Lazarov could have done his job, Mr. Chairman, and you could have taken the attitude here to be the chairmen of the agencies that we are discussing at the moment.................................................................................... Because from this tribune, Mr. Hristov, we have listened to another mentor of Mr. Lazarov speaking from this tribune, and he ended tragically and left. [[GERB lines.]] Now don't let the same thing happen...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u25	I'll pay attention to you here!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u26	...no such outbursts here, to use a softer word, of attempts to accuse the opposition, you see that she was interfering with the work of the services. On the contrary, there is something working in this country and these are the services. There is now another attempt to stop them working. That's what you do! Nothing else. I am making a procedure for you not to put the Law to the vote at first reading until the representatives of the State Agency come to the Intelligence Agency, to the Military Information and to the SANS to hear their opinion from the stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u27	I can't do that, Mr. Ivanov. It's not in line with the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u28	Mr. Chairman, I am proposing that you invite the Presidents of the DAR, the DANS and the Military Information to come to the Chamber and give 30 minutes of rest until they arrive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u29	That's more like it. Thank you. Regarding the tone, I found nothing in Mr. Lazarov's tone. As far as the presence is concerned, the Commission did not consider that to be the case. They'll be notified, invited, but that doesn't mean I have to postpone voting on the Bill. Here you go, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u30	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Chairman, my procedure is with you in the manner of conduct, as you allow a representative from the High Tribune of the National Assembly to tell his colleagues... I did not notice in his speech respect for them because one that spoke to parliamentary groups how they had voted in the past, what they thought, how they spoke. It's their own business! Mr. Lazarov, this is not your stand! You can't tell if it was kindergarten, like kindergarten, what it looked like to you, because you just can't talk like that here!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u31	Turn to the chairman, not him.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u32	Yes, to the chairman. So what if it's to him?!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u33	Not to him, to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u34	Through the chairman and to him. [[Reply by MP Daniela Daritkova.]] Yes, through the chairman and to him. But I was calling for a completely different tone. We, the MPs of the BSP, can't speak on any bill? Or if we speak, do you have to question it that way? [[Reply by MP Daniela Daritkova.]] Mr. Chairman, I am constantly being interrupted by the leadership of the parliamentary group of GERB! You're allowing this for I don't know which way. [[Radio.]] Please, I know you're from this parliamentary group, but take some attitude, no matter how much you laugh in the back, laugh behind my back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u35	I will take the attitude, Mr. Chenchev, and note that you are currently doing me a procedure in the manner of conduct and I ask you not to deviate from this. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u36	Tell me, Comrade Lazarov! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u37	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u38	That's what we're talking about, see? That's what we're talking about! You can't even make a suggestion.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u39	Mr. Chenchev, I will apply what you suggest to me, but I will apply it to all parliamentary groups. [[Replicate from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev.]] I understand. We continue with the speeches. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) Exchange of lines between MP Ivan Chenchev and MPs from GERB.)]] This is where I can take advantage, Mr. Chenchev, of your advice to apply the Rules. Please! Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u40	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, a little bit about the meaning of the words and the meaning of the words from here. I would not like the concerns expressed by the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party on some of the bills and, at all, when it is critical to some of them, to be qualified as suggestion. We have an opinion, we have the right to express it, so it is the parliamentary tribune, and that is why we are expressing our concerns and objections. If anyone accepts this as an suggestion, it is a matter of misunderstanding of parliamentaryism in Bulgaria. [[Voices from BSP for Bulgaria.]] From now on, I just want to say that there are some disturbing things in this bill. Yes, there are things that are good, there are things that are timely, but there are also things that bother us. It bothers us at the beginning of concreteization. If I'm not mistaken, in art. 8, para. 1, where the scope of activity is expanded or is actually specified because, when it is said in this paragraph, that the State Agency.. is involved in intelligence, it includes much more generally things when inside you add asymmetric measures.....and hybrid wars.....you restrict things or specify them and create the impression that you are interfering with other services inside. Impression creates, I say. It's good to rethink these things, because that's one of the things that bothers us. It's not a suggestion, it's written, it's true. The second thing that worries us is the way in which things are regulated and things are changing on camera policy at the State Agency's intelligence agency, because, again, with this haste, the Bill was tabled on 20 February and is dealt with on 11 March, quickly passed through the Commission, it gives the impression that it is about personnel decisions, which are either already targeted or will be targeted. I say again, it's an impression, it's not an suggestion, it's a worry. The other thing I would like to mention, and this is also one of the concerns we have is, why does there may be some logic, but it does not show in the reasons or in the text of the Law the counterterrorism unit is in the DAR and it is not in the DANS? A question which could probably arise, since this is a counter-intelligence activity related to national security, and the State Agency "National Security" is the one that is empowered to carry out this activity, a question that has no answer in the Bill, there is no answer in the reasons. It is for this reason that the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party will refrain from voting on this bill. Between first and second readings, we will try to make relevant proposals that will hardly be accepted, but never mind, we are obliged to make them so that we can clear things up so that there are no concerns. The most important thing I want to say is that really the way laws are introduced on 20 February by MPs is not that they have no right to do so, on the contrary, they have a right to do so, is worrying. It's really about national security, it's about personnel decisions in one of the main national security services, it's also about creating new units, which, I think, is nice to do in the way it's done. By the way, to remind you that the Council of Ministers is the only responsibility of the Prime Minister, who, in addition to coordinating the activities, is national security, the Council of Ministers could be the importer of this bill so that it can pass in the stage order. Or, I say again, there is something that must be dealt with really quickly, and that is why we are in a hurry with these decisions. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]] No, I say again, worries. I don't make suggestions. Disturbing! That is precisely why, first of all, the way the bill has been tabled, we will not support it and, secondly, with those arguments that I have just shared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the State Agency of Intelligence, No 054 01-15, submitted by the MPs Dimitar Lazarov, Plamen Nunev, Krasimir Tsipov and Valentin Kasabov. They voted 137 MPs: for 93, against 19, abstention 25. The motion is accepted. We continue with the next item of the Work Programme: SECOND VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE PUBLIC PRESENTATION OF THE PRINCIPAL SECURITY. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Mr. Kanev, please present the Second Voting Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u42	Colleagues, I request permission in the hall under our Rule of Laws for Evgeni Stoyanov "Deputy Minister of Justice," and Lilyana Todorova "State Expert." From the Financial Supervision Commission: Maria Filipova Vice-President and Milen Milev Head of Department.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u43	Thank you. I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 107 MPs: 97 against 2, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Please invite the admitted persons to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u44	The Law on the Public Offering of Securities is amended and supplemented by the Law on the Public Offering of Securities. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 100n are made the following 1. In para. 4. (a) A new item shall be created. 5. It's five o'clock. a report on the implementation of remuneration policy; b) the current t. 5 is going to be t. 6. 2. In para. 5 the figure 3. The creation of para. 13: The registered auditor, who conducts an independent financial audit of the annual financial statement of the public company, shall make an opinion in the audit report whether a report on the implementation of the remuneration policy has been provided and whether the report complies with the requirements laid down in the Ordinance under art. 116c, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u45	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law and the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 1. They voted 106 MPs: 87, none against, abstention 19. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u46	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: At the request of the public company, foreign persons under art. 133 of the Financial Instruments Markets Act which acquired financial instruments in their own name, but at the expense of other foreign persons, provide information necessary to the public company for identification and contact with the person for whom the financial instruments have been acquired. Information shall be provided to provide all necessary conditions for shareholders to exercise their rights. (4) The information under para. 3 is required and made available through the central securities depositary where the relevant securities are registered. In the case of a chain of intermediaries, the information shall be transmitted in a timely manner between them. (5) The public company, the central depositary of securities where the relevant securities are registered and the other intermediaries which disclose the information under para. 3 shall not be liable for violating the restrictions on disclosure of information provided for by a contract or regulation. (6) The persons under para. 5 process the personal data of the shareholders received under para. 3 and 4 and under art. 115b, para. 2, identifying and establishing contact with them. (7) The persons under para. 5 keep the personal data of the shareholders received under para. 3 and 4 and under art. 115b, para. 2, for a period of one year from the knowledge that the person concerned has ceased to be a shareholder, unless another regulatory act provides for a longer period. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. Article 3 is replaced by Art. 110. (1) A public company which initiates a corporate event shall provide the central securities depositary where the relevant securities are registered: 1. the information that the company is obliged to provide to its shareholders in order to exercise its rights and which is directed to all shareholders holding shares of the class concerned; 2. a message indicating where information can be found on the company's website. 1 when published on his website. (2) The central depositary of securities where the relevant securities are registered shall send the information under para. 1, t. 1, respectively, the message under para. 1, t. 2 to the other intermediaries. (3) Intermediaries shall provide access to the information under para. 1 and to all conditions for shareholder actions relating to the exercise of its rights by means of publicly available instruments and infrastructure, including on the intermediary's website, unless otherwise agreed with the shareholder. Instruments and infrastructure shall allow the processing of instructions by a shareholder relating to the exercise of its rights by intermediaries in accordance with art. 2 paragraph 3 of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/1212 of 3 September 2018 laying down minimum requirements for the application of the provisions of Directive 2007/36/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the identification of shareholders, the transmission of information and the facilitation of the exercise of shareholder rights (OB, L 223/1 of 4 September 2018)), hereinafter referred to as the Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/1212. (4) Intermediaries shall transmit to the public company in due time and in accordance with the instructions of the shareholders the information received from them relating to the exercise of their rights relating to their own shares. (5) In the case of a chain of intermediaries, the information under para. 1, t. 1, respectively, the message under para. 1, t. 2, as well as the information under para. 4 shall be transmitted between them in due time. (6) The transmission of the information under para. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. (7) The provisions of para. 1 "6" shall not apply when the public company sends the information under para. 1, t. 1, respectively, the message under para. 1, t. 2 directly to all its shareholders or to a third party designated by the shareholder.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u47	Statements? I won't. I shall put two texts to the vote: the version proposed by the Commission for the texts of paragraphs 2 and 3 by importer. They voted 103 MPs: 82, against 1, abstention 20. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u48	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4 by proposing in para. 5 the words............................................................................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 114, para. It's six. on the payment of variable remuneration to the members of the management or control body of the public company, determined pursuant to art. 116c, para. 1 which is not provided by own shares or by an increase in capital under art. 112, para. 4; 7. of transactions concluded by credit institutions on the basis of supervisory measures under Chapter 11, Section VI of the Law on Credit Institutions or of measures under Chapter 5 of the Law on the Recovery and Restructuring of Credit Institutions and Investment Mediators, implemented by the Bulgarian National Bank, in order to ensure their financial stability.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u49	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 4 with the proposal to replace the text made by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 5; and the version proposed by the Commission for § 6. Vote 97 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 26. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u50	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 114a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 2: The members of the management body concerned shall not participate in the preparation of the reasoned report. 2. Previously on AMC's... 2 "6" becomes respectively. 7. 3. The creation of para. 8. The members of the management and control bodies of the public company, the persons of the legal persons, members of such bodies, their prosecutors, persons directly and/or indirectly holding at least 25 percent of the votes in the general meeting of the company or controlling it, shall notify the public company of the transactions above the threshold of art. 114, para. 3, p. 1 point (b) and concluded with a subsidiary of the public company to which the persons are party, including for the period, parties, subject matter and value, and for whose benefit the transactions are carried out prior to their conclusion. 4. So far, the Al. 7 becomes para. 9 and amended as follows: The public company is obliged to disclose under the terms and conditions of art. 100th, para. 1 and 3 transactions under art. 114, para. 2 and 3, as well as the information under para. 8, on the day of their conclusion. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u51	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 7 and the text of the importer of § 8. They voted 100 MPs: for 72, against none, abstention 28. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u52	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 115 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2: (a) New t. is created. 2, 3 and 4: "2." a unique event identifier; 3. ISIN issue code, respectively the emissions of the different share classes issued; 4. hour of the event at the company's headquarters and in coordinated universal time; b) Previous t. 2 "8" becomes pcs, respectively. 5 s 11; c) the current t. 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 ..12. electronic reference to the site of the website of the public company where the information under para. 5. 2. In para. 3 words................................................................................. 2, p. The following points are inserted after point 6a (Commission 3. A new para is being created. 7. On the day of publication under para. 5 of the invitation the public company shall send to the central depository of securities where the relevant securities are registered, the message under art. 110d, para. 1, t. 2 to convene the General Assembly pursuant to Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/1212. Article 110d, ) (a.k.a. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its First and second sentences shall not apply when the company sends the message under art. 110d, para. 1, t. 2 directly to all its shareholders or to a third party designated by the shareholder. 4. So far, the Al. 7 becomes para. 8 and the fourth sentence is created in it: "Alinea 7 shall apply accordingly when the call is updated.' 5. So far, the Al. 8 becomes para. 9. 6. So far, the Al. 9 becomes para. 10 and in it the words "al." Each Member State shall ensure that the following conditions are met: 9.................................................................................. 7. So far, the Al. 10 becomes para. 11. 8. A new para is being created. 12: In carrying out a general meeting by electronic means, the public company shall provide the possibility of receiving immediately electronic confirmation of the votes from the shareholder or his proxy prepared under Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/1212. In the case of a chain of intermediaries, the confirmation shall be transmitted between them in a timely manner. 9. So far, the Al. 11 becomes a new para. 13. 10. So far, the Al. 12 becomes para. 14. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10. ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 115b The following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 3 and 4: In the case of a chain of intermediaries, the last intermediary shall, at the request of the shareholder or a third party designated by the shareholder, confirm the number of voting shares as of the date under para. 1. The confirmation referred to in the first sentence shall be drawn up in accordance with Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/1212. (4) Where required by the public company, the shareholder may request from the intermediary a communication of participation to the public company under Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/1212. Where the notice of participation also includes information on the vote, the last intermediary shall ensure that the number of voting shares in the message corresponds to that of the date under para. 1. When the message is transmitted through the chain of intermediaries prior to the date under para. 1, the last intermediary in the chain shall update the message if necessary. Confirmation of the right to participate shall be drawn up pursuant to Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/1212. 2. Previously on AMC's... 4 " 7" became respectively. 5.. 8................................................................... 3. The creation of para. 9. Within three months from the date of holding of the General Assembly at the request of the shareholder or by a third party designated by the shareholder, the public company shall provide confirmation that the shareholder's vote was actually accounted for and counted by the company. Where an intermediary receives the confirmation, it shall transmit the information in due time to the shareholder or third party designated by the shareholder. In the case of a chain of intermediaries, the confirmation shall be transmitted between them in a timely manner, unless it can be sent directly to the shareholder or to a third party designated by him. The confirmation of receipt, respectively for recording and counting of votes, shall be drawn up and provided under Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/1212.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u53	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the texts of § 9 and § 10. They voted 113 MPs: 93, none, abstention 20. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u54	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11: ..................................................... A new article shall be created. 116a: Art. 116a. (1) In order to carry out activity as an authorised adviser, it is necessary to enter the person in the register under art. 30, para. 1, t. 21 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act under Commission regulation. (2) Delegated advisers shall apply a code of conduct which shall be made public. (3) Where the authorised advisers do not apply a code of conduct, they shall publish detailed reasons therefor. (4) Where authorised advisers do not apply any of the rules of the Code of Conduct, they shall publish information which rule does not also apply detailed reasons for this, indicating the alternative measures taken, if any. (5) The authorised advisers shall make public at least the following information: 1. the main characteristics of the methodologies and models used by them; 2. the main sources of information they use; 3. the procedures for ensuring the quality of research, advice and recommendations for voting and the qualification of their employees; 4. take into account and how the market conditions in the country and the laws and regulations, as well as the specific conditions for individual public companies; 5. the main characteristics of the voting policies applied to each market; 6. are they communicating with public companies subject to their research, advice or voting recommendations, indicating the scope and nature of the communication; 7. the policy regarding the prevention and management of potential conflicts of interest. (6) The information under para. 2 "5" shall be published on the website of the authorised advisors, updated annually and access to it shall be free of charge. The information under para. 5 shall be accessible for a period of not less than three years from its publication. (7) Delegated advisers shall establish and disclose in a timely, complete and written manner to their clients any actual or potential conflict of interest or trade relationship which may affect the preparation of their studies, consultations or voting recommendations, as well as the actions they have taken to remedy, limit or manage a real or potential conflict of interest. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u55	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 11; and the text of the importer for § 12 and § 13. They voted 110 MPs: 90, none, abstention 20. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u56	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 116c, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 is amended as follows: (1) The public company shall adopt and implement a remuneration policy for the members of its management and control bodies, and the requirements for remuneration policy, acceptance, application, disclosure and enforcement shall be determined by a decree. The remuneration policy shall be adopted by the first regular annual general meeting after the acquisition of the quality of a public company. The remuneration and tantiems of the members of the management and control bodies of a public company, as well as the period for which they are due, shall be determined by the General Assembly. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15. The Commission proposes to create a new § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 120 words s and 7s are replaced by 8s.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u57	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 14; the text of the importer for § 15; and a proposal from the Commission to create a new § 16 with a text on the Commission report. They voted 113 MPs: 92, none, abstention 21. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u58	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 17. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 221 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 2 after the words. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the amount of aid referred to in Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is equal to the amount necessary to cover the costs incurred by the beneficiary under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Article 3 (1) (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 establishing a common organisation of the markets in agricultural products and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1290/2005 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 965). 110d (d) and comma (d) 115, para. 1, para. 2, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 9 115, para. 1, 2, 4 " 8, 10 and 12" art. 115a............................................................................................. 115b, para. 2 and (b) shall be replaced by the following: 115b, after the words.............................................................................................. 116a "supplied" is added to "supplied." Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) (b) c. 3 after the words................................................................................................ 111, para. 2, 5, 7 112, para. 4 and 5 and a comma is placed and after the words. 112d "s' is added to the list. 114a, para. 8 and 9 and a comma is placed; (c) c. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 114a, para. 1, 3 and 6 and shall be replaced by the 2. In para. 5 words................................................................................. 114a, para. 4 and 5 and 5 shall be replaced by the following: 114, para. Art. 5 and 6, Art. 116a, para. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm The additional provisions shall make the following additions: 1. In § 1, t is created. 52 - 55: "52." "Corporate event" is a concept within the meaning of art. 1, t. 3 of Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/1212. 53. The last intermediary is a concept within the meaning of art. 1, t. 6 of Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/1212. 54. The Mediator is: (a) an investment firm: (aa) authorised under the terms and conditions of the Financial Instruments Markets Act; (bb) from another Member State authorised to provide investment services and to carry out investment activities under its national legislation introducing Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on markets in financial instruments and amending Directive 2002/92/EC and Directive 2011/61/EU (OB, L 173/349 of 12 June 2014).) (b) a person who is a credit institution: (aa) within the meaning of art. 2, para. 1 of the Law on Credit Institutions, which received a license to carry out a banking activity under art. 2, para. 5 of the Credit Institutions Act; (bb) from another Member State authorised to carry out a banking activity under its national legislation introducing Directive 2013/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on access to the activity of credit institutions and the prudential supervision of institutions and investment firms, amending Directive 2002/87/EC and repealing Directives 2006/48/EC and 2006/48/EC (OB, L 176/338 of 27 June 2013.) (c) a central securities depositary within the meaning of point (1) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 providing share storage services, administration of shares or maintenance of securities accounts on behalf of shareholders or other persons; (d) a person referred to in points (a) and (b) of the first subparagraph of paragraph 1 of this Article, whose seat or head office is not in the territory of a Member State of the European Union and who provides services to shareholders in public companies within the meaning of art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1. 55. "Authorised counsellor' is a legal person based in a Member State or in a third country operating through a principal place of business in a Member State which analyses the disclosure, regulated and other information relating to public companies in order to provide studies, consultations or recommendations in relation to the exercise of the voting rights of investors. 2. In § 1d, para. 1 shall be created point 13: "13." Directive (EU) 2017/828 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2017 amending Directive 2007/36/EC as regards the promotion of long-term shareholder engagement (OB, L 132/1 of 20 May 2017)) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009). 3. In § 1e, para. 1 words................................................................................. 2, 4 and 5 and shall be replaced
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u59	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 17; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 17, which shall become § 18; and the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 18, which shall become § 19. Vote 95 MPs: 78, none, abstention 17. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u60	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name be amended as follows: The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. In the Financial Supervision Commission Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following additions shall be made: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2, p. 1 after the words the administrators of the........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30, para. 1 is created t. 21: ..21. the authorised advisors. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20, which shall become § 21: .................................................................. In the Act on Accounting (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 37, para. 6 is created t. 6: It's six. Is a report submitted on the implementation of the remuneration policy to the annual financial statement provided and whether the report complies with the requirements laid down in the regulation under art. 116c, para. 1 of the Law on the Public Offering of Securities.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u61	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission proposal for the change of the name of the subdivision; the version proposed by the Commission for § 19, which shall become § 20; and the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 20, which shall become § 21. They voted 109 MPs: 84, none, abstention 25. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u62	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 21, which shall become § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Markets in Financial Instruments (prom., SG No. ...) the following additions shall be made: 1. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 75a and 75b: "Political of engagement" Art. 75a. (1) An investment firm providing the portfolio management service involving shares of companies located in a Member State admitted to trading on a regulated market in a Member State shall adopt and publish a commitment policy and information on its implementation. (2) In the engagement policy, the investment firm shall indicate the way in which it integrates into its investment strategy shareholder participation in the companies in which it invests. In the engagement policy, the investment firm shall describe: 1. monitoring the relevant aspects of the activities of the companies in which they invest, including strategy, financial and non-financial results and risk, capital structure and social impact, environmental impact and corporate governance; 2. the implementation of communication with the companies in which they invest; 3. the exercise of voting rights and other rights relating to shares, including the criteria applied for a minor vote due to the subject-matter of the vote or the size of the participation in the company; 4. cooperation with other shareholders and communication with relevant stakeholders in the companies in which they invest; 5. the management of real and potential conflicts of interest related to shareholder participation in the companies in which it invests. (3) The investment firm shall publish annually information on the implementation of the commitment policy containing: 1. a general description of how to vote; 2. explanation of the most important votes; 3. information on whether the services of an authorised adviser within the meaning of Paragraph 1 are used. 55 of the additional provisions of the Law on the Public Offering of Securities; 4. information on how the voting rights arising from the shares in the companies in which it has invested are exercised, except where the voting is negligible according to the criteria under para. 2, p. 3. (4) The engagement policy, including its amendments and additions, shall be published within 7 days of the decision being taken. (5) The investment firm may decide not to adopt a commitment policy by publishing detailed reasons for this within the period under para. 4. (6) The investment firm may decide not to comply with any of the requirements of para. 2, respectively, para. 3 by publishing detailed reasons for this within the period under para. 4. (7) The information under para. 3 shall be published within three months of the end of the financial year in which the voting right is exercised and the information shall remain available until the next publication. (8) The information under para. 1 "6" shall be published on the website of the investment firm and access to it shall be free of charge. "Transparency in portfolio management contract Art. 75b. (1) Investment firm that has entered into a portfolio management contract with a person under art. 197a, para. 1 of the Insurance Code or with a person within the meaning of art. 2 point (e) of Directive 2007/36/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 July 2007 on the exercise of certain shareholder rights of companies admitted to a regulated market (OJ L 184/17 of 14 July 2007).), registered or licensed in another Member State, is obliged to provide the person with information on how the investment strategy of the investment firm and its implementation correspond to the contract concluded and how they contribute to the medium and long-term performance of the individual's assets. (2) The information under para. 1 shall include reporting on the main material medium- and long-term investment risks, portfolio composition, assets and costs related to asset coverage for the use of authorised advisors within the meaning of § 1, item. 55 of the additional provisions of the Law on the Public Offering of Securities for the purposes of the engagement activities and their lending policy and the way in which it is applied to carry out the engagement activities, if applicable, especially at the general meetings of the investee companies. (3) The information under para. 1 shall also include information on whether and how the investment firm takes investment decisions based on an assessment of the medium and long-term performance of the investee, including non-financial performance, as well as on conflicts of interest arising from engagement activities and how the investment firm has resolved them. (4) The information under para. 1 shall be disclosed together with the last report referred to in Article 1. 85, para. 1 for the year concerned. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 290, para. 1, t. 4 after the number 3. In § 2, para. 1 of the additional provisions shall be established. 5. It's five o'clock. Directive (EU) 2017/828 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2017 amending Directive 2007/36/EC as regards the promotion of the long-term commitment of shareholders (OJ L 132/1 of 20 May 2017).) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009).
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u63	Statements? Mr. Gechev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u64	Dear Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members, I request your attention, especially from the GERB Group, who will vote on this § 21 which becomes § 22. For your information, honourable Members, there is a difference in the opinion of government institutions. The Ministry of Finance is proposing one option that I support, the Financial Supervision Commission is proposing another option. The legal experts of the National Assembly support the version of the Ministry of Finance. What's this about? It is about the commitment policy, as the European Union's directives concern precisely the long-term commitment policy of investment firms. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 75a, para. 2, p. 1 it is said that monitoring the relevant aspects of the activities of the companies in which it invests, including a strategy, financial and non-financial results and risk, capital structure and social impact, environmental impact and corporate governance. And now in para. 5 it is said that the investment firm may decide not to adopt a commitment policy by publishing detailed reasons for this within the period under para. 4. In other words, it may fail to comply with the European Union directive. Alinea 6: The investment firm may decide not to comply with any of the requirements of para. 2, respectively, para. 3 by publishing detailed reasons for this within the period under para. 4. In this way, we put investors at a disadvantage. Some have to publish a policy of commitment with a risk assessment for the depositors and others may not publish. What is the duty of those who may not publish, which is in para. 5 and para. Six? They must publish detailed reasons. Well, honourable Members, they may publish, for example, the level of the Danube in centimeters as motives. Because there's no indication of who's accepting them or not accepting them. I propose that we support in this case the position of the Ministry of Finance, which does not want exceptions to be made, and that all investment firms be so good at publishing their commitment under the European Union Directive. I propose an al. 5 and para. 6 drop out, and the rest of the text stays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u65	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. In this situation, we have a formal proposal to drop para. 5 and para. 6, so I would suggest that we take a separate vote... first by para. 5 and para. 6 and then for the whole text under § 21 of the Commission proposal. I put to the vote Mr. Rumen Gechev's proposal to drop para. 5 and para. 6. They voted 100 MPs: 38, against 36, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 21 in the version of the Commission which shall become § 22. They voted 93 MPs: for 67, against 2, abstention 24. The motion is accepted. Please continue, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u66	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 22, which shall become § 23: ..................................................... (1) The persons referred to in art. 75a, para. 1 of the Financial Instruments Markets Act adopt and publish a commitment policy or decide not to adopt a commitment policy by publishing detailed reasons for this within 6 months of the entry into force of this law. (2) The information referred to in art. 75a, para. 3 and under art. 75b of the Financial Instruments Markets Act shall be disclosed for the first time by 31 March 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u67	I propose, Mrs. Saveklieva, because the next paragraph is quite large, that we vote this one. Are there any speeches on this paragraph? I can't see. I shall put to the vote § 22 in the version of the Commission which shall become § 23. They voted 103 MPs: 79, none, abstention 24. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u68	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. In the Insurance Code (promote, SG No. ...) the following additions shall be made: 1. In Chapter 16 prior to art. 196 a name is created: 2. Section II shall be established in Chapter 16 with art. 197a - 197c: "Department II............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ "Administrative Field" Art. 197a. (1) This section shall apply to: 1. insurance undertakings carrying out life insurance activities within the meaning of Section I of Annex No 1; 2. Reinsurers carrying out reinsurance activities within the meaning of art. 4 to the extent that these activities cover life insurance obligations. (2) This section shall apply to the persons under para. 1 when investing in shares of companies based in a Member State admitted to trading on a regulated market in a Member State. "Political of engagement" Art. 197b. (1) The person referred to in art. 197a, para. 1 adopt and publish an engagement policy, as well as information on its implementation. (2) In the policy of engagement the person under art. 197a, para. 1 indicates the way in which it integrates into its investment strategy shareholder participation in the companies in which it invests. In the engagement policy, the investment firm shall describe: 1. monitoring the relevant aspects of the activities of the companies in which they invest, including strategy, financial and non-financial results and risk, capital structure and social impact, environmental impact and corporate governance; 2. the implementation of communication with the companies in which they invest; 3. the exercise of voting rights and other rights relating to shares, including the criteria applied for a minor vote due to the subject-matter of the vote or the size of the participation in the company; 4. cooperation with other shareholders and communication with relevant stakeholders in the companies in which they invest; 5. the management of real and potential conflicts of interest related to shareholder participation in the companies in which it invests. (3) The person referred to in art. 197a, para. 1 annual publication of information on the implementation of the engagement policy containing: 1. a general description of how to vote; 2. explanation of the most important votes; 3. information on whether the services of an authorised adviser within the meaning of Paragraph 1 are used. 55 of the additional provisions of the Law on the Public Offering of Securities; 4. information on how the voting rights arising from the shares in the companies in which it has invested are exercised, except where the voting is negligible according to the criteria under para. 2, p. 3. (4) The engagement policy, including its amendments and additions, shall be published within 7 days of the decision being taken. (5) The person referred to in art. 197a, para. 1 may decide not to adopt a policy of engagement by publishing detailed reasons for this within the period under para. 4. (6) The person referred to in art. 197a, para. 1 may decide not to comply with any of the requirements of para. 2, respectively, para. 3 by publishing detailed reasons for this within the period under para. 4. (7) The information under para. 3 shall be published within three months of the end of the financial year in which the voting right is exercised and the information shall remain available until the next publication. (8) The information under para. 1 "6" shall be published on the website of the person under art. 197a, para. 1 and access to it is free. Where an asset manager applies the commitment policy and votes on behalf of a person under art. 197a, para. 1, the person referred to in Article 1. 197a, para. 1 shall indicate by electronic reference the location of the asset manager's website where voting information is published. "Transparency of the investment strategy for equity investment Art. 197c. (1) The persons referred to in art. 197a, para. 1 publish information on how the main elements of their equity investment strategy correspond to the profile and duration of their liabilities, in particular long-term liabilities, and how they contribute to the medium-term and long-term profitability of their assets. (2) When an asset manager invests on behalf of a person under art. 197a, para. 1 at its own discretion for each individual client or through a collective investment undertaking, the person under art. 197a, para. 1 make public the following information regarding its arrangements with the asset manager: 1. how the arrangement with the asset manager stimulates the asset manager to reconcile its investment strategy and decisions with the profile and duration of the entity's obligations under art. 197a, para. 1; 2. how that arrangement stimulates the asset manager to take investment decisions on the basis of estimates of the medium and long-term financial and non-financial performance of the investee and to engage with the investees in order to improve their performance in the medium and long term; 3. how the method and time horizon of assessing the performance of the asset manager and remuneration for asset management services are in line with the profile and duration of the obligations of the person under art. 197a, para. 1 taking into account the absolute long-term return; 4. how it monitors the costs associated with the asset coverage made by the asset manager and how it determines and monitors the target asset coverage or the range of the target asset coverage in the portfolio; 5. what is the duration of the arrangements with the asset manager. (3) Where the arrangements with the asset manager do not contain one or more of the assets listed in para. 2 elements, the person under art. 197a, para. 1 publish detailed reasons for this. (4) The information under para. 1 " 3" shall be published on the website of the person under art. 197a, para. 1 shall be updated annually as well as with substantial changes and access to it shall be free of charge. (5) The person referred to in art. 197a, para. 1 in the performance of his duties under para. This information may be included in its solvency report and the financial situation of art. 129, indicating by electronic reference the place on its website where the report was published. 3. In the additional provisions: (a) Paragraph 1 shall create a t. 56: ..56. "Acceptance Manager" is a concept within the meaning of art. 2 point (e) of Directive 2007/36/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 July 2007 on the exercise of certain shareholder rights of companies admitted to a regulated market (OJ L 184/17 of 14 July 2007).) (b) Paragraph 7, para. 1 is created t. 11: "11." Directive (EU) 2017/828 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2017 amending Directive 2007/36/EC as regards the promotion of the long-term commitment of shareholders (OJ L 132/1 of 20 May 2017).) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009).
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u69	Are there any speeches? I can't see. Please, a procedure for voting under § 23 of an importer in the version of the Commission, which becomes § 24. Vote 98 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 27. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u70	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24, which shall become § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) The persons referred to in art. 197a, para. 1 of the Insurance Code adopt and publish a commitment policy or decide not to adopt a commitment policy by publishing detailed reasons for this within 6 months of the entry into force of this law. (2) The information referred to in art. 197b, para. 3 and under art. 197c of the Insurance Code shall be disclosed for the first time by 31 March 2021 The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 25, which shall become § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Code of Social Security (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 4. (aa) in the text before t. 1 after the word "Management" shall be added (bb) c. point 5 (c) is replaced by the following: (b) paragraph 5 is amended as follows: The management body shall review the documents referred to in paragraph 1 at least once a year, except where otherwise provided in this Code. 4 shall submit amendments or additions to them in the event of changes in the management system or in the relevant field of activity or where necessary for other reasons. The management body shall submit to the general meeting of shareholders an annual report on the implementation of the documents under para. 4. The pension insurance company shall present the report to the committee within 7 days of its examination by the General Assembly. 2. Article 25 is inserted in Chapter 25. 251d and 251e: Information on the equity investment strategy Art. 251. A pension insurance company managing an additional voluntary pension fund under professional schemes shall publish free of charge on its website information on how the main elements of the equity investment strategy of the fund correspond to the nature and duration of the fund's liabilities and, in particular, how they contribute to the medium-term and long-term profitability of the fund. The information referred to in the first sentence shall be updated annually as well as material changes and published within three months of the end of the financial year in which the update took place. "Political of engagement" Art. 251d. (1) A pension insurance company managing a supplementary voluntary pension fund under professional schemes which invests the fund's funds in shares of companies located in a Member State admitted to trading on a regulated market in a Member State shall adopt and publish a commitment policy as well as information on its implementation. (2) In the engagement policy, the pension insurance company shall state how it includes the commitment of the fund to additional voluntary pension insurance under professional schemes as a shareholder in the activity of investing the fund's funds. In the commitment policy, the pension insurance company shall describe: 1. the way in which it monitors the essential aspects of the companies in which the fund invests, including strategy, financial and non-financial results and risk, capital structure and social impact, environmental impact and corporate governance; 2. the implementation of communication with the companies in which the funds of the fund are invested; 3. exercising the right to vote and other rights relating to shares, including the criteria applied for a minor vote due to the subject-matter of the vote or due to the size of the shareholding in the company; 4. the implementation of cooperation with the other shareholders in the companies in which the funds of the fund are invested; 5. management of real and potential conflicts of interest with regard to the commitment of the fund as shareholder; (3) The pension insurance company shall publish annually information on the implementation of the commitment policy containing: 1. a general description of how to vote; 2. explanation of the most important votes; 3. information on whether the services of an authorised adviser within the meaning of Paragraph 1 are used. 55 of the additional provisions of the Law on the Public Offering of Securities; 4. information on how the voting rights arising from the shares in the companies in which the funds of the fund are invested are exercised, except where the voting is negligible according to the criteria under para. 2, p. 3. (4) The engagement policy, including its amendments and additions, shall be published within 7 days of the decision being taken. (5) The pension insurance company may decide not to adopt a commitment policy by publishing detailed reasons for this within the period under para. 4. (6) The pension insurance company may decide not to comply with any of the requirements of para. 2, respectively, para. 3 by publishing detailed reasons for this within the period under para. 4. (7) The information under para. 3 shall be published within three months of the end of the financial year in which the voting right is exercised and the information shall remain available until the next publication. (8) The information under para. 1 "6" is published on the website of the pension insurance company and access to it is free of charge. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing 4. In § 1a, para. 1 of the additional provisions shall be established. 11: "11." Directive (EU) 2017/828 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2017 amending Directive 2007/36/EC as regards the promotion of long-term shareholder engagement (OB, L 132/1 of 20 May 2017)) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009).
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u71	Are there any speeches? I can't see. Please, a procedure for voting under § 24 in the version of the Commission, which becomes § 25, and § 25, also in the version of the Commission, which becomes § 26. Vote 117 MPs: for 89, against none, abstention 28. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u72	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 26, which shall become § 27: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says that the Bible is true. " (1) Pension insurance companies under art. 251e of the Social Security Code shall adopt and publish a commitment policy or decide not to adopt a commitment policy by publishing detailed reasons for this within 6 months of the entry into force of this law. (2) The information referred to in art. Art. 251d and under art. 251d, para. 3 of the Social Security Code shall be published for the first time by 31 March 2021 The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 27, which shall become § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 The Law on the Activity of collective investment schemes and other collective investment undertakings shall make the following additions: 1. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) Art. 105a. 105b: Art. 105a. (1) Managing company which, when carrying out the activity under art. 86, para. 1, t. 1 and 2 and para. 2, p. 1 and 2 invest in shares of companies based in a Member State admitted to trading on a regulated market in a Member State, adopt and publish a policy of commitment and information on its implementation. (2) In the engagement policy, the management company shall indicate how it includes in its investment strategy the commitment of the collective investment scheme to the person whose portfolio it manages. In the engagement policy, the management company shall describe: 1. monitoring the relevant aspects of the activities of the companies in which they invest at the expense of the collective investment scheme, respectively of the person whose portfolio manages, including strategy, financial and non-financial results and risk, capital structure and social impact, environmental impact and corporate governance; 2. communicating with the companies in which they invest; 3. exercising the right to vote and other rights relating to the shares, including the criteria applied for a minor vote due to the subject of the vote or the amount of participation in the company; 4. cooperation with other shareholders and communication with relevant stakeholders in the companies in which they invest; 5. the management of real and potential conflicts of interest related to shareholder participation in the companies in which it invests. (3) The managing company shall publish annually the information on the implementation of the commitment policy containing: 1. a general description of how to vote; 2. explanation of the most important votes; 3. information on the use of the services of an authorised advisor within the meaning of § 1, item 3. 55 of the additional provisions of the Law on the Public Offering of Securities. 4. information on how the right to vote is exercised in the companies in which it has invested at the expense of the collective investment scheme, respectively of the person whose portfolio manages, except where the vote is negligible according to the criteria under para. 2, p. 3. (4) The engagement policy, including its amendments and additions, shall be published within 7 days of the decision being taken. (5) The management company may decide not to adopt a policy of engagement by publishing detailed reasons within the period under para. 4. (6) The management company may decide not to comply with any of the requirements of para. 2, respectively, para. 3 by publishing detailed reasons for this within the period under para. 4. (7) The information under para. 3 shall be published within three months of the end of the financial year in which the voting right is exercised and the information shall remain available until the next publication. (8) The information under para. 1 "6" is published on the management company's website and access to it is free of charge. Art. 105b. (1) Managing company that has concluded a portfolio management contract, including through a collective investment scheme, with a person under art. 197a, para. 1 of the Insurance Code or with a person within the meaning of art. 2 point (e) of Directive 2007/36/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 July 2007 on the exercise of certain shareholder rights of companies admitted to a regulated market (OB, L 184/17 of 14 July 2007).), registered or authorised in another Member State, is obliged to provide the person annually with information on how the investment strategy of the management company and its implementation comply with the contract concluded and how they contribute to the medium and long-term performance of the entity's assets. (2) The information under para. 1 shall include reporting on the main material medium- and long-term investment risks, portfolio composition, asset coverage and costs related to asset coverage and the use of authorised advisors within the meaning of § 1, item. 55 of the additional provisions of the Law on the Public Offering of Securities for the purposes of the engagement activities and their lending policy and the way in which it is applied to carry out the engagement activities, if applicable, especially at the general meetings of the investee companies. (3) The information under para. 1 shall also include information on whether and how the management company makes investment decisions based on an assessment of the medium and long-term performance of the investee, including non-financial performance, and whether and what conflicts of interest have arisen in relation to the engagement activity and the manner in which the management company has resolved them. (4) The information under para. 1 shall be disclosed together with the annual financial statement referred to in Article 1. 60, para. 1, t. 1, respectively, along with the latest report under Art. 1. 85, para. 1 of the Financial Instruments Markets Act for the relevant year. (5) In the implementation of the policy of engagement the management company shall comply with the provisions of art. No. 104, para. 1, t. Art. 5 and art. 105, para. 1, t. 4. 2. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 219a: Art. 219a. (1) For the person managing alternative investment funds who has obtained a licence under the conditions of art. Article 201 shall apply accordingly. 105a and 105b. (2) In the implementation of the engagement policy, the person managing alternative investment funds shall comply with the provisions of art. 219 and 220. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 273, para. 1, t. 1 after the word "supplier" shall be added "105a," 105b, art. "supplier" and after the words "supplier." 199, para. "Twelve" shall be added. 219 a.m. and a comma. 4. In § 2 of the additional provisions, paragraph 2 shall be inserted. 6: It's six. Directive (EU) 2017/828 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2017 amending Directive 2007/36/EC as regards the promotion of long-term shareholder engagement (OB, L 132/1 of 20 May 2017)) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009). The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 28, which shall become § 29: ........................ 29...................................................... (1) The persons referred to in art. 105a, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 219a, para. 1 of the Law on the Activity of collective investment schemes and of other collective investment undertakings shall adopt and publish a commitment policy or decide not to adopt a commitment policy by publishing detailed reasons for this within 6 months of the entry into force of this law. (2) The information referred to in art. 105a, para. Art. 3 and Art. 105b of the Law on the Activity of collective investment schemes and other collective investment undertakings shall be disclosed for the first time by 31 March 2021 The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 29, which shall become § 30: 30. (1) Paragraphs 2, 3, 9, 10 and 17 shall enter into force from 3 September 2020. (2) Paragraphs 1 and 21 shall enter into force from 1 January 2021 The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that § 30 be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in a new § 30.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-11.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Shevked. Are there any speeches? I can't see. Colleagues, I shall put to the vote the version of § 26, 27, 28 and 29 which shall become § 27, 28, 29 and 30 respectively under the Commission Report and the rejection of § 30. They voted 110 MPs: for 83, against 1, abstention 26. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we've exhausted today's agenda with this. Tomorrow a regular plenary session Thursday, 9:00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
