ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members. There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members, I present to your attention a draft work programme for the National Assembly for 7 October 2020: As the first Wednesday of the month, there should be proposals from the parliamentary groups under art. 53, para. 8... none of these have been done. "1." First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Responsibility Act for the Prevention and Elimination of Environmental Damage. Importer: Council of Ministers on 11 August 2020 2. Draft law on ratification of the Agreement on the termination of bilateral investment contracts between the Member States of the European Union. Importer: Council of Ministers on 3 September 2020 3. A bill for ratifying the Statute of the International Network for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and the Statute of the Association of European Organizations for Promotion of Trade. Importer: Council of Ministers on 11 September 2020 4. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Asylum and Refugees. Importer: Council of Ministers on 7 July 2020, adopted on the first vote on 29 July 2020. 5. Annual Activity Report of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2018. Importer: Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019 6. Annual Activity Report of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2019. Importer: Council of Ministers on 3 July 2020. 7. New discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Election Code, adopted by the National Assembly on 17 September 2020, returned for a new discussion with Decree No 199 of 28 September 2020 of the President of the Republic under art. 101 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria 8. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Child Protection Act. Importers: Plamen Hristov and a group of MPs on 24 July 2020. Point 2 for Thursday, 8 October 2020 9. Election of the President of the Central Election Commission. (The procedure of choice is in accordance with rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 23 September 2020) Point 1 for Friday, 9 October 2020 10. Parliamentary control. Please vote. Vote 186 MPs: 127 against 28, abstention 31. The motion is accepted. A proposal has been made by the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. 53, para. 3: "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 113 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly we propose to hold a hearing of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov and the Minister of Defence Krasimir Karakachanov on the government-led talks and the defence ministry's request for the purchase of new weapons. On the basis of art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure shall be included as follows: 1 for Wednesday from the monthly program of the National Assembly for the period 7 "October 9th 2020 " Importers: Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs. Two minutes you have to justify the proposal, colleagues from BSP. You won't take advantage. I put to the vote the proposal to include this item in the Programme for this week. Vote 186 MPs: 72 against 100 abstentions 14. The offer is not accepted. Draft and draft resolutions from 30 September 2020 to 6 October 2020 shall: Report on the activity of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019. Importer Distributed to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Medical Institutions. Importer "Valery Simeonov and group of MPs. The Committee on Health is the lead. Report on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 Report on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 Annual Report and Activity Report of the State Fund to Guarantee the Sustainability of the State Pension System for 2019 Annual report on the state of the sovereign debt for 2019. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee. Communication: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces by its own orders has authorised: 1. The passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of a military transport plane with its crew of the Air Force of Ukraine. The authorisation shall be valid for the period from 8 to 17 October 2020, including for a total of four flights to transport military cargo from Ukraine to the Republic of Ghana. 2. Passing through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria and landing on the territory of the country of non-military nature of an aircraft with its crew of the Air Force of the Republic of Iraq. The authorisation shall be valid for the period from 4 October 2020 for a total of two flights for the purpose of transporting the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Iraq to Sofia and vice versa. 3. The passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of a non-military nature of an aircraft with its crew of the Air Force of the Republic of Iraq. The authorisation shall be valid for the period from 19 to 24 October 2020 for a total of two flights to transport a military delegation from the Republic of Iraq to the Czech Republic and vice versa. The orders issued are within the competence of the Minister of Defence, concerning the assessment of the military parameters of the passage with a view to the defence of the country. 1. On issues concerning export control and in accordance with international sanctions regimes mandatory for the Republic of Bulgaria, the country's airspace clearances should be granted to the State concerned after a positive opinion from the competent authorities in these areas. The Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. 2. For the time of 6 October 2020, a joint Bulgarian-American training will be held in the area of the joint Bulgarian-American training facility Novo selo. In the joint preparation will take part the formations of the US armed forces in the composition: soldiers with the necessary equipment, state weapons and military supplies, military aircraft, transport, auxiliary and repair equipment. The preparations shall be carried out in the implementation of the agreements reached on the implementation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States on Defence Cooperation and shall not be related to military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to activities to prevent military activities conducted by other (other country or organisation of armed forces). 3. In the performance of art. 65, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria has, by its order, authorised the dispatch of a warship frigate with its state-owned military and military personnel to take part in the second permanent NATO patrol group. The teachings of the naval forces of the Republic of Turkey and the Hellenic Republic, and to visit the port of Alexandria in Egypt, and the port of Haifa in Israel. The overall transition is intended to take place between 26 October and 15 December 2020. The notifications were received from 2 to 6 October 2020. No 003-09-78 to 003-09-82 and provided to the Defence Committee. Messages: On 30 September 2020, the National Assembly was given the developed and adopted by the Economic and Social Council on the topic: Digital Transformation in Bulgaria. Challenges and opportunities in the context of Europe's digital future. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was provided to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Transport and Information Technologies and Communications, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Education and Science and is available to the Members of the National Assembly. Information was received from the National Statistical Institute on: Gross domestic product in the second quarter of 2020; Labour productivity, employed persons and spent time for the second quarter of 2020; Indexes of turnover in the section.. Retail trade without car and motorcycle trading in July 2020; Indexes of industrial production in July 2020; Indexes of construction production in July 2020; Inflation and indexes of consumer prices in August 2020; Industrial konjuncture in September 2020; Indexes of producer prices in the domestic and international market in the industry month August 2020; Key indicators for the development of the economy in the Republic of Bulgaria as of October 2020. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to point one: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE PREVENTATION AND EXTRACTION OF THE ELECTRONIC WITNESSES. With the report of the Committee on Environment and Water, Mr. Tsvetkov will introduce us.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u2	Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2, I am making a procedural proposal in the Chamber to be admitted by the Ministry of Environment and Water: Mr. Nikolay Kanchev, Deputy Minister, and Mrs. Silvia Dimitrova, Director of the Directorate for Environmental Assessment, Environmental Impact Assessment and Pollution Prevention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u3	Thank you. I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 149 MPs: 139 without objection, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u4	♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Responsibility Act for the Prevention and Elimination of Environmental Damage, No 002-01-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 August 2020. At a regular meeting held on 1 October 2020, the Committee on Environment and Water discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Responsibility for the Prevention and Elimination of Environmental Damage, No 002-01-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 August 2020. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Environment and Water: Mrs. Michaela Dotsova, Acting Secretary General, and Mrs. Sylvia Dimitrova, Director of the Directorate of Environmental Assessment, Environmental Impact Assessment and Pollution Prevention. On behalf of the importers, the bill and the reasons for it were presented by Ms Dotsova. It stressed that the submitted draft is intended to ensure the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2019/10 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 June 2019 on the alignment of reporting obligations under environmental legislation and amending Regulations (EC) No 166/2006 and (EU) No 995/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council, Council Directives 2002/49/EC, 2004/35/EC, 2007/2/EC, 2009/147/EC and 2010/63/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council, Council Regulations (EC) No 338/97 and (EC) No 2173/2005 and Council Directive 86/278/EEC. The amending European act is a regulation and as such has direct application. Given that the said Regulation amends Directive 2004/35/EC on environmental liability as regards the prevention and removal of environmental damage transposed into our national legislation by the law on liability for the prevention and elimination of environmental damage, the Law should be amended in order to avoid contradictions at European and national level. The adoption of the bill will ensure: - compliance with the requirements of Directive 2004/35/EC and Regulation (EU) 2019/10 for the submission of information and data by 30 April 2022 and every five years thereafter; Comparison of the information and data to be provided by the Republic of Bulgaria to the European Commission with those required by art. 3 of Regulation (EU) 2019/10 and which are the basis for the assessment of the application of Directive 2004/35/EC to be carried out by the European Commission. The changes are related to the obligations of the Republic of Bulgaria to report environmental damage to the European Commission. The information and data that our country will provide are reviewed. The following reporting periods shall also be determined, i.e. until 30 April 2022 and every five years thereafter. Currently, only the first period of reporting to the European Commission is regulated in the current law, which has been implemented by 30 April 2013. A detailed review of the provisions of the Law has also been carried out in the preparation of the Bill in terms of the experience of its implementation. In this regard, additions are proposed which aim to remedy deficiencies and improve the application of the procedures laid down in the law. The changes do not introduce new procedures, but specify the control of the implementation of measures to prevent an immediate threat to environmental damage or to remedy environmental damage. After the discussion and the vote held, the Committee on Environment and Water with 11 votes for.................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Responsibility for the Prevention and Elimination of Environmental Damage, No 002-01-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 August 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u5	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetkov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mrs. Lurtova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Regulation (EU) 2019/10 entered into force on 25 June 2019. The amending European act is a regulation and as such has direct application. Given that it also amends Directive 2004/35/EC on environmental liability as regards the prevention and removal of environmental damage transposed into our national legislation by means of the law on liability for the prevention and elimination of environmental damage, the Law should be amended in order to avoid contradictions in the regulations at European and national level. Directive 2004/35/EC lays down rules on the basis of the principle of the This means that a company causing environmental damage is responsible for them and must take the necessary action to prevent or eliminate them and bear all related costs. Environmental damage is damage that significantly affects the ecological, chemical or quantitative state of water resources, soil damage, damage to protected species and natural habitats. If there is an imminent threat of damage, the company must immediately take the necessary preventive measures. If damage has already been done, the company must immediately inform the authorities and take steps to manage the situation. The adoption of Regulation (EU) 2019/10 will express the lack of a legal provision in the liability law for preventing and removing damage concerning the future reporting of the Republic of Bulgaria to the European Commission on the implementation of the Directive, according to the new deadlines with the Regulation, as well as the non-compliance with the scope and format of the required data in the Report. The proposal will have a direct or indirect effect on natural persons who are operators within the meaning of art. 19a of the Law, of economic operators, competent authorities, control bodies and non-governmental environmental organisations. The Member States of the European Union shall report to the Commission on the experience gained in the implementation of this Directive. The amendments to the Law introduce the time limits for providing information to the European Commission. The information must be collected by 30 April 2022, then collected every five years by 30 April 2023, and every five years the Commission will publish an assessment that it has carried out under this Directive on the basis of the information provided by the countries of the European Union. The European register for the release and transmission of pollutants is a publicly available electronic database with basic environmental data from industrial facilities in Europe. The Register shall contain information on emissions of pollutants to air, water and soil. Each year, operators shall send information to their national authorities on their releases and transfers of pollutants and, in turn, the national authorities shall forward the information to the Commission. The parliamentary group of GERB will support the Bill because it will ensure compliance of national application of Directive 2004/35/EC, respectively of Regulation (EU) 2019/10, to the European implementation and comparability of the data provided by Bulgaria to the European Commission with the data required under art. 3 of Regulation (EU) 2019/1010.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u7	Thank you. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Responsibility for the Prevention and Elimination of Environmental Damage, No 002-01-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers. They voted 139 MPs: 133, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. We continue with the second point of the program: LAW PROJECT FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT FOR THE TERMINATION OF THE DIVERSAL INVESTIGATION AGREEMENTS BETWEEN THE AGENCY OF THE EUROPEAN UNION. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 3 September 2020. Ms. Alexandrova, who will present the Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs? Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Your attention: ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the termination of bilateral investment contracts between the Member States of the European Union, No 002-02-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 September 2020. At its meeting held on 15 September 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the termination of bilateral investment contracts between the Member States of the European Union, No 002-02-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 September 2020. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Finance: Mrs. Marinela Petrova Deputy Minister, and Ms. Denitsa Krasteva Chief Legal Consult at the Directorate of Judicial Protection. Mrs. Petrova presented the Draft Law, pointing out that, in connection with the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon on 1 December 2009, the European Commission took steps towards the termination of international contracts for the protection of foreign investments concluded between the Member States of the European Union, with the aim of becoming an element of the common trade policy of the European Union. She added that a Decision of the Council of Ministers of 15 June 2011 approved the position of the Republic of Bulgaria on the readiness to terminate bilateral investment contracts concluded between Bulgaria and the Member States of the European Union and adopted a coordinated approach for the conclusion of a multilateral agreement. The multilateral agreement was signed on 5 May 2020 between 23 Member States, including the Republic of Bulgaria. The Agreement will end 19 bilateral investment contracts of the Republic of Bulgaria as well as the clause for extending the protection agreed in the terminated contract with the Italian Republic. Mrs. Petrova pointed out that by judgment in Case C-284/16 of 6 March 2018, the Court of Justice of the European Union held that the arbitration clauses in bilateral investment contracts between the Member States of the European Union are contrary to art. Art. 267, Art. 344 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and therefore not applicable. As a result of the practice adopted by the court, the Agreement on the termination of bilateral investment contracts contains provisions by which the Member States confirm the non-appliance of arbitration clauses in bilateral investment contracts and declare them not applicable. The Agreement shall be subject to ratification on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. As a result of the vote held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 20 votes for the European Union, without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the ratification of the Agreement on the termination of bilateral investment contracts between the Member States of the European Union, No 002-02-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 September 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance Mrs. Angelova, will you present the report? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement on the termination of bilateral investment contracts between the Member States of the European Union, No 002-02-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 September 2020. At a meeting held on 24 September 2020, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. The Agreement on the termination of bilateral investment contracts between the Member States of the European Union was approved by the Council of Ministers on 29 April 2020 and signed on 5 May 2020 in Brussels, the Kingdom of Belgium, between 23 Member States of the European Union, including the Republic of Bulgaria. Following the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon on 1 December 2009, the European Commission launched an initiative to establish a common position on the existence and application of bilateral investment contracts concluded between the Member States of the European Union. By judgment in Case C-284/16 of 6 March 2018, the Court of Justice of the European Union held that the arbitration clauses in bilateral investment contracts between the Member States of the European Union are contrary to art. Art. 267, Art. 344 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and therefore not applicable. By the Agreement, the Contracting Member States shall terminate the bilateral investment contracts concluded between them, including the clauses contained in those contracts extending the protection of investments made before the date of termination, for an additional period of time, the so-called extension clauses, as well as the extension clauses contained in terminated bilateral investment contracts. In parallel to the termination of bilateral investment contracts, the Agreement aims to regulate international investment arbitration cases which are formed on the basis of the arbitration clauses contained in bilateral investment contracts between the Contracting States. The implementation of the Agreement does not require the cost of financial or other funds. The Agreement will end 19 bilateral investment contracts of the Republic of Bulgaria with Member States of the European Union, as well as the clause for extending the protection agreed in the terminated contract with the Italian Republic. The Agreement is in accordance with European Union law. The agreement is subject to ratification by a law of the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. After the discussion of the Draft was held, a vote was held which ended with the following results: 21 votes for the draft, without abstention and abstention, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to support the first vote Draft for ratification of the Agreement on the termination of bilateral investment contracts between the Member States of the European Union, No 002-02-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 September 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. You have the floor, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement on the termination of bilateral investment contracts between the Member States of the European Union, No 002-02-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 September 2020. At a regular meeting held on 30 September 2020, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft for ratification of the Agreement on the termination of bilateral investment contracts between the Member States of the European Union, No 002-02-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 September 2020. The bill was presented by Ms. Denitsa Krasteva, Chief Legal Consult at the Directorate of Judicial Protection at the Ministry of Finance. On the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria with this bill is proposed to the National Assembly to ratify the above agreement by law. The Agreement on the termination of bilateral investment contracts between the Member States of the European Union was signed on 5 May 2020 in Brussels, the Kingdom of Belgium, by the Permanent Representative of the Republic of Bulgaria, subject to subsequent ratification. The importers point out that the proposed draft law aims to end Bulgaria's bilateral investment contracts with Member States of the European Union and to regulate international investment arbitration cases which are formed on the basis of the arbitration clauses contained in bilateral investment contracts between the Contracting Parties. The agreement is based on enhanced discussions between the Member States with the mediation of the European Commission and has been developed following a decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union in the Ahea case, in which the Court has ruled that the arbitration clauses in international treaties for the protection of foreign investment between Member States are contrary to art. Art. 267, Art. 344 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It is stated that the Agreement is in accordance with European Union law and its application does not require the expenditure of financial or other funds. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds unanimously proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the termination of bilateral investment contracts between the Member States of the European Union, No 002-02-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 September 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u13	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. There are no speeches. I put to the vote a bill ratifying the Agreement on the termination of bilateral investment contracts between the Member States of the European Union, No 002-02-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers. They voted 107 MPs: for 107 against and abstentions there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u14	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u15	Mr. Ivanov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal on the grounds of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly Draft for ratification of the Agreement on the termination of bilateral investment contracts between the Member States of the European Union, No 002-02-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 September 2020, just adopted in the first vote, to be voted on at second reading in today's sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u17	Thank you. I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 93 MPs: 92, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please continue with the presentation of the texts of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. LAW ratifying the Agreement on the termination of bilateral investment contracts between the Member States of the European Union A single member. It ratifies the Agreement on the termination of bilateral investment contracts between the Member States of the European Union signed on 5 May 2020 in Brussels, the Kingdom of Belgium. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u19	Thank you. Are there any speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I put to the vote the following texts: the name of the Law, the content of the article alone, the name of the section They voted 106 MPs: for 103, they won't mind, they abstentioned 3. The bill has been passed. We continue with the next item of the Programme: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE STATUS OF THE INTERNATIONAL MARKET FOR SMALL AND MEDITERRESTRIBUTION AND OF THE STATUTE OF THE ASSOCIATION OF THE EUROPEAN ORGANIZATIONS FOR THE RESTRUCTURING OF TRADE. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u20	Declaration on behalf of the group!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u21	A declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group, you have the floor, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u22	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Yesterday, in an interview with bTV, the MP from the parliamentary group of BSP Ivo Hristov called the Bulgarian people an infantile population. This is not the first case in which Mr. Hristov treats Bulgarian citizens with contempt. Three years ago he said that 80% of Bulgarians were retarded. With his latest television performance Mr. Hristov practically reaffirmed this thesis. GERB's parliamentary group is solidarity with the position of the Youth Organization of the Party and strongly condemns such statements. It is unacceptable for us to have a MP who, according to the spirit and letter of the Bulgarian Constitution, is obliged to represent the entire Bulgarian people, to express such contempt for his compatriots. We demand that the leadership of the parliamentary group of BSP take a clear position with regard to the words of Mr. Hristov, as well as to clearly distinguish himself from those qualifications, or to take political responsibility for them. This is the least you can do in this situation because Mr. Hristov's statement casts a shadow of doubt over the sincerity of your stated intentions to work for the good of the Bulgarian people. Your passive position after such statements is symptomatic of your thinking. Only those Bulgarian citizens who are ready to recognize you as their political representation are uninfantile and unstable to you. This political hubris is one of the reasons why you have been unable to gain the trust of the majority of Bulgarian citizens for more than ten years. Such statements destroy not only your confidence in your political power but also in the entire National Assembly. In it we are all called to express the common position of our constituents and to treat those who do not share our views and ideological biases, because each of us is in this Chamber thanks to those whom Mr. Hristov calls an infantile population. Dear colleagues, the hubris in politics and fiction of certain circles, who think they are called to change the people and not to help them, is the rejection of the philosophy of the democratic system. This is totalitarian ideological instinct, which in the new Bulgarian history has caused enough trauma to the same people. GERB's parliamentary group tends to swallow the insults and epithetes with which we are called by our political opponents in recent months and years. However, we are not inclined to remain silent when someone allows himself qualifications with regard to the Bulgarian people, his traditions and his choice to follow one or another path of his development. We are in this room to help the Bulgarian people, not to lecture them, blame them or insult them. If the purpose of BSP's presence in this Chamber is different, then you can continue to treat such statements passively. This will only make the double standard you traditionally display even more visible. From the parliamentary group of GERB we will refer to the Parliamentary Committee on Ethics to consider the case of Mr. Hristov. We are doing this because we are convinced that neither Mrs. Ninova nor the BSP parliamentary group will have the courage to take part in this case.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. In the manner of conduct you have the floor, Mr. Stoinev. Very please, strictly in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! However, when you are surrounded by assholes, no politics can be made, no truth can be spoken and reforms can be made.... I quote Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. Who will apologize for those words?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u25	What does this have to do with the way you conduct yourself, Mr. Stoinev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u26	Are you idiots that you can't carry out reforms?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u27	Mr. Stoynev, if you don't have a note for me, please...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u28	No, I ask because there was a remark, Mr President, that it is allowed in Parliament, knowing very well what declaration there will be from the parliamentary group, to have a focus on a statement taken out of context and not to focus on the real problems in the country. How would we react when the President of the National Assembly is just a Kardzhali guug? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] How would we react to a similar...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u29	Mr. Stoynev, please stop your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u30	No, no, no, that's what the Prime Minister said. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u31	No, Mr. Stoynev, that's as far as you're concerned. Please...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u32	Then you have the right to release...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u33	I'll take your word for it, Mr. Stoinev. You've broken the good tone, you're breaking the rules now. [[The National Representative continues to speak with microphones off. Noise and lines by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u34	Either you make a statement on the agenda, or... What's all this fictional stuff?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u35	Mr. Stoynev, please take your place and do not enter into such verbal fights in the Chamber. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I am making a procedural proposal on the grounds of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 sentence third of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to put to the vote an extension of the proposals between the first and second votes of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Family Code, No 002-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 August 2020, adopted on 23 September 2020. To extend the deadline by one more week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. I shall put the proposal to the vote. Voted 103 MPs: 98 against 1, abstention 4. The offer is accepted. We continue with the Draft Law on the ratification of the Statute of the International Network for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and the Statute of the Association of European Organizations for Promotion of Trade, No 002-02-15. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 11 September 2020. You have the floor for the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee Report, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u38	♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Statute of the International Network for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and the Statute of the Association of European Trade Promotion Organisations, No 002-02-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 September 2020. At its extraordinary meeting on 24 September 2020, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Statute of the International Network for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and the Statute of the Association of European Trade Promotion Organisations. The bill was presented by Yana Topalova "Deputy Minister of Economy." The international network for small and medium-sized enterprises aims to promote international cooperation, innovation partnership and technology transfer for small and medium-sized enterprises, public authorities, non-governmental organisations and chambers of commerce. The Executive Agency for the Promotion of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises is invited to join the President of the International Network for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises. With our membership in the organization, the Agency will have access to various international initiatives to promote small and medium-sized enterprises, good practices and the possibility of finding potential partners and financing. The Executive Agency for the Promotion of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises also participates in the Association of European Trade Promotion Organisations established as an autonomous structure by the European Commission and the European Trade Promotion Organisations. The main objective of the Association is to develop common positions of European organisations in carrying out their cooperation with the institutions of the European Union and national organisations to promote trade. The Statute of the International Network for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and of the Association of European Trade Promotion Organisations sets out criteria for membership, provides for annual membership fees, settlement of possible disputes between the parties through arbitration proceedings and others. The value of membership imports is up to 11 800 euros, which will be provided by the budget of the Ministry of Economy. After presenting and discussing the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above and on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the Draft for ratification of the Statute of the International Network for Small and Medium Enterprises and the Statute of the Association of European Trade Promotion Organizations, No 002-02-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 September 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u39	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. The report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Mrs. Saveklieva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Statute of the International Network for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and the Statute of the Association of European Trade Promotion Organisations, No 002-02-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 September 2020 At a meeting held on 24 September 2020, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. The bill was presented by Mrs. Yana Topalova, Deputy Minister of Economy. The Executive Agency for the Promotion of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises as the institution responsible for promoting the internationalisation of Bulgarian enterprises implements state policy in our country's quest for membership in the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (DCI) by actively participating in various international initiatives to promote small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). In this regard, the Executive Agency for the Promotion of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises maintains close contacts with partner organisations from Europe and third countries, as well as with international organisations. Such an organisation is also the International Network for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (INSME), which was established in 2000 as an initiative to support businesses during a OECD conference on SMEs and globalisation, held in Bologna, Italy. The mission of the International Network for SMEs is to promote international cooperation, public and private partnership in the field of innovation and technology transfer for SMEs, public authorities, international and non-governmental organisations and chambers of commerce. On the other hand, in the context of the membership of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union, the Executive Agency for the Promotion of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises is also actively involved in initiatives at European level, such as those of the European Commission and the European Trade Promotion Organisations, which established an independent structure in 2018 (the Association of European Trade Promotion Organisations), where the Executive Agency for the Promotion of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises took active participation. The Agency shall maintain close contacts, exchange up-to-date information and good practices with the newly established Association. The main objective of the Association of European Organisations for Trade Promotion is to build common positions of European organisations to promote trade in cooperation with the European Commission and other EU institutions and national trade promotion organisations. To this end, the current members of the Association are both government structures and non-governmental organizations. The value of membership imports to the International Network for SMEs and to the Association of European Organisations for Promotion of Trade per year is up to EUR 11 880 and will be financed by funds provided under the budget of the Ministry of Economy, respectively of the Executive Agency for Promotion of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises to the Minister of Economy of the Republic of Bulgaria for the relevant year. The accession of the Executive Agency for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises to the International Network for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and to the Association of European Trade Promotion Organisations should be carried out by ratification by the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Following the discussion of the draft, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: 21 votes for the draft budget and finance committee, without abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote the Draft for ratification of the Statute of the International Network for Small and Medium Enterprises and the Statute of the Association of European Organizations for Promotion of Trade, No 002-02-15, submitted on 11 September 2020 by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u41	Report from the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, Members of the National Assembly, I present: ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Statute of the International Network for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and the Statute of the Association of European Trade Promotion Organisations, No 002-02-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 September 2020. At its meeting on 30 September 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law on the ratification of the Statute of the International Network for Small and Medium Enterprises and the Statute of the Association of European Trade Promotion Organisations, No 002-02-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 September 2020. The meeting was attended by Mr. Boyko Takov, Executive Director of the Executive Agency for the Promotion of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises. Mr. Takov presented the Bill, pointing out that an invitation was sent to the Executive Agency for the Promotion of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (the Agency) by the President of the International Network for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises to join the Agency. The objectives of the International Network for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises include promoting international cooperation and financing, gathering, analysis and dissemination of good practices, facilitating the search for appropriate expertise and know-how, as well as access to new markets. With our accession to the international organisation, the Agency will have access to various international initiatives and good practices to promote small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as their technological development. He added that the Agency is also involved in initiatives of the European Commission, such as the Association of European Trade Promotion Organisations, whose aim is to build common positions on promoting trade in Europe, maintaining dialogue with political, economic and social institutions, organising conferences, seminars and events, as well as strengthening cooperation with the non-governmental sector. Mr. Takov explained that the value of membership imports to the International Network for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and the contribution to the Association of European Organizations for Promotion of Trade amounted to up to EUR 11 880, with the funds being provided under the budget of the Ministry of Economy. National Representative Alexander Ivanov took part in the discussion, noting that the membership of the Republic of Bulgaria in the two organizations will be beneficial and will not aggravate the budget. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 20 votes for the Council, without abstention and without abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the ratification of the Statute of the International Network for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and the Statute of the Association of European Organizations for Promotion of Trade, No 002-02-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 September 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u43	Thank you. Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I will put to the vote a bill for ratification of the Statute of the International Network for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and the Statute of the Association of European Trade Promotion Organisations, No 002-02-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers. They voted 111 MPs: 108, against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. You have the floor for procedure, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that the bill which we have just adopted for ratification of the Statute of the International Network for Small and Medium Enterprises and of the Statute of the Association of European Organizations for Promotion of Trade, No 002-02-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 September 2020, be adopted at a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u45	Thank you. I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 105 MPs: for 101, against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please provide the texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u46	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Statute of the International Network for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and the Statute of the Association of European Trade Promotion Organisations Art. 1. It ratifies the Statute of the International Network for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises of 18 February 2004. Art. 2. It ratifies the Statute of the Association of European Trade Promotion Organisations of 31 October 2018. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u47	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote: the name of the Law; the content of art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2; the name of the division All texts are by importer. They voted 107 MPs: for 107 against and abstentions there is no. The proposed texts have been adopted. Let's continue with: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR SUPERVISION AND THE LEARNERS WITH THE IMPORTER MINISTER'S COUNCIL. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova, to present the texts of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u48	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making a procedure for admission in the hall before this under the Refugee Act, on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please allow a procedure for admission to the hall of Mr. Daniel Indzhiev, Vice-President of the State Agency for Refugees.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u49	We are voting for admission in this House. They voted 109 MPs: 105, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u50	"Report on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Asylum and Refugees, No 002-01-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 July 2020, adopted at the first vote on 29 July 2020. The Law on Asylum and Refugees is amended and supplemented by the Law on Asylum and Refugees. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. According to § 1, there is a proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Krasimir Tsipov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In . (3) The provision of para. 2 shall also apply to organisations operating on the territory of the country on behalf of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, in accordance with an agreement concluded with the Republic of Bulgaria. According to § 2 there is a proposal of the MPs Anna Aleksandrova and Krasimir Tsipov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In the name of Chapter 3, the words "stop" and "stop" are deleted. According to § 3 there is a proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Krasimir Tsipov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12, para. 1 "4." which benefits from the protection or assistance of bodies or organisations of the United Nations other than the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, except where such protection or assistance has ceased and the situation of the person has not been established in accordance with the relevant United Nations resolution; that person may benefit from the privileges resulting from the 1951 Convention on the Status of Refugees;
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u51	Thank you. I open discussions on the proposal for the name of the Law and paragraphs first to third, including. Is there anyone who would like to speak? I can't see. We're putting an end to this debate. I put the name of the bill to the vote. They voted 109 MPs: 92, none, abstention 17. The proposal for the name has been accepted. I now vote on the Commission's amendments to paragraphs one to three, including. They voted 101 MPs: for 67, against none, abstention 34. Paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 have been adopted by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. According to § 4, there is a proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Krasimir Tsipov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) A new item shall be created. 14: It's 14 years old. comes from a third secure country, provided that it will be admitted to it; b) the current t. 14 becomes t. 15. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: . (2) A subsequent application for international protection, in which the foreigner does not refer to any new circumstances essential to his or her personal situation or to his or her country of origin, shall be assessed in accordance with Section III of Chapter Six. 3. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: . (3) In the application of para. 1, t. 13 shall be assessed whether the person has given serious reasons to believe that that State is not a secure country of origin in the light of its specific circumstances. 4. They're creating an al. 4 and 5. (4) The circumstances under para. 1, t. 14 may be a stand-alone basis for rejecting the application as clearly unfounded only if the following conditions are met: 1. there is a link between the foreigner and the third country concerned justifying his return in an individual security check in the country for the foreigner concerned; 2. a document has been made available to the foreigner in the language of the third secure country to inform its respective authorities that his application has not been examined in substance. In the absence of a foreigner to the territory of the third secure country, he shall be granted access to proceedings for granting international protection in the Republic of Bulgaria. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. According to § 6 there is a proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Krasimir Tsipov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... Article 15 is amended as Art. 15. (1) The proceedings for granting international protection shall be terminated where: 1. after due invitation the foreigner did not appear for an interview and for 30 days did not state objective reasons for his absence; 2. the foreigner cannot be found twice at his authorised address or at another address specified by him; 3. The foreigner changed his address without informing the State Agency for Refugees and within 30 days did not state objective reasons for this; 4. three or more times the foreigner refuses to assist the officials of the State Agency for Refugees in clarifying the circumstances associated with his request; 5. The foreigner withdrew his application for international protection; 6. the foreigner has international protection in another Member State of the European Union; 7. the foreigner received asylum from the President; 8. the foreigner dies; 9. regarding the foreigner there is an effective decision under art. 67c, para. 1, t. 1 allowing it to be transferred to another Member State of the European Union. (2) In the cases under para. 1, t. 1 "5" if there is sufficient evidence that the application for international protection is unfounded, the same shall be dealt with in accordance with art. 75. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8. According to § 9 there is a proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Krasimir Tsipov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9: ..................................................... Article 25 is amended as Art. 25. (1) Unaccompanied minor or minor foreigner seeking or receiving international protection located in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria shall be represented in the proceedings under this law by a lawyer entered in the Register of Legal Aid of the National Legal Aid Bureau designated by the Chair of the Office or by an official authorised by him. (2) The representative shall have the necessary knowledge in order to be able, in accordance with the principle of ensuring the best interest of the child, to assist the unaccompanied minor or minor foreigner to benefit from his or her rights and to carry out his or her duties laid down in this law. The representative may not be a person whose interests are conflicted or may be in conflict with the interests of the unaccompanied minor or minor foreigner. (3) The representative of a minor foreigner seeking or receiving international protection shall have the following powers in the proceedings under this law until the age of the person: 1. to take care of its legal interests in the procedures for granting international protection until their completion by an effective decision; 2. to represent it in front of all administrative bodies, including social, health, educational and other institutions in the Republic of Bulgaria, in order to protect the best interest of the child; 3. act as procedural representative in all proceedings before the administrative and judicial authorities. (4) The powers under para. 3 shall be terminated in respect of an unaccompanied minor or minor who has received protection: 1. when gathered in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria with a parent, guardian or guardian; 2. when he has received special representation and care under the order of the Family Code; 3. for whom guardianship or legal custody has arisen under the order of the Family Code. (5) The unaccompanied minor or minor foreigner shall be informed immediately of his designated representative under para. 1. The representative shall be replaced only in the event of inability to fulfil his obligations or in the event of a conflict of interest. (6) The representative shall explain to the unaccompanied minor or minor foreigner the proceedings on the application for international protection, inform him of his rights and obligations, the meaning and consequences of the personal interview and how to prepare him. (7) The representative shall be present during the interview with the unaccompanied minor or minor foreigner to whom he is able to ask questions made by the interviewing authority and to provide considerations relating to the application for protection and to the administrative proceedings carried out.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u53	I open the debate on paragraphs 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? There aren't any. I'm calling off the debate. I shall put to the vote § 4 in the version of the Commission; § 5 by importer; § 6 by the proposed version of the Commission; paragraphs 7 and 8 by importer; § 9 by version of the Commission. They voted 114 MPs: 86, none, abstention 28. Paragraphs 4 to 9 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u54	According to § 10 there is a proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Krasimir Tsipov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10: ..................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 25a: Art. 25a. (1) The territorial units of the State Agency for Refugees shall provide the necessary conditions of admission for minors seeking international protection. (2) The State Agency for Child Protection shall monitor and monitor the conditions of admission in the territorial divisions of the State Agency for Refugees for the respect of the rights of minors seeking international protection and the non-violence of physical and mental violence, cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12. Under § 13, there is a proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov, made in accordance with Article 13. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 32 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 1: (1) A foreigner with international protection shall have the right to reside in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period of validity of the Bulgarian personal documents issued to him. 2. Previously on AMC's... 1 and 2 become respectively. Two and three. 3. Previously on AMC's... 3 and 4 are cancelled. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14. Under § 15 there is a proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov, made in accordance with Article 15. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 42 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 1 and 2: (1) The refugee card shall certify the identity of the person and the right of the holder to reside in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period of its validity. (2) The card of a foreigner with humanitarian status shall certify the identity of the person and the right of the holder to reside in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period of its validity. 2. Previously on AMC's... 1 and 2 become respectively. Three and four. 3. The creation of para. 5. . (5) To a foreigner with granted international protection who does not apply for new identification documents under para. 1 and 2 in cases and within the term referred to in Article 2. 63a, para. 2 of the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, proceedings for withdrawal or termination of granted international protection may be initiated if the foreigner does not provide evidence that he had objective reasons for non-compliance with his obligation. According to § 16 there is a proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Krasimir Tsipov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 48, para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 words.............................................................................. 17, para. The information referred to in 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 the words "stop" and "stop" are deleted. 3. Point 10 is amended as follows: ..10. appoint officials from the State Agency for Refugees for Interviewing Bodies to carry out the actions provided for in this Act; 4. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 11 the words "with material and financial means of foreigners seeking or receiving international protection" shall be replaced by "as part of the material conditions for the admission of foreigners seeking international protection lodged in the territorial divisions of the State Agency for Refugees." The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 51, para. 2 words.............................................................................. 29, para. 4 and para. 7 seven is replaced by two. 29, para. 4 and 9 The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18. According to § 19 there is a proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Krasimir Tsipov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, in the text prior to that. 1 after the word According to § 20 there is a proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Krasimir Tsipov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20: § 20. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 58 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 2. A new para is being created. 9. A non-accompanied minor or minor foreigner shall be notified without delay of the possibility of having an age-based expertise carried out on him. 3. So far, the Al. 9 becomes para. 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u55	I shall open the deliberations referred to in paragraphs 10 to 20. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote § 10 in the version of the Commission; paragraphs 11 and 12 by importer; § 13 by importer; § 14 by importer; § 15 by version of the Commission; § 16 and § 17 also in the version of the Commission; § 18 by importer; paragraphs 19 and 20 by text proposed by the Commission. They voted 118 MPs: 92, none, abstention 26. Paragraphs 10 to 20 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u56	Under § 21, there is a proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Krasimir Tsipov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 21 which is reflected in its systematic place in a new § 22. The Commission proposes the following version of § 21: .................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 61 para. 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 are repealed. There is a proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Krasimir Tzipov to create a new § 21. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 3 is replaced by the following: 61a: Art. 61a. (1) The foreigner who applied for international protection shall be registered with the State Agency for Refugees and a personal case shall be opened to him. The registration shall be made no later than three working days after the submission of the application, unless the time limit under art. 58, para. 4. (2) Where reasonable doubt arises that the foreigner is not a minor or a minor, the interviewing authority shall appoint expertise to establish his age after prior informed consent of the foreigner or his representative. The foreigner shall be provided with information on the method of carrying out the expertise and possible consequences of the outcome of the examination of the application for international protection, including in the event of refusal of such expertise. Refusal of the foreigner to have his expertise cannot be an independent basis for rejecting his application for international protection. (3) If after the examination under para. 2 There are still doubts about the age of the candidate, the same is assumed to be a minor. (4) Expertise under para. 2 shall be carried out in full respect of human dignity by choosing at least invasive means of examination and being carried out by a qualified medical professional, which gives the most opportunity for a reliable result. (5) When reasonable doubt arises that the foreigner cannot take care of his affairs due to lack of mind or mental illness, the interviewing authority shall appoint psychiatric expertise. (6) When examining the application for international protection at the discretion of the interviewing authority, the opinion of an expert on certain matters relating to medical, psychological, cultural or religious aspects, with children or gender may be requested. (7) The interviewing authority may request that a medical examination of the alien be carried out with his consent in relation to traces that may be of past persecution or serious harm. Refusal of a foreigner from conducting a medical examination is not an obstacle to a decision. The medical examination may also be carried out at the initiative of the foreigner and on his behalf. Under § 22, there is a proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Krasimir Tsipov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 22, which shall become § 23: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 63 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: . (3) Accurate and up-to-date information relating to the general situation in the country of origin of the foreigner may be collected from different sources, including foreigners, Bulgarian or foreign authorities themselves, natural or legal persons themselves, the European Asylum Support Office, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, international organisations for the protection of human rights. 2. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: . (4) The provision and/or disclosure of information to entities suspected of committing persecution or serious abuse in respect of foreigners seeking or receiving international protection and information on the application shall not be permitted. 3. A new para is being created. 5. . (5) No information shall be collected from entities suspected of pursuing or seriously invading foreigners seeking or receiving international protection in such a way as to disclose information about the submission of an application or information which may jeopardise the physical integrity of the applicant or his dependents or the freedom and security of his family members who still live in his home country. 4. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6. Under § 23 there is a proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Krasimir Tsipov: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 63a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 4. (4) During the interview the applicant shall be given the opportunity to provide explanations relating to incompleteness, discrepancies or contradictions in his claims. 2. Previously on AMC's... 4, 5, 6 and 7 become respectively. 5, 6, 7 and 8. 3. So far, the Al. 8 becomes para. 9 and amended as follows: At the end of the interview, the protocol shall be read to the foreigner who may comment on it and provide clarification regarding translation errors or inaccurate statements. The protocol shall be signed by the foreigner, the translator, the translator, and the interviewing authority respectively. 4. So far, the Al. 9 becomes para. 10. 5. So far, the Al. 10 becomes para. 11 and amended as follows: During the interview, the legal representative and/or lawyer of the foreigner may be present, who may present observations at the end of the interview. The absence of an attorney is not an obstacle to conducting a personal interview. 6. Previously on AMC's... 11 and 12 become respectively. 12 and 13. Under § 24, there is a proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Krasimir Tsipov: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24, which shall become § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 67a The following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 2: (a) c. 1 the word "supplier' is replaced by "supplier'; (b) point 3 is repealed. 2. Allinea 3 is canceled. Under § 25, there is a proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Krasimir Tsipov: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 25 be rejected. Under § 26, there is a proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Krasimir Tsipov: The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 67c is amended as follows: Art. 67c. (1) After carrying out a verification of the evidence, sending an inquiry for taking responsibility or for taking back and receiving a reply from the requested Member State of the European Union, the decision body shall: 1. take a decision authorising the transfer of the foreigner to the responsible Member State of the European Union; 2. take a decision refusing the transfer of the foreigner to the responsible Member State of the European Union. (2) The decision under para. 1 shall be served in accordance with Article 1. 76. (3) In the cases under para. 1, t. 1 The foreigner shall enjoy the rights under art. 29, para. 1, t. 1, 2, 3 and 8 until the transfer to the Member State responsible is carried out. Under § 27, there is a proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Krasimir Tsipov: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 27: "The Bible says: Article 67d is amended as follows: Art. 67 C.E. (1) The State Agency for Refugees together with the relevant authority of the State responsible for examining the application shall determine the place, date and time of arrival of the foreigner in its territory. (2) The transfer of the foreigner shall be carried out in accordance with the decision under art. 67c, para. 1, t. 1. (3) Where the transfer has not taken place, the State Agency for Refugees shall determine with the relevant authority of the State responsible for examining the application a new date of transfer. Under § 28 there is a proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Krasimir Tsipov: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 Article 67e is amended as follows: Art. 67e. (1) Upon receipt of a request for liability or for the readmission of a foreigner from another Member State of the European Union and after verification of the evidence, the decision body shall send a reply to the requesting State. (2) When it is established that the Republic of Bulgaria is the competent State for examining the application for international protection of a foreigner, the State Agency for Refugees together with the relevant authority of the Sending State shall determine the place, date and time of arrival of the foreigner. The transfer of the foreigner to the Republic of Bulgaria shall take place within the time limits laid down in Regulation (EU) No 604/2013. (3) In the cases under para. 2 The State Agency for Refugees informs the Ministry of Interior that a foreigner will be accepted in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria whose proceedings for granting international protection has ended with a decision of refusal entered into force. Under § 29, there is a proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Krasimir Tsipov: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 29: ........................ 29...................................................... Article 67f is amended as follows: Art. 67f. (1) Where a foreigner is admitted to the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria in accordance with a positive response on a request for taking responsibility, art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 2. (2) Where a foreigner is admitted to the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria in accordance with a positive response on a request for readmission, art. 77, para. 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32. According to § 33 there is a proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Krasimir Tsipov: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 33: ................................................ In Chapter Six, the name of Section II is hereby amended as follows:
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. I shall open the deliberations referred to in paragraphs 21 to 33. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote: the wording of Paragraph 21 by the version of the Commission; the wording of § 22 new; the wording of § 22, which shall become § 23 by the version of the Commission; the wording of § 24 by the version of the Commission; the wording of Paragraph 24 by the version of the Commission; the rejection of Paragraph 25 by the importer; the texts of paragraphs 26, 27, 28 and 29 by the version of the Commission; the texts of paragraphs 30, 31 and 32 by importer; and the wording of Paragraph 33 by the version of the Commission. They voted 99 MPs: 84, none, abstention 15. Paragraphs 21 to 33 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u58	Under § 34 there is a proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Krasimir Tsipov: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 34: ................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 68 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1, in the text before t. 1 the words "in general order' shall be replaced by "in order to provide international protection'. 2. In para. 2 the words defined as being responsible or being taken back by a foreigner shall be replaced by the assumed responsibility. Under § 35 there is a proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Krasimir Tsipov: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 35: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 70 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: . (1) In the case of grounds under art. 13, para. 1 within 14 working days of the registration of the foreigner, the interviewing authority may apply accelerated proceedings by deciding to reject the application as clearly unfounded. 2. In para. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 3. In para. 5 words. The following points are inserted after point 6 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 36. According to § 37 there is a proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Krasimir Tsipov: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 37: ...... 37........................................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 74 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1 and in it, the words "in the general order" shall be replaced by "for the provision of international protection." 2. They're creating an al. 2 and 3: At the request of the interviewing authority, the President of the State Agency for Refugees may extend the term under para. 1 with not more than 9 months, in the following cases: 1. in the case of complex factual and/or material matters; 2. when a large number of foreigners simultaneously seek international protection, which makes it difficult to make a decision. (3) The foreigner shall be informed of the reasons and period in person or by a return message. Under § 38 "Contributor text'. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 38: ....................... 38........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 75 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1, in the text before t. 1 the words "common order proceedings' shall be replaced by the procedure for granting international protection. 2. In para. 3 words................................................................................. The following points are inserted 3. Allinea 4 is canceled. Under § 39, there is a proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Krasimir Tsipov: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 39: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 76 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. The first sentence shall be replaced by the first sentence. 2. In para. The first sentence is amended as follows: The service shall be certified by signatures of the foreigner and of the translator, respectively to the translator and to the official. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 40. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 41: ............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 76b, para. 1, in the text before t. 1 after the words Under § 42, there is a proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Krasimir Tsipov: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 42: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 76c, para. 1 words.............................................................................. 29, para. 1, t. Art. 8, Art. Article 29a 58, para. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the Under § 43 there is a proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Krasimir Tsipov: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 43: ..................................................... In Chapter 6, in the first sentence of Section IV, the words "Stop and end" shall be replaced by "Currency" and "Currency." Under § 44, there is a proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Krasimir Tsipov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 44: ..................................................... Article 77 is amended as follows: Art. 77. (1) Where the grounds under art. 15, para. 1. The President of the State Agency for Refugees shall decide to terminate the proceedings for granting international protection. (2) Production terminated on any of the grounds under art. 15, para. 1, t. 1? 4 is considered to be resumed if the foreigner appears within 9 months of termination and wishes his request for protection to be examined. Production can only be resumed once. (3) In cases of readmission under art. 67e, para. 2 The proceedings shall be deemed resumed when the foreigner requests that the examination of his request be completed. The examination of the application shall be renewed from the stage at which the proceedings were initiated. According to § 45 there is a proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Krasimir Tsipov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 45: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 78 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: (1) The proceedings for the withdrawal or termination of granted international protection shall be initiated in the event of new data giving rise to a review of the refugee status or humanitarian status granted. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: . (2) The foreigner shall be notified by a letter with a return receipt of the proceedings, the reasons for that and the date and place of the interview during which he may state his objections to the withdrawal or termination of international protection. 3. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: . (3) The foreigner shall be informed that, if he is unable to personally attend the upcoming interview, he may send a written objection within the time limit set by the administrative authority and to the address indicated. 4. In para. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 46. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 47. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 48. Under § 49, there is a proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Krasimir Tsipov. The Commission supports the proposal. [[Noise and lines.]] The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 49: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 84 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: (1) The decision under art. 67c, para. 1 can be appealed within 7 days of his service before the Administrative Court of Sofia through the authority which issued the decision. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: . (2) The decisions referred to in art. 51, para. Art. 2, Art. 70, para. Art. 1, art. 76b, para. 1, t. Art. 2 and Art. 2 77, para. 1 may be appealed within 7 days of their service to the administrative court on the present address of the registration card of the foreigner. 3. A new para is being created. 3, 4 and 5: . (3) The decisions referred to in art. 34, para. Art. 3, Art. 39a, para. Art. 2, Art. 75, para. 1, t. Art. 2 and 4 and art. 82, para. 2 may be appealed within 14 days of their service to the administrative court at the current address of the registration card of the foreigner. [[Noise and lines.]] (4) The decision under art. 78, para. 5 may be appealed within 14 days of its service to the administrative court at the permanent address of the foreigner. (5) The appeal shall be lodged by the authority which issued the decision and shall suspend its execution. [[Noise and lines.]] 4. The creation of para.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u59	Please be quiet! We're entering the most interesting part of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u60	In the event of appeal of the decision under art. 76b, para. 1, t. 2 the court shall rule at the request of the foreigner or in office on the right of the asylum seeker to remain in the territory of the country until the appeal is given. 5. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 7. 6. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 8 and in its sentence the second sentence is deleted. 7. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 9. According to § 50 there is a proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Krasimir Tsipov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 50: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 85 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. In these cases, the Parties shall be replaced by the Parties. 2. Alinea 2 is canceled. 3. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: s (3) the decisions of the administrative court under art. 84, para. 1 and 2 are not subject to a cassation appeal. 4. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: (4) The decisions of the administrative court under art. 84, para. 3 and 4 are subject to a cassation appeal. 5. The creation of para. 5. s (5) Where the administrative court revokes the contested decision of the administrative authority and returns the file with binding instructions for a new decision on the application for protection and has not set a time limit for issuing the new administrative act, the President of the State Agency for Refugees shall be obliged to take a new decision within three months.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u61	I shall open the deliberations referred to in paragraphs 34 to 50 inclusive. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote § 34 and § 35 in the version of the Commission; § 36 by importer; paragraphs 37 to 39 including the version of the Commission; § 40 by importer; paragraphs 41, 42, 43, 44 and 45 in the version of the Commission; paragraphs 46, 47 and 48 by importer; § 49 and § 50 in the version of the Commission. They voted 103 MPs: for 83, against none, abstention 20. Paragraphs 34 to 50 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u62	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 51. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 52. According to § 53, there is a proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Krasimir Tsipov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 53: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Paragraph 1 of the additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 point (d) shall be replaced by the parents, guardian or guardian. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 the words "parent or other adult responsible for it by law or custom" shall be replaced by "parent," guardian or guardian." 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 6 the words "and the foreigner has not left the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria" shall be replaced by "to reject the application." 4. They're creating a t. 18 and 19: 18. A refugee status means the recognition by the Republic of Bulgaria of a third-country national or stateless person as a refugee. 19. "Humanitarian status" means the recognition by the Republic of Bulgaria of a third-country national or a stateless person as eligible for humanitarian status. Proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Krasimir Tsipov for the creation of a new division. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish an additional provision. Proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Krasimir Tsipov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 54: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Directive 2013/32/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on common procedures for granting and withdrawing international protection (OJ L 180/60, 29 June 2013) and Directive 2013/33/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 laying down standards on the acceptance of applicants for international protection (OB, L 180/96 of 29 June 2013) .?.......................................................................................................... According to § 54 there is a proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Krasimir Tsipov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 54 be rejected. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. Proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Krasimir Tsipov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 55: ........... 55....................................................................... The proceedings initiated until the entry into force of this law are completed in the current order. According to § 55 there is a proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Krasimir Tsipov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 55, which shall become § 56: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 41 t. 4 is amended as follows: "4." as regards the foreigner, a decision on the refusal, termination or revocation of international protection or asylum has entered into force; a return is required after written confirmation by the State Agency for Refugees and if the proceedings under the Asylum and Refugees Act have ceased with an effective decision and the foreigner has not requested the examination of his application to be completed; According to § 56 there is a proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Krasimir Tsipov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 56, which shall become § 57: ...... 57............................................................... The regulation under art. 67k shall be implemented in accordance with the provisions of this Law within 6 months of its entry into force. According to § 57 there is a proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Krasimir Tsipov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for § 57 but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in a new § 55.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u63	Thank you. I shall open the deliberations under paragraphs 51 to 57, including the supplementary provision and the "Transitional and final provisions'. You have the floor to speak. I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote § 51 and § 52 by importer; § 53 in the version of the Commission; the name of a new Chamber of Commerce; an additional provision; a new § 54; § 54 by importer; the name of the Board of Directors; a moveable and final provisions; a new § 55; § 55 by importer which becomes § 56 by text which has given the version to the Commission; § 56, which becomes § 57 in the version of the Commission; and the rejection of § 57 by importer. Vote 95 MPs: 77, against none, abstention 18. The proposed texts have been adopted. With this we have just completed the adoption of the Law on Asylum and Refugees. Let us congratulate our colleagues Anna Alexandrova and Krasimir Tsipov on the responsible and serious work they have done by literally rewriting the entire Law again. Let's say hello! [[Applause from GERB.]] Moving on to the next item on the agenda: ANNUAL REPORT ON THE ACTION OF NATIONAL HEALTH AND HEALTH CACUS 2018 There's an opinion from the Health Committee. Mrs. Daritkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u64	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! "COMMODITY" on the Annual Activity Report of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2018, No 902-00-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019. At its regular meeting on 26 September 2019, the Health Committee examined the Annual Activity Report of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2018, No 902-00-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019. The meeting was attended by: Deputy Minister of Health and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund Mrs. Zheny Nacheva, Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund Dr. Decho Dechev and other guests. The report in question was presented by Mrs. Women Nacheva Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund. During the reporting period, the structural units in the Central Management of the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) and in the secondary authorising officers of a lower degree (RHIF) have fulfilled their functional obligations in accordance with relevant European and national legislation and with the intra-administrative acts of the National Health Insurance Fund. The functioning of the system shall be implemented in accordance with the requirements for strict compliance with budgetary discipline, proper coordination and subordination of administrative activity and the legality of processes in the electronic reporting of the activities of contractual partners. The preventive role of the control activity carried out in 2018 has taken into account a positive impact, which is expressed in a stricter implementation of the algorithms of clinical pathways, improving the quality of medical activity and the work in keeping the documentation and organisation in medical institutions. The report under consideration is structured into five main parts, each containing its components. Central is the part of the National Health Insurance Fund, which includes: hospital medical care, outpatient medical and dental care, medicinal products, medical devices and control of prescription and release, European issues and coordination of social security systems and other functional directions. As of 31 December 2018, the total number of hospital care contractors, contractual partners of the National Health Insurance Fund, is 368. Of them 316 are hospitals for hospital care, 39 are medical institutions for specialized outpatient medical care and 13 are dialysis centers. The largest number of clinical pathways in 2018 were agreed in the Sofia Health Insurance Fund and the Regional Health Insurance Fund. During the reporting period 13 246 outpatient medical and dental aid contracts were concluded, at 13 210 for the same period of 2017. The insurance with general practitioners for 2018 is maintained at the level of the previous year, the average for the country is one doctor of 1690 health insured persons. As a durable indicator during the reporting and previous periods, the increase in costs for medicinal products due to the entry of innovative, costly drug therapies with the inclusion of new international non-proprietary names in the list of medicinal products intended for the treatment of diseases paid under the Health Insurance Act. The entry of generic medicinal products and the reduction of prices cannot compensate for the rate of increase in costs for new, expensive medicinal products. Statistically, there is a trend of increase in the number of incoming applications, respectively permissions to carry out scheduled treatment at the expense of the National Health Insurance Fund in EU countries. During the reporting period, a total of 609 authorisations were granted for planning treatment in countries of the European Union with an S2 form for persons above and below 18 years under the European Regulations for the Coordination of Social Security Systems. The highest number of authorisations for scheduled treatment were issued for Germany, France and Austria. During the reporting period of the total number of S2 forms issued for scheduled treatment in foreign healthcare establishments in the European Union, files received under the Center for the Treatment of Children are issued a total of 256 forms. The highest number of authorisations for scheduled treatment of children were issued for Germany, France and Austria. In accordance with the established rules, authorisation to carry out scheduled treatment in another European Union country shall be granted when treatment options are exhausted in the territory of Bulgaria or in the foreign country a method, apparatus, medicine, presence of specialists missing in the country is proposed. As an institution established by law to carry out compulsory health insurance and in 2018, the National Health Insurance Fund continues to work in full transparency, putting the patient at the heart of its activities and its needs. On the basis of the discussion held and the vote taken with 12 votes for the National Health Insurance Fund, 4 votes against the National Health Insurance Fund, and 2 votes abstentions, the Committee on Health shall propose to the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision adopting the Annual Report on the activity of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2018, No 902-00-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. I'm opening the debate on the report. Here you go, Mrs. Jaffer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u66	Dear colleagues of the ruling majority! It is surprising that your stubbornness to consistently ignore the accounts of the National Health Insurance Fund. For years from the National Assembly's stand, when you have nothing to discuss, by filling the agenda, you only submit the Report on the activity of the Health Insurance Fund, we have made comments to you that this report, this report must go along, necessarily with the report on the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, that is, the money of the Health Insurance Fund, the health insured persons. Ignoring the important topic of spending nearly 4 billion. lv. of Bulgarian health-insured citizens is an extremely serious problem. You have made a tradition examining these two reports separately. We strongly object to this! What could be discussed in depth today is written in the two reports, and what should be the subject of serious discussion are the trends in Bulgarian healthcare. Nimah 4 billion. lv. are not worth paying enough attention to them from the Committee on Budget and Finance and from the Bulgarian National Assembly? 2018 is actually the year in which we gave 407 million more in the budget of the Health Insurance Fund than the previous year. Can't we now and we don't want to ask how this money was spent? What are the indicators that have been improved? Why Bulgaria continues to be at the top of the expected average mortality rate and the lowest expected life expectancy? What are the indicators that we changed by giving these funds? The National Assembly voted on the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, the National Assembly elects the managers of this Health Insurance Fund to be single, monopolistic, and should be interested in what happens in this institution, how this money is spent. In 2018, there are trends that are categorical, and they are clear. The most serious trend is the deepening imbalances in the healthcare system. The fact is that 33% of hospital care funds go to private-owned hospitals and hospitals, which are 100% state-owned, receive 28% of all the money we give. Those with state and municipal property, the district hospitals receive 18% of these funds, and the municipal hospitals only 15%. This is a trend that deepens over the years, a trend that can be followed in the next 2019 report. Another trend deepened in 2018. In case of unpaid and payable 285 million. lv. For treatment abroad of Bulgarian citizens who have been treated in foreign hospitals, 73 million are at stake. lv. in this budget. The question remains as to what is happening to the 160 million that have been paid at this time. lv.? From what we see as behavior and attitude towards these reports, these are clearly not topics that are important to the National Assembly. I will quote you a statement of opinion from one of the employers' organizations at this time: the collapse of municipal health care, the collapse of municipal hospitals and the headline of which reads: The state of the legal framework is close to absolute chaos.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u67	Anything on the Father, Dr. Jaffer? On the annual report itself?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u68	Yeah, I'm talking to the Father right now. Please don't interrupt me!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u69	I'd just advise you to get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u70	The situation of the legal framework is close to absolute chaos! Dear colleagues, is the National Assembly relevant to this state of health? Obviously, yes, because the unpredictability in the regulation is also a trend, and we have contributed to this. In fact, in 2018, as at present, the problems are preserved, and they are that there is no single information system. This is found and written in this report, there are no elements of e-health, no analytical unit to do any analysis of trends at all, to point out the problems and to seek their solution, there is insufficient means of prevention, something more in the next report, it is also seen that preventive reviews are also being reduced. This trend, honourable Members, is deepening especially now during the pandemic. These beginnings, however, are still at that time. I conclude by calling for you to reconsider your behaviour of ignoring the legislator's efforts to deal with health problems in general, not in pieces. The accounts of the Health Insurance Fund cannot be used to fill the agenda when you do not know what to fill this agenda of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u71	Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Mihailov. I hope you'll be more specific about the Father.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of my speech, I address you personally, with all due respect, to tell you that the speeches we are making at the moment, and which the honourable Dr. Jaffer has made, are on a fragment of the governing policy of the ruling coalition, which is particularly important to the social work of health protection, which has gained a very significant part of the state budget. A very significant part! You know very well that this is true for 2018 and 2019 and 2020 and therefore for us as politicians, Mr President, it is very important the principle position of individual political parties, of individual political forces in the spending of these funds. Your experience is as punctual as you are, and wish to be asked to insert the debate only in commentary on the figures of the Father is not appropriate in this case, as it is a policy of governance in an area which concerns every Bulgarian citizen. I therefore ask you not to interrupt me by starting your speech, as you allowed yourself to interrupt Dr. Jeffer, which was inappropriate for me, and to allow me to develop the thesis of our political power in terms of both this report and the next. It was no accident that I approached you most respectfully with the desire to offer you the two reports to be commented in general in the speeches, but you, following your rules as chairman of the sitting, did not agree.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u73	That's why you chose me, Dr. Mihailov...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u74	Yeah, that's why we picked you. Of course, you have the right to a subjective opinion...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u75	...to follow the rules and when there is a diversion from the matter, I am obliged to pay attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u76	When we return to the assessment of the activities of the Casa, and Dr. Jeffer was absolutely right that in discussing this issue many important things are missing, I can tell you all, and you, Mr. Chairman, who are the main ones we are against and why our parliamentary group could not support this report. During these years, all these four years of existence of the Bulgarian Parliament, the BSP parliamentary group stood with all its authority and expertise before you as MPs and said that now the existing system of management and financing of health care, which is reflected in the activities of the National Health Insurance Fund, which consumes over 80% of the funds in the health care of the state budget, is the most important thing that needs to be changed. Your minister first stood in this room, announced and admitted that the system was sick, but for four years this system of yotah hasn't changed. The health budget has grown by almost a billion, will already grow to a billion in these four years, and the effect of this increase in the budget is negligible in the Bulgarian citizens' idea, in their trust in the Bulgarian healthcare system. Three are the main factors that have not changed in the policy of carrying out the activity of the Cashier during the year, which is quoted by the reading report and which make the most impression. First of all, what the World Bank has addressed to us in two major meetings with the participation of the World Bank and the World Health Organization is that the ratio of hospital and hospital care has not changed, respectively funds that are being spent from the budget, and we have been given the attention that Bulgaria is still located, in the first place in the number of hospitals per capita throughout the European Union. Secondly, something that was also presented at the beginning of the life of the Forty-fourth National Assembly by the BSP is that the assessment of the expenditure of these funds, which is done through a detailed economic assessment of the individual clinical pathways and the work of medical professionals was also not carried out both in this report we are now discussing and at all during these four years. Thirdly, the ratio between drug spending and hospital activity is explicitly discussed in a negative light in terms of increasing drug spending. He who knows the evolution of modern health knows what the successes of modern clinical medicine are. They are based on all invasive and non-invasive methods of treatment, and a major part of non-invasive methods of treatment are medicines. So to comment as a negative trend the increase in the consumption of medicines is improbable, unprofessional and unsatisfied in front of the hall. Last but not least, what the colleague before me drew attention to, this is the serious situation with the financing of hospital care, what was also presented by the Organization of general practitioners, what was stated in all discussions and the budget, and the Father of the National Health Insurance Fund, that the balance between hospital and hospital care and its funding was not changed at all in this year, which is quoted at the moment in the Father, but at all in these four years. In all of this, to vote silently and as it has been said here successfully: by filling the time of the meetings with the wailing of the majority, the Reaper of the Fund, this is unacceptable for us and we will not support this report. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u77	Thank you. At some point, these reports have to be accepted. Are there any other statements? Oh, my God, let's get to the point, not general politics. Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u78	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! You know that each organization, in order to be able to carry out its activities, must have administrative capacity and the necessary financial resources. I am going to start from the back to the back, what are the figures for 2018 according to the National Health Insurance Fund? For medicines, medical devices, dietary foods, home treatment, as well as for hospital treatment of malignancy, 120 million were spent. $800,000. lv. Compared to the previous 2017 we have an increase of 12.8%. At the same time, 20 million. lv. is VAT in this amount. Dear colleagues, you know that under the VAT Act the medicines are not a freed deal. This reminds us once again that there is a potential reserve of public financial resources hidden in VAT, a resource that can, when making a political decision, remain in medical institutions and be used for medical activities. Secondly, in terms of administrative capacity. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance and maintenance of equipment and equipment necessary for the maintenance of buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, On the other hand, the current expenditure incurred in this paragraph for external services is more than 53%. However, at the same time, 5 million. lv. Only one million. Six hundred thousand. BGN, i.e. around 68% were spent on the acquisition of non-financial assets. What's the bottom line? Dear Members of Parliament, the administrative capacity of the National Health Insurance Fund is deteriorating. What and how we do from now on depends not only on us the opposition, but mainly on the government.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. Are there lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I expected that the other parliamentary parties will also take account of the reports of the activities of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2018 and 2019, but, alas, there is no desire for this. It's probably not interesting...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u81	For 2019, we haven't started yet.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u82	...what has happened for these two years in carrying out the tasks that the National Health Insurance Fund has set up and for which it has been designated. From the beginning, in the preamble to the two reports it is written in the vision that the institution of the National Health Insurance Fund is directly related to the improvement and implementation of effective measures to ensure free access and quality treatment of health insured persons to medical and dental aid and so on. Both reports that the Cashier will work to improve the quality and accessibility of medical care in Bulgaria conclude in a similar version. For the quality of medical care, I will not give an opinion. The opinion here was given by the Bulgarian people. Traditionally, there is a negative attitude towards the health system: 63% of them do not approve of the trends in the management of the health system; 53% are not satisfied with healthcare; 43% is the main problem of the high additional payment of medicines and other medical services, and 40% is the additional payment of medicines. For dental help, judge by the toothless status of people from villages and small settlements.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u83	Is that for 2018? Sorry to interrupt.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u84	Whether I talk about 2018 or 2019, there are no changes in health care and system management. For access, a large part of the Bulgarian population is experiencing difficulty or has no access to medical care. The fact that Bulgarians can easily go to the general practitioner or to be consulted by a medical professional does not mean that this is good and fast access. The financial situation of a large part of the Bulgarian population does not allow access to an elementary medical service. Dear colleagues, it shows that the way to spend and the public resources is not interesting for the National Assembly. But what can we expect from a system that is not reformed when hospitals are commercial companies operating without accepted medical standards in many disciplines when they are financed only through clinical pathways? A system that opposes medical specialists to doctors and doctors to patients. A system in which much of the distribution of public resources from its budget is for a greater share of hospital treatment and medicines at the expense of disease prevention and prevention. We here, as opposition, have repeatedly proposed a public discussion, and we have insisted in this National Assembly that hospitals are not commercial companies, to drop the clinical pathways, to make a new Health Card and management and funding to be distributed on a regional basis. Making an electronic health card...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u85	Mr. Timchev, go back to the essence of the discussed point.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u86	...the negotiation of medicinal products to be centralised by the Ministry of Health. This will also reduce the price of medicinal products. Dear colleagues, the public expects reasonable solutions from us. It is evident that the time for reforming health care is ripe. If it doesn't happen, there's nothing good waiting for either doctors and medical professionals or patients.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u87	Once again, I pay attention to the honourable Members that we are not discussing a healthcare strategy. We're discussing a specific report. [[Noise and lines.]] Here you go, procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u88	Dear Mr. Chairman, I take to the manner of conduct. I disagree on the comments you make to the speeches. The National Health Insurance Fund is not an ATM and the Report is not a list of expenditures and revenues to discuss only this. You know very well that the National Health Insurance Fund is the material provision of health policy. There's no way when we're looking at the National Health Insurance Fund for the years, we don't have to evaluate what's being achieved with the money that's being spent there, what's being impious about this thing. That's politics. We are not an audit organisation to assess costs and revenues. We are the ones who give an assessment of the spending policy of these funds... whether this policy is right and what needs to be done in order to really have a good health system in Bulgaria. So please don't interrupt the speakers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u89	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. I repeat in my law, which gives me the Rules, very little time in two minutes, but I repeat that we are not discussing either a strategy or a common health policy. We have a specific point. If you wish to discuss politics, submit a request for discussion, for consideration, for debate. The Minister of Health can also be invited, and then you can talk like this. Excuse me, as the host, I can tell you that of all four speeches only one was the essence of Mrs. Naydenova's point of view. And I'm here to follow the rules. That's why you chose me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u90	Dear Mr. Chairman, I will be absolutely brief. My fellow Members, I think it is absolutely pointless to look at the National Health Insurance Fund's activity report without looking at the budget. I would like to ask, perhaps rhetorically, how long has this report of the Health Insurance Fund not been filed for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u91	Thank you. Are there lines? No. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u92	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would agree with Mr. Simeonov that we should have more specifics. Yes, today I'd like to have a discussion. But who should we have a discussion with? The people who are responsible for this activity and who should have prepared the Testimonial for the activity of the Cashier are gone. The manager of the National Health Insurance Fund and the Chair of the Supervisory Board. So, Mr. Simeonov, I am not interested in your opinion or the opinion of a fellow MP. I am interested in those people who have done this work, and today they are not in the Chamber. What specific discussion should we have? Dear colleagues, today we are discussing the Fund's activity report in 2018. This was that report, that Health Insurance Fund Budget Act, which led the then Minister of Health to say that the funding model for our health system was exhausted and a new one must be made, for which he proposed several options which came to a pompous presentation in the National Palace of Culture, with which the issue ended. That is, the then Minister of Health disagreed with the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund and the rules for its formation. I too will be brief, as Mr. Simeonov advised us. I have a specific question. With this budget for 2018, we put a steel armor on the activities of municipal hospitals because we said that they could work not according to the rules of medical standards, but according to the rules of the Casa. A specific example. In an area called Blagoevgrad, the activity of one of the medical activities and trails is carried out in the district hospital, which has stopped doing them for some reason, perhaps financial. One of the peripheral hospitals could do it. However, it cannot be granted the right to carry out it because the licence has already been granted to the district hospital. Who will answer me about this misunderstanding that limits the receipt of adequate, affordable and timely medical care and many other things? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u93	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Are there lines? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the debate. I put to the vote the Annual Activity Report of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2018. They voted 104 MPs: for 83, against 19, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We've just accepted: On the grounds of Article 1, paragraph 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 30, para. 1 of the Health Insurance Act National Assembly HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Activity Report of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2018 Moving on to the next item on the agenda: ANNUAL REPORT ON THE ACTION OF NATIONAL HEALTH AND HEALTH CACUS FOR 2019 I think we can go on without a break. [[Noise and lines: ♪ Rest! ♪]] I hope this time we'll be more difficult and we'll be done for the day. Mrs. Daritkova, please come in for an opinion of the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u94	"COMMODITY" on the Annual Activity Report of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2019, No 002-00-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 July 2020. At its regular meeting on 23 July 2020, the Health Committee examined and discussed the Annual Activity Report of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2019, No 002-00-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 July 2020. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Zheny Nacheva, Deputy Minister of Health and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of NHIF, Professor Petko Salchev, Governor of NHIF, representatives of the word and patient organizations in the field of health. The annual activity report of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2019 was presented by Mrs. Zheny Nacheva. The annual activity report is structured in the different directions of health insurance payments and an analysis of the activities in each functional direction is carried out and detailed account is made of the checks carried out by experts of the Central Management of the National Health Insurance Fund (HIF) and the control bodies of the RHIF. On the basis of § 30 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2019, National Framework Contracts (NDCs) have not been adopted. The National Framework Treaty on Medical Activities for 2018 and the National Framework Treaty on Dental Activities for 2018. For the period of the period, two anexes to the LDC for medical activities for 2018 and two anexes to the LDC for dental activities for 2018. With Annex No RD-NS-01-1-4 of 17 June 2019 were raised prices of 82 clinical pathways and 3 clinical procedures with a view to providing affordable and quality health care, with priority children's healthcare. In the functional field of emergency medical and dental assistance, effective and efficient control of negotiation, conclusion and execution of outpatient aid contracts, which is related to the appropriate use of the resources of outpatient medical and dental assistance. The number of checks carried out in outpatient medical and dental aid in 2019 increased by 11% compared to 2018. The regulated activities in the functional field of "Bolnical medical assistance" are carried out in a dynamic environment characterised by changes in the regulations. Given the dynamics of these changes, the control activity in the system of the National Health Insurance Fund is carried out in a relatively sustainable legal environment related to the mechanisms for verifying the contractual partners of the institution. The volume of control activities was increased by controlling new contractual partners, new clinical pathways, outpatient and clinical procedures, etc. Measures have also been applied to control the costs of medicinal products on both demand and supply. Individual checks carried out have led to a disciplinary effect towards improving the quality of medical care provided, increasing patient satisfaction, improving the quality of medical documentation conducted, reducing the number of certain hospitalizations compared to previous periods. The total number of agreed clinical pathways for 2019 has increased compared to 2018. This is mainly due to the regulatory changes with which some of the clinical pathways are divided by age groups in clinical pathways for patients up to 18 years of age and over 18. A total of 2 million are provided in hospital care. 141,000. 300 clinical pathways or 2.2% more compared to 2018, 240 thousand. the number of clinical procedures, 1 million 251 thousand. the number of outpatient procedures and medical devices (implants) by 3.2% more compared to 2018. During the reporting period, activities of the functional field of medical products, medical devices and food users have reached a high level of satisfaction among patients with regard to the provision of the most advanced therapy for chronic diseases. There is a constant increase in the cost of medicinal products due to the extension of patients' access to innovative drug therapies with the inclusion of new international non-proprietary names (INN) in the list of medicinal products intended for the treatment of diseases paid under the Health Insurance Act. The entry of generic products and the reduction of prices cannot compensate for the rate of increase in costs for new and costly international non-proprietary names. The demographic structure, as well as the tendency to increase life expectancy, also determine the increase in the number of patients with one or more diseases. There is an increase in the number of patients with rare diseases. All these factors lead to an increase in the demand for drug therapies, which affects the costs of medicinal products paid by the National Health Insurance Fund. In conclusion, it was noted that in fulfilling its functional obligations, the National Health Insurance Fund will continue to work to provide accessible, modern and quality health care. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the Committee on Health and Health has proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft Decision adopting the Annual Report on the Activity of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2019, No 002"17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 July 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u96	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I propose a three-day extension procedure for proposals between the first and second reading of the Law amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u97	Thank you. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the procedural proposal to extend the deadline. Vote 95 MPs: 92 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. You have the floor for speeches on the Annual Activity Report of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2019. Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u98	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I understand how uncomfortable specialists feel in this room when they do not have the financial statement, which is an integral part of the activity of an organization. Maybe that's why I'm going to be the shortest speech in all these years from this high tribune. We will not support the National Health Insurance Fund Review for 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. I ask the MPs to put on their masks as we are in a closed public room. Are there any other speeches? Mrs. Daritkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u100	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will allow myself to recall the provisions of the Health Insurance Act, according to which the National Health Insurance Fund brings two statements to the National Assembly, one is for the activity, there is the Committee on Health; the other is for the budget. Because the Budget Committee has not reviewed these reports, we are currently only looking at the Activity Review. This is absolutely within the Rules of Procedure and cannot be grounds for the absence of the other report the decision not to support the Reporter's work. In the same way, I will not accept the arguments with which colleagues do not support the Father by arguing that it is not implemented in legislative decisions the vision of BSP for health care. Honourable Members, in these years each Member of the National Assembly shall have the right to a legislative initiative. If he believes that the regulation of the healthcare system does not meet your vision, you can submit relevant legislative changes. Personally, I haven't seen a single suggestion about... [[Reply by National Representative Valentina Naydenova.]] Personally, I have not seen any proposal to change the commercial nature of the medical establishments. I therefore believe that it is once again incorrect to use this as an occasion and a reason for not supporting the accounts. At the same time, I believe that the National Health Insurance Fund has absolutely implemented the entire legislative framework and regulation on which it should work. I therefore believe that we have a very concrete and correct reason to support the Cassata accounts. And what these reports show is that the Cashier performs his duties as a controlling body in order to ensure accessible and quality medical care. These reports show that the percentage of checks carried out is increasing, and this is in the interest of better medical assistance from the contract partners and ultimately in the interests of the Bulgarian citizens. What has not been said so far in the speeches and in the context of the previous report is that for 2018 the cassa has managed very successfully with its introduction of a new obligation, namely to manage the Center for the Treatment of Children. By accepting this new activity and successfully implementing it, we see that the administrative capacity of the Cashier is sufficient and there are enough absolutely satisfied demands.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u101	You are a little late with this statement, Mrs. Daritkova. Do you have anything on 2019?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u102	So I'm going to continue with 2019. In the course of 2019, indeed, all requests of children when medical care cannot be carried out on the territory of the country, have been approved and this ensures that there is no problem with the functioning of this activity within the framework of bringing it into the administrative capacity of the management of the National Health Insurance Fund. What is useful and happened in 2019 thanks to the legislative decisions that we have adopted here is a mechanism for concessions of medicinal products, which enables, on the one hand, to increase the access of Bulgarian citizens to innovative medicinal products, on the other hand, to ensure sustainability of the budget of the Casa and on this mechanism are agreed concessions that are constantly increasing. This year, according to my information, they are to a significant extent and this enables us to really have a guaranteed stability of the budget for medicinal products. At the same time, access to modern therapies is also possible and we have a high degree of satisfaction for patients with chronic diseases of the ability to use high-quality effective medicines to help control their diseases. We have another legislative decision that corresponds to some of the notes made here, namely that when we have a decision that there is not enough performers in a given activity and proposals from regional health insurance funds, the National Health Insurance Fund can conclude additional new clinical pathways contracts, clinical procedures with hospital care contractors. On the other hand, I would like to stress that last 2019 is the first time a new activity is paid, namely prosthetics for restoring the chewing apparatus to people who are completely detached, so in this respect we also have positive actions in terms of the regulations and the activities of the National Health Insurance Fund. This activity is increasingly applied and refined in this year. My fellow Members, I would like to emphasise that the serious discussion has indeed taken place in the Commission. Here it is important to hear the views of the parliamentary groups, but it is in the parliamentary committees that the expert discussion is held and then all the opinions that are reflected in the report can be heard. From the point of view that it is constantly pointed out as a negative that Bulgaria has the largest number of hospitals per capita, it turns out, however, that in the conditions of an epidemic, this is positive because, unlike other European countries, we have enough hospital beds to enable every patient in need of hospital treatment in the conditions of the Coronavirus epidemic to get one, and I think that indeed in view of the current events we need some of those we repeat repeatedly to be somehow revised. I would like to stress that there is no policy on the activity of the National Health Insurance Fund, which is purely party biased. On the contrary, this activity is carried out in accordance with the regulations and this report is absolutely correct and takes into account the actual results and indicators achieved each year by the National Health Insurance Fund and its subdivisions. Therefore, honourable Members, please support the National Health Insurance Fund's activity report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. Are there lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u104	Dear Dr Daritkova, 490 million is more money in this budget, for this report we voted and gave to the National Health Insurance Fund. I would agree with one positive thing in this report for this year is that 115 million of the drug money has been returned to the Casa because of the agreed concessions with the pharmaceutical industry and this is a positive one that cannot be ignored. Here you have talked long about the functional links, the legislative rules and so on and the reports you presented. I have one question for you: Would you please inform the honourable People's Representation about what consecutive year the National Assembly is not considering and does not accept the National Health Insurance Fund's budget statement? Not for the activity, honourable Members, the accounts are two.. Activity statement and Budget statement, the most important part.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. How many consecutive years has the National Assembly not considered this report? You're the chairman of the parliamentary group, you're not just a regular MP. You have mechanisms to comply with the legislative text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u105	Thanks for the line. Is there another line to make? I can't see. A hole? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u106	Mrs. Vice-President of the National Assembly, as soon as the discussion was held, clearly from the minutes, you asked this question and then I made a commitment at a meeting of the Conference of Presidents to put this topic, each of the Members of the National Assembly having these powers. I have spoken with the President of the Budget Committee within the limits of my powers as Chair of the Parliamentary Group, but none of you has put this issue to a meeting of the Conference of Presidents. In addition, I believe that you can take advantage of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and within the framework of the proposals from parliamentary groups every first Wednesday of the month to make such a proposal. Yesterday you were familiar with the proposal for an agenda, you had the opportunity to submit a proposal today to be examined together with the Fund of the Casa without him passing through the Leading Commission because the Health Committee has examined it. Thus, the Rules of the National Assembly give freedom to every Member of the National Assembly when he believes that one report is an integral part of the other to make his proposal. In this sense, I do not accept your reproach.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-07.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. Are there any other speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm calling off the debate. I shall put it to the vote: Project! DECISION adopting the Annual Activity Report of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2019 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 30, para. 1 of the Health Insurance Act HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Activity Report of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2019 Voted 103 MPs: 86 against 16, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. The Report of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2019 was thus adopted. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda, I am adjourned. The next meeting, according to the approved Programme, will begin tomorrow, October 8th, at 9.00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
