ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Mr. Matsurev, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to make a procedure.. I propose the time limit for written proposals under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly on the General Draft Law amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act, No 053-11-9, of 21 May 2020 to be extended by another 7 days.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u3	Thank you, dear Matsurev. Colleagues, I'm voting on the procedure Mr. Matsurev has just presented to us. Vote 182 MPs: for 178, against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR LEGISLATIONS. Importer supposed the Council of Ministers on 8 January 2020. Adopted at first vote on 27 February 2020. Mrs. Daritkova, would you like to introduce us to the Second Reading Report?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u4	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Report for the second vote on the Bill... [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u5	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u6	To amend and supplement the Law on Medical Institutions No 002-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 January 2020. Adopted at the first vote on 27 February 2020. "Improvement and Supplement to the Law on Medical Institutions (prom., SG No. (see Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u7	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law supported by the Commission. Vote 156 MPs: for 156, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u8	Proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Under § 1, there is a proposal of the MP Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u9	Guys, it's too loud in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u10	The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: the following point is inserted after point 4a (Commission § 1. Art. 2 is amended as follows: Art. 2. (1) Medical institutions, doctors, medical and non-medical professionals shall carry out activities related to: 1. promotion of health, prevention and prevention of diseases; 2. strengthening and protecting the health of citizens; 3. monitoring of pregnant women and delivery of maternity care; 4. diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation of the sick; 5. monitoring of chronic and disease-threatening persons; 6. diagnosis, prevention and treatment of dental diseases; 7. emergency medical care; 8. making, diagnosis, processing and storage of blood and blood components, transfusion supervision; 9. emergency psychiatric assistance, diagnosis, treatment and monitoring of persons with psychiatric disorders; 10. diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation of persons with acute and chronic dermatological diseases; 11. promotion, prevention, diagnosis and treatment of persons with cancer; 12. complex services of children with disabilities and chronic diseases; 13. palliative care for terminally ill patients; 14. dialysis; 15. tissue bank; 16. medical care; 17. integrated health and social services; 18. Other activities. (2) Through medical institutions, doctors, medical and non-medical professionals may provide and/or participate in the provision of integrated health-social services, individually, by prescription or under medical supervision related to treatment, rehabilitation, rehabilitation, care or follow-up care for disease, disability and/or maintenance of independent life and social interaction. Health and social services are provided on the basis of a medical standard established by a regulation of the Minister of Health and drawn up jointly with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. (3) Through medical institutions doctors, medical and non-medical professionals may provide and/or participate in the provision of social services, medical and social care and integrated health-social services under conditions and under the Law on social services. (4) Commercial companies with more than 50 percent state/municipality participation in capital or in which the State/municipality otherwise exercises a dominant influence are entrusted to perform a public service in healthcare under the Public Enterprises Act. (5) Training of students from lecturers with a recognized educational and scientific degree can be carried out in medical institutions, with a doctor's degree or a doctor's degree, and postgraduate training of medical and non-medical specialists working in the sector. (6) A scientific activity may be carried out in medical facilities under the guidance of a doctor with a recognised educational and scientific degree. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2 the following 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: supplied services within the meaning of this law are: 1. organisationally separate functional structures in which dentists or dentists individually or with the help of other medical and non-medical professionals carry out all or any of the following activities: (a) diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation of patients; (b) monitoring of pregnant women and delivery of maternity care; c) monitoring of chronic and disease-threatening persons; (d) disease prevention and early detection of diseases; (e) measures to strengthen and safeguard health; (f) organ, tissue and cell transplantation. 2. organisationally separate structures in which medical assistants, nurses, midwives or rehabilitators carry out all or some of the following activities themselves: (a) provision of medical and health care; (b) carrying out manipulations; c) promotion of health, prevention and prevention of diseases. 2. In para. 2 after the word "Dishrooms" is added by para. 1, t. 1.................................................................................. 3. In para. 3 after the word "Dishrooms" is added by para. 1, t. 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u12	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! Art. 1, Art. 1. 2 of the text so proposed, letter "s', we believe that it does not correspond with the subsequent texts proposed by the Council of Ministers in the Bill. Here we are talking about providing medical care and in the following texts are used the terms "health care" and "medical assistance".................................................................................. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u13	Guys, it's too loud in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u14	If we are looking for synchronization with the Social Services Act, we believe that there is a lack of the activities of medical supervision. Who's gonna do it? That is why we are making the following proposal: in § 1, art. 2, para. 1, t. 2 letter (s) of the proposed proposal of the Council of Ministers before the word of the Council of Ministers to put the words "medical surveillance" and comma after them. Thus, the text will be read: suppose medical supervision, medical and health care. [[Presents the text to the President.]] We also offer a new text of art. 2, such as: First, on the foreground, we raise the role of doctors, medical and non-medical professionals who, through registered under the Commercial Law, carry out activities related to the activities listed below...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u15	Mrs. Naydenova, just a second. Colleagues, please, it's very noisy in this room! You'll have the opportunity to say a few lines. Continue, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u16	... carry out activities in the so-called text of the Law on Medical Institutions. Secondly, with our proposals under para. 2 and para. 3 A bridge is established between the activities under the Law on Medical Institutions and the Law on Social Services, regulating the field where the two laws overlap. And thirdly, we are entrusting the medical institutions with companies with more than 50 percent state or municipal capital participation or dominant influence to perform a public service in healthcare under the Public Enterprises Act. This idea has been developed a little further in the part of the National Health Card.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mrs. Daritkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u18	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I expected colleagues to defend the proposal they have made and which completely alters the philosophy of functioning of medical institutions. This was the proposal that was discussed in the Committee on Health and was not accepted because, unfortunately, there was an extreme confusion in terminology, functions and purpose, elimination of entire sections of medical care and prioritization of certain, as example dermatological assistance, and the schooling was in your proposal, although you are surprised, and I expected you to protect why this is why you proposed to register, operate and organize medical institutions in the Republic of Bulgaria. To my great amazement, I now hear new proposals here in plenary, provided that there was enough time for these proposals to be made for the period within which the Law was left to be considered and to have regulated opportunities for proposals between first and second readings, the Commission was not yet made here, in plenary on the move, to make proposals that could indeed violate the meaning of the Bill, seems to me to be largely incorrect and I therefore appeal to the Members of the National Assembly not to support such proposals and, at the same time, not to tolerate such practices, because legislative activity requires extremely precise consideration of the texts in order not to obtain products which may subsequently make it difficult to implement the relevant legislative text. What imposes the change in this Article of the Law on Medical Institutions is the introduction of a new type of separate structures, medical establishments in which nurses, midwives, rehabilitators and medical assistants can perform medical and health services within the limits of their designated powers in the respective regulations of the Minister of Health. This was admired by the Association of Nurses. The so-called professionals in health care, and enables really the additional inclusion of these medical professionals, which will guarantee the Bulgarian citizens the opportunity to receive their services legitimately. This is extremely important because a number of manipulations and other services that will do these structures, which are still doing these specialists, will be legitimized in a way that is legally written and which can really allow for a transparent exercise of their activities. This is in the interest of medical care and patients in the Republic of Bulgaria. That is the meaning of the text, and I would like to ask the Members of the National Assembly to support the text around which the Commission has united with a majority and which I have presented to you in my report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. - What's the line? A statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u20	Dear Mrs. Daritkova, my line is as follows: Firstly, the House has the right to propose amendments and additions and therefore has a second reading. This addition came from my colleagues, who are members of the Social Committee, who reminded me of the Social Services Act, where the "visit" is involved and we have all voted as National Assembly for this. Secondly, any change in a given law cannot be read only because of the change itself, even with justification for reducing the administrative burden. For every change, you must review the entire law, see how it will affect not only him, but will also affect other laws relating to this law. That's why I can't agree with you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. Second line? I can't see. Will there be a hole? Mrs. Daritkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u22	I am again forced to answer in a direction that has nothing to do with my speech. I would like to stress that integrated health and social services have been introduced by us as an element of the Health Act. When the Social Services Act was adopted, it was decided by all MPs, including especially those from the Social Commission, because it was leading that the place of these integrated health-social services as legal regulation and legal wording is precisely in the Social Services Act. In any case, there are detailed details of all the possibilities for providing such services, and I believe that there is no room in the Law on Medical Institutions at all for such a type of terminology to refer to another law. I believe that indeed the texts that we have proposed to the attention of the plenary are precise enough, and I would like to remind you that only editorial amendments can be made in the plenary, but there are no amendments that change the meaning of the proposed texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u23	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. Mr. Popovski, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u24	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! The Group of the United patriots will support this bill at second reading, although I will support it in personal terms purely from coalition culture, because the texts on medical institutions are very liberal. Last night, I made one reference to how it is in 80 million Germany. So, nurses are not entitled to independent practices, but only to practices that are under medical supervision. Individual practices have the right medical assistants, physiotherapists and midwives. That's how it is in 80 million Germany, I'm setting it as an example. I'm not saying that we should support everything that's out there and do it the same way. Now we liberalize the Law to infinity so that nurses can reveal such practices and hopefully contribute... However, we know that they have problems with funding, with low wages and with many other problems of theirs, purely thinking. In a personal way, both I and the whole group of the United Patriarchs will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Popovski. A line? Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u26	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Dear Minister Ananiev! Dear Dr. Popovski, I very much care for a colleague of mine like you to hear me in this address. Due to many subjective circumstances, which I am very sorry about, we will be standing on this bill for a very long time, which, however, is very important in my opinion, Dr. Popovski. Using the words we support from a coalition culture is absolutely inappropriate and absolutely incorrect to the Bulgarian nation, as it is the basic law that treats medical institutions as the main source of the provision of health services. In a moment we will enter into the first serious debate on this, but I would like to refer to you and to the honourable colleague Daritkova her own words, which she just shared from the stand. Indeed, this law changes the whole philosophy of health, but, as you yourself said, in an ultra-wrong and ultra-liberal direction. We return to times of which we will be ashamed in time to destroy the entire pyramid of healthcare, to do things that are absolutely unthinkable, Dr. Popovski, unthinkable! I am telling you this with all the responsibility of a 38-year-old practitioner: to grant such rights and to speak to the Commission that the rules will now be made under unaccepted medical standards in Bulgaria and still the mandate expires on this government, the standards are not adopted. To tell you the truth, I don't know what this coalition culture is that allows you to support such a law! Thank you, Dr. Popovski. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u27	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Second line? I can't see. A hole? I won't. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u28	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! On this occasion, I will partly repeat the things we discussed in the first reading of the Law. I will say that our group is definitely behind that we will support this type of new medical facilities that will be created by nurses, midwives, rehab workers and medical assistants. This is usually necessary in our country for several reasons. The most basic of these reasons I can share it as a person who has encountered such things in my medical practice: when in some less remote area there are people who have been treated as I have worked in an oncology facility, then they are quite difficult to find a way to transport even to the city, let alone if they live in some remote place from the healthcare service concerned. Exactly this type of service can be covered, which is currently like a deficit in the performance of this service, can be covered by such medical, I apologize, sisterly practices.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u29	Don't apologize!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u30	I apologize for the mistake I made. This is something that can fill some sort of deficit right now in medical care. So, in no case, as some colleagues in the Commission have said, that fundamental health changes are being made, that there are almost no bandage hospitals being created at all, but it is the regulation of unregulated activities. I will say it again: if an elderly person who does not have the opportunity to go to the hospital to get an injection, he can safely rely on this particular type of practice to do this service for him............ whether it will be an injection, whether it will be a simple bandage, it does not matter at all. We have said that at the moment, there can also be a medical standard that determines what level of competence these structures can work to. So we strongly support and, in this way, we want, in a sense, the disadvantaged members of the medical community to have the possibility of realization, like all other members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u31	Thank you, Mr. Genov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u32	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! Dear colleague Genov, I understand your desire to justify the legal carrier in all dimensions of this poorly designed and presented bill, but I want to tell you that as doctors we must know well the practice not only in Bulgaria. I can tell you that there are remote areas in many countries in Europe that have a much higher level of healthcare than it is in Bulgaria, there are mountain areas that are one and a half degrees higher than the Bulgarian mountain areas and with a very hard-to-reach terrain, and I must tell you that the Republic of Italy has an extremely serious legislative practice and there may even be a hemotransfusion at home. But nowhere and under any conditions that we can talk about, but not in this room, it's not serious to me that one... What does a simple bandage mean, Dr. Genov? What does an elementary intravenous injection mean? Didn't you and I sit next to the sick man's bed and know what could happen after a bandage and a intravenous injection? Such judgments, my God, are made by only one person. This is the Bulgarian doctor! No one else can afford it and standards can be created below the standards so that they can justify such.. I will not say the exact word that it is not appropriate in this room, outrageous retail practices! Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u33	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Second line, Mr. Yordanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u34	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Dr. Genov, I am surprised that a doctor with your internship says that one part of the treatment of the patient is not regulated. You said health care wasn't regulated. Dr. Genov, health care is regulated in Bulgaria, so I suggest you withdraw this motive of yours, it is not serious. Another point is that you propose that it be carried out by another category of medical professionals and that is quite another thing. But now we have regulation of medical care and it is clear and exactly who can perform it, and the intravenous injection cannot be carried out by a nurse, and you know that very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u35	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Mrs. Daritkova, a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u36	Dear Dr. Genov, I want you to clearly articulate the meaning of our proposal and explain to your colleagues... [[The National Representative Georgi Mihailov is away from the microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u37	Mr. Mikhailov, please take your place!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u38	It's a distraction, Professor Mihailov. He seems a little aggressive in this position here. I hope it's only obvious. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u39	Well, he's a gentleman, Mr. Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u40	Because they set off with too great a zeal to limit the possibilities for activities that have really been carried out by nurses, rehab workers and medical assistants who work on the field to be regulated in the Law on Medical Institutions. This regulation allows, on the one hand, the practice of legitimising, on the other hand, to be well-controlled. Because there is really a clear regulation, I think one of the replicators mentioned it vaguely to the powers of medical professionals. They can only do what is written in the respective regulation of the Minister of Medicine. In no case do we change these powers by law. What doctors can do is also regulated in the standards of the relevant activity, so this does not in any way change the other legal requirements for the powers of the individual groups of medical professionals. I believe that such practice is only in the interest of the Bulgarian patients who need the medical assistants who support the activities of the general practitioners in many settlements in Bulgaria. By legitimizing the activities of nurses who can assist, and the already mentioned health-social services that will develop on the territory of the country and are already being imposed, they will also be able to perform rehabilitation of patients who are listed in the home, for example, after severe neurological diseases. This can be done through this type of healthcare. This is only for the benefit of Bulgarian patients and I hope the Chamber understands it. Despite all suggestions, there is no fundamental change in the mechanism and the structure of providing medical assistance in the Law on Medical Institutions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. Mr. Genov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u42	Mrs. Chairman! About the lines, if we start backwards. Yes, this recommendation of Dr. Daritkova is in some way a reference to the question, again as we go backwards, to Professor Yordanov. Professor Yordanov, I didn't say unauthorized treatment. I didn't say anything like that! I said: to regulate unregulated activities so far. What do I mean? I mean, the last time I explained it, if I have to repeat it again, I'm going to repeat it, for example, a person who stays at home and has to be given injections and is not able to go to the clinic or to another health care facility. He finds, for example, in a neighboring entrance some acquaintance or sister and so on, she comes and gives injections. Where's the regulation?! Where's the responsibility?! Where's the medical surveillance?! But she's giving him an injection, taking some money, and it's all in the illegal activity. Why can't this thing be regulated?!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u43	Because it's not right.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u44	Why wouldn't it be right?!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u45	Do not engage in dialogue with the House!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u46	I apologize. So I didn't use any treatment. As for Professor Mihailov's line of elegance bandages. Professor Mihailov, there are simple, there are complex, there are bandages that eventually grow into an opportunity to get into surgery. Twenty-nine years I will adjust from the last time, I said that 30 years I have been in a surgical ward for 29 years and I know very well what an elementary bandage means and how, for example, in every surgical ward doctors entrust enough trust to nurses who are there for a reason, and they say, if there is any problem, then call me. And whether or not a doctor makes a bandage, this is the first I've heard of it from you. However, as far as activities are concerned, what they are, how they are, we will later see in the Law. Dr. Naydenova has enough theories about what a medical service is and many of the meaning of terminology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u47	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Mrs. Jaffer, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u48	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I would like to state our intention to strongly support the proposed text. Our position has been unchanged for several years, within which this debate is being held, including for the integrated medical and social care, an idea that has emerged that has found a legislative reflection. Unfortunately, the legislative text has not yet entered into force. However, honourable Members on the left, there are countries in which 150 years, for example in the UK, have been regulated similar practices and this is working good practice. We live in conditions where there are not enough doctors in whole areas. Not to mention doctors in tighter specialties, but wider ones. Not enough gynecologists, not enough pediatricians, not enough rehab. This is an opportunity in which, with a clear regulation, in a regulation with written texts what the competences of these people are, can be useful for the community, for those who need their care. [[Noise and excitement.]] Why would a nurse...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u49	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u50	...or a midwife can't participate in activities that are related to observation, with female consultations, with child consultations, with long-term care, with palliative care for people who can't be accommodated in hospice, for example? Why should medical assistants, midwives, rehabilitators not be able to carry out activities that they are still carrying out in pilot projects, by the way, which have proven to be extremely useful to the community?! The Bulgarian Red Cross, for example, implemented on one of its projects in Northwestern Bulgaria working mechanisms and practices that are described, and I hope you will be well aware of them. There are other organizations that work and show how they can. The efforts of these people who have been trained for four years, by the way, is a highly qualified work that needs to be used with absolute justification and for the benefit of people. I do not understand your arguments when you declare yourself so strongly against this decision, provided that in the next text, which we will consider, there is a proposal of Dr. Naydenova. The following is written in this proposal: "Through medical facilities doctors, medical and non-medical professionals are providing extra-patient and hospital medical care. " - I did not receive an adequate response to the Commission's meeting as to what is meant by non-medical professionals providing such assistance. Why should we not give medical assistants and nurses, midwifes and rehabilitators the opportunity to be absolutely regulated in the regulation, with clear rules to carry out activities for which they have been trained?! That means we're going to deprive ourselves of their potential. That is why we will strongly support the texts that give this opportunity. However, we have little doubt that this will increase, unfortunately, unregulated payments by the patient himself if no other way of financing these activities is found. I see Dr. Daritkova is smiling because she is aware of this problem. But anyway, we have to take this step in time. Why shouldn't it be now, including a text written in this law?! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u51	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jaffer. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u52	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Dear Minister Ananiev! Dear Dr. Jaffer, I have listened carefully to your speech. It has a solid logic, but let me tell you that all these practices that you have cited in individual countries in Europe have undergone a very serious evolution in the UK for the past 150 years. Let's not talk like that, because 150 years is a very big period in medicine. They're not called hospitals, but they're called in a completely different way, and they're subject to a very strict, very ironic control that hasn't been built here, Dr. Jaffer. And that's what we said in the Commission. The lawmaker puts the cart in front of the horse. First, it makes a loud name for a hospital for non-medical... [[Replication by rapporteur Daniela Daritkova.]] Now we don't have to argue about it. I'd say in the spirit of the joke that you just started, that...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u53	Don't engage in private conversations!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u54	...the red color of your suit means great fierceness in the dispute and it begins to realize itself. But indeed, you have a serious right. In individual regions of the country there is a shortage of medical personnel. A very serious shortage! Not only in Northeastern Bulgaria, as well as in Southeastern Bulgaria, and everywhere. This does not mean adjusting the Law to the problems we have created ourselves as a nation and as a society. We have been repeating here for three years: let us solve the principle problems of health care. If we do these medical facilities now, we are not.. You are absolutely right and for the funding decided how they will be financed, then there will be colossal battles with the Casa whether they should be attached to it, and they will be attached to this single milking cow, endlessly expanding and failing effective Bulgarian healthcare. This was the point of our opposition that these things should be carefully considered as a name, as a structure, as a way of action, to collect the relevant ones, and not to speak to us on behalf of the Deputy Minister of Health, that regulations will now be issued which will regulate what has already been adopted by Law. That's no way to do anything in this world! [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u55	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u56	Therefore, things need to be carefully prepared, carefully pushed through the National Assembly's Chamber to have a real effect. Otherwise, it's just...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u57	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u58	...a wish to play law-making. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u59	Second line? Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u60	I think we should make a fine adjustment to this draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Medical Institutions in the part § 1. It consists of the following:................I ask you very much, colleagues, to distinguish the two things... one is with regard to Dr. Jeffer, where he talks about outpatient medical care, non-medical specialists. Outpatient's nowhere in the proposal. Notice! Here I will quote Mrs. Menda Stoyanova, who at the beginning, and I thank you for her experience, said to us: "Colegi, read carefully! The current text of the Law on Medical Institutions writes: 18 for all other medical activities not provided for in the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. Third line? I can't see. Mrs. Jaffer, will he have a back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Dr. Mihailov, we can get lost in this debate why we do not want to regulate the obvious need for this qualified staff to carry out their activities. They want nothing more than a clear regulation of their rights, powers and obligations and what they can do, what they can't do. Of course, all this should be supervised by a doctor. However, it is extremely counterproductive to talk about it because doctors do not want to seize their territories, they do not want to give us a step away from their powers, although no one takes away from them, as far as I understand the idea. As for the fact that practices in European countries have changed, yes, they have changed, people are moving forward. However, we are frozen in one place, we are aware that we have a shortage of doctors, nurses, midwifes, rehab workers, anything at all, but we are doing nothing in the direction of changing this trend. This is another topic, another discussion. Dr. Naydenova, in the text, which we will shortly examine, is clearly written that non-medical specialists work in outpatient and hospital care, perform outpatient and medical activities. That's what you wrote down. That's what I was quoting. That is why I do not understand why you are bringing some of this debate here, but somehow directed against proposals. However, I would also like to hear the opinion of the Minister of Health, because, Mr. Minister, the concerns of colleagues here are how will the scope of these specialists be regulated, what will they do, in what form and who will pay them? Here are some questions that we have not been able to answer so far, including at the Commission meeting. Professor Mihailov, it is logical that the regulations and regulations should come after changing the legal texts. This is the logic of the legislative process. So there's nothing surprising about that. Another point is that sometimes regulations are waited for years, but this is also another topic for conversation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Jaffer. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote, fellow Members. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. First, I will put to the vote Mrs. Naydenova's unsupported proposal and a group of MPs. They voted 125 MPs: 36, against 70, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mrs. Naydenova's editorial amendment. They voted 126 MPs: 39, against 67, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version of § 1 of the Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u64	They voted 127 MPs: 96, against 1, abstention 30. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u65	According to § 2 there is a proposal of the MP Georgi Yordanov and a group of MPs.................................................................................................. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 3: The medical establishments referred to in Article 3 (3) shall be subject to the following conditions: 8, para. 1, t. 5 letter (s) shall be established by: 1. natural persons suppliers, nurses, midwives or rehabilitators; 2. sole traders or sole companies registered by medical assistants, nurses, midwives or rehabilitators; in cases where the medical establishment is established as a sole commercial company, the sole owner manages and represents the medical establishment. 2. Previously on AMC's... 3 " 6" became respectively. 4... 7............................................................ Mr President, I am making the following editorial proposal in the version of the Commission for § 2: 1. Paragraph 2 shall be amended as follows: "2." Previously on AMC's... 3 and 4 become respectively. 4 and 5. 2. To create a t. 3 and 4: "3." So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6 And in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): Five o'clock. 4. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u66	Thank you. Statements, coworkers? Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u67	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Minister Ananiev! Paragraph 2 is, in essence, the fundamental change that the legislator has provided for in this bill, except for these extensive practices in recent years, to pass several others into Transitional and Final Provisions, but when the time comes, we will talk about it then. The whole debate so far, I am therefore not going to be very talkative, as you have already seen our attitude towards the problem, it is up to this § 2. I fully agree with the logic of colleagues in the Chamber who believe, and it is indeed so that there is a need in Bulgaria. But this need could have been regulated, proposed as a bill in a much more serious, much more professional, much more sized way, not to give the thunderous definitions to medical institutions. And the second thing, which is fundamental, in these editorial draft changes, which have now been read, is practically affirming a trend against which the Bulgarian Socialist Party stood from the very beginning in the mandate of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. We'll have time to talk, Mr. Minister, maybe in just a couple of weeks about how the health care system dealt with COVID-19 and what are the reasons...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u68	That's great.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u69	Whether it's wonderful we'll see in the debate, Dr. Daritkova. Now we're doing dialogues with you again. I only read it in the red color. [[Radio.]] I want to tell you that such crushing and an opportunity to make dozens of types of medical establishments of the type of shops that are not even known how to finance them yet. And here was the correct remark, and I quote it again: how the law went and then the regulations came. I know it, Dr. Jaffer, but what's going on here? Can I tell you about another law that his electronic system still doesn't work for a year and a half after that? I can tell you that if you want, but you said correctly that this is the subject of another conversation. There's been a lot of talk. I ask the Members of the Chamber, who have nothing to do with this topic and are not obliged to know it, to think carefully, to talk to their representatives doctors in their parliamentary group, not to make mistakes that we will in time correct legislatively, the Bulgarian nation will have to correct them through its parliament. The way you're doing it today is inappropriate, it's not going to work. On the contrary, there will be blunders that I find difficult to explain to you because you have nothing to do with our profession as a practitioner, but colleagues know what can happen from the most basic medical manipulation in the practice of a doctor and a medical practice. So don't let yourself cross this line like that. There are enough legislative possibilities to resolve it in a very well organised way. There are opportunities for telemedicine in the world that have been very advanced in the last 20 years. I don't want to go into details that don't understand the room at all to discuss them here. But now is not the time to change the Law on Hospitals. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u70	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. The line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u71	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u72	Are there any lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u73	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! I believe that this bill is extremely important and that statements of a general nature of the heights of its experience of a colleague, or of the heights of the fact that between first and second reading has not made any proposal, I think it is absolutely inappropriate. Moreover, we are currently looking at § 2, Mr President, and here there was a statement of a general nature. Besides, this is where the negatives are presented to us all the time... I want to ask here because the audience has become more medical, those who are not interested have left the hall, I want to address you: who puts the abocats in a clinic and how are the venous applications performed? [[Radio.]] Who's putting them on? I'll ask others...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u74	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u75	That's the way it is, yeah. I'd throw out a lot more examples. Therefore, Mr President, I suggest that you strictly observe the Rules of Procedure, that we are at the moment of § 2, and that you be strict with all those who deviate from the subject that we are discussing be interrupted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u76	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u77	Dear Mr. President, I ask you to not allow the Bulgarian tribune of the National Assembly to offer strictly illegal practices such as the placement of an abocath and the execution of venous manipulations outside the medical staff of a person who has higher medical education. It is so wrong to talk about a practice that is vicious, which is punishable by the Law and which is not allowed anywhere in normal Europe, is not serious in the stands of the National Assembly. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u78	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Mr. Yordanov. [[Replications between the MPs Lachezar Ivanov and Georgi Mihaylov.]] Mr. Mikhailov, please. Actually, I have an opinion on this, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u79	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I agree with Associate Professor Ivanov that we should treat matter in particular and the first topic I want to discuss is: why? We already have a medical facility where nurses can work on their own. It's called hospice. It can be managed by a person with medical education, not only by a nurse, even a dentist. What is the difference between what is now offered and hospice? With the hospice, the patient should be hospitalized, and now we allow these nurse care, or health care, as in the Law, to be done outpatiently, that is to say the patient is not observed hospitalized, he is at home and he is there in place, or somewhere else medical care is found. I think we could have just expanded the scope of action of a hospital called hospice, and a lot of the things we're discussing now would have dropped out. Secondly, with ambiguity, I ask the question again, as well as at first reading, why do we ignore the doctor in this type of hospital? So these establishments can be created by medical assistants, by nurses, by rehabilitators with the addition of associate professor Ivanov, and the doctor cannot participate in their creation, provided that it is an integral part of this activity that is being carried out. That is, without his so-called appointments, this establishment simply cannot work, and he cannot participate in the establishment of these establishments. What does that make sense? This part of the care, as Dr. Genov said, he believes that only the surgery, because it is his specialty, should be done by the doctor, and the other probably by nurses, why can't the doctor, if there is interest, be unable to participate in the creation of this type of medical facilities? It's discrimination for the profession. We are ignoring, or under a surdine here, the financial problems of this medical facility, which is about to be created, but I would like to ask, as the first alternative is that these hospitals are created by individuals, these individuals will accept payment from their patients, what type of tax entity they represent? Maybe they like free professions to be patented or something. I think that tax legislation should be clear here in relation to what we are creating. Or we'll re-create a premature child, because today we are creating a medical facility that has no clear rights, there is no standard for its action at least for this category of medical professionals who work. It is also unclear what tax entities they are. These things need to be clarified because otherwise we will really raise the unregulated payments in the healthcare system in Bulgaria. They're 43 now and we're going to make it 60 and we're going to legitimize them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u80	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Are there any lines? I won't. We continue with the speeches. Mrs. Daritkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u81	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since there have been many eclectic and misleading statements that have transferred us to the subject of tax law, I would like to return you to the proposal for § 2. I'm sorry. This proposal concerns the mechanism under which nurses' healthcare facilities, medical assistants, midwives and rehabilitators are established, which we have already supported in the previous paragraph. This mechanism is the same in which doctors and dentists can register group or individual practices for outpatient medical care in the current text. This already exists, and I am surprised how people who have managed hospitals do not know in detail the Law on Hospitals and its paragraphs. The possibility of doctors and dentists to establish suggests that in their practices work and nurses. When we want to create practices for other types of care that do not fall under the authority of the doctor, and these are precisely those healthcare establishments that we now regulate, it is normal that they are not established by doctors, but by those specialists who will carry out the relevant kind of care that are clearly described in their powers. That is the point of this paragraph, and so far, we have never had to make any special references to tax laws in the texts in force. It is clear that they are regulated when they are not as individuals, but as legal persons under the Commercial Law, and they comply with the rules laid down in the Commercial Law. Therefore, colleagues, believe me, the text is absolutely comprehensive, clean and it concerns what philosophy is and we have already adopted in the previous paragraph. I therefore ask you to support it as the Commission has supported it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u82	Thank you. Line, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u83	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Dr. Daritkova, I am too, too surprised by your speech. You don't seem to know the difference between the natural person and the medical establishment. You allow yourself to claim that the doctor is identical with a medical establishment. This is simply not the case. It's a complete nonsense.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u84	How could I say such a thing!?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u85	How can you not say... You're telling me you see, because the doctor has the right to set up a type of medical establishment, it's unlimited. No, Dr. Daritkova, I pleaded that the doctor has no right to set up this kind of medical facility that we are now looking at. And you're telling me he can set it up.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u86	No, I said I couldn't because...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u87	Yeah, he can't, but why can't he?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u88	You entered a private conversation from the stands, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u89	It's part of the treatment. It's part of his profession. [[Reply from Daniela Daritkova.]] It's not like that! You are questioning the basic parameters of the medical profession at the moment, from healthcare in the Republic of Bulgaria. You're doing legal vomit, and we're all going to suffer from it. You have to understand that! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u90	I'll keep my mouth shut. Next line. I can't see. Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u91	I'm going to pass the generously ugly accusation, but I want to explain one more time, because I hope someone finds out anyway. In the current text of this Article of the Law on Medical Institutions, it is described how doctors can establish medical facilities for outpatient medical care. And because the new kind of medical and health care facilities will concern extra-hospital medical care, because they don't concern hospital care, that's why we've written down who can set up this kind of medical facilities. In no case am I questioning the fundamental rights of doctors, but doctors cannot do rehabilitation because it does not fall within their powers. Rehabilitators can and therefore these medical facilities can also be created by rehabilitators.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u92	If they're physical therapists, how can they?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u93	With this simple example, excuse me, part of rehab... [[Noise and lines.]] Maybe I went back into a realm that turned you on. ...part of rehab, assigned by a doctor. That is why I believe, because if we give the opportunity, we overlap the other texts of the Law, that is to say, once again, medical institutions created by doctors and rehabilitators to be included in them. And we are giving them the opportunity to practice on their own, something that will complement existing medical institutions. I am surprised once again that here in this Chamber you are contesting and making proposals that are in no way reflected in your proposals between first and second readings. By being able to make the Law more precise, by being able to fundamentally change things, you have all the powers of MPs. Why have you proposed what we see in the proposals made by you, which is really fundamental? It's a good thing that you withdrew your offer, that you had completely obliterated the staff of dental doctors with your first proposal. Let's say what you offered so fundamentally. So I am asking you to really take advantage of all the powers of MPs, not to wait for the moment when you will take power, because this may not happen, and now you are proposing... [[(Replys:.) Come on!]] We have always stated that we are ready to support any constructive proposal that will really make improvements to the healthcare system.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. A statement? Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u95	Dear Minister, dear Mr. Chairman, even more respected doctors, medical professionals! I'm not sure I should have taken the floor, I'm not even sure yet. [[Laughter]] But the conversation took on interesting dimensions. [[Noise and lines.]] The conversation has come to terms. And if, in this way, in our legislation, we have to settle the controversial issues in all terms of Bulgarian society, we become another body. I regret going back years perhaps to history, but it is no coincidence that there are serious thinking organisations in developed societies, where these issues that we are discussing here today have been clarified in advance and are not resolved in parliaments. That's why there were thought organizations. The association decides and does not concern the whole society with the questions: who is a doctor, who is a nurse, who opens the establishment, who puts an abocat, who does not place it and how exactly to perform the stitching of the wounds. So I also call on those who are dealing with a legislative initiative in this area to discuss the legislation, the laws that we are dealing with, to have a preliminary stage in which these issues should also be cleared in the Bulgarian Parliament to discuss non-conventional issues, but to discuss legislative acts that would allow for universal general regulation of this matter. I am sorry to interfere in this way, I may have somehow affected the controversial entity, but, honourable Members, let us make a sound point in our legislative process. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u96	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Here's a line for you, Mr. Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u97	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mr. Jablyanov, I agree with you that many things could have been clarified in advance in the Health Commission. However, you are referring to one issue, perhaps without feeling it, which has been a matter for 20 years in the Bulgarian Parliament and which is extremely serious, but there is fierce resistance against it. Personally, I have placed it two or three times in front of the Ministry's leadership. This is an extremely serious matter. It is practiced in the vast majority of European countries. And if there were a medical chamber that was subject to the National Assembly, it would not have come to these disputes, which are really acutely professional. But it wouldn't have come to them if we had a serious discussion spirit in the Health Commission, not with the wailing of the majority to go through all the paragraphs and to complete the votes by conducting those who have a mechanical majority. Because a fellow philosopher has said that the majority is not always right, but is almost never progressive. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u98	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. The line, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u99	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Zablyanov, I think that the confusion came precisely from your parliamentary group, which introduced the debate into topics which are in no way subject to the regulation of this bill. There was a maximum period for proposals between the first and second reading of the Law four weeks. There was an opportunity for MPs from your parliamentary group to submit proposals. What they have tabled on this text, which we are discussing at the moment, is to completely eliminate the possibility of setting up such a type of medical institution, not to be established by doctors. These ideas that come up here spontaneously in this room really create confusion. I hope that very carefully colleagues, after the long presence already within this Parliament, have understood that we must really carefully make proposals and defend what has been proposed here. The fact that new proposals are being made, I admit, really creates confusion, but they are by no means subject to regulation, neither manipulations nor powers. They are all described in the relevant laws of the word organizations, in the relevant regulations, in the relevant medical standards. Here now we only regulate the types of health care facilities the new kind of medical establishment and the possibility to be established by the relevant specialists who will carry out activities in it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u100	Thank you. Is there another line? I won't. Are there any other statements? I can't see. We will call off the debate and move on to the vote. First, I will put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Georgi Yordanov and a group of MPs. Vote 109 MPs: 35, against 61, abstention 13. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the editorial amendments made by the Parliamentary Representative Daniela Daritkova in the paragraph under consideration which have been presented. They voted 112 MPs: 79, against 1, abstention 32. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 2 with the amendments already adopted. They voted 116 MPs: for 85, against 7, abstention 24. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u101	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: Paragraph 2a is inserted: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall 1. Al. 1 is amended as follows: Medical and non-medical professionals provide outpatient and hospital care through medical facilities. Medical establishments are established by the State, by municipalities and other legal and natural persons. 2. Al. 3 is amended as follows: The medical institutions shall be subject to medical, financial, tax and other control as determined by law. § 2b. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." In para. 1 after the word "supplies" the Ministry of Youth and Sports is added, and after the word "create" the comma is placed and added the "supplier" and/or the "supplier" is added. 2. A new para is being created. 2? 5 and para. 6: supplied institutions under this law with more than 50 percent State participation in capital or in which the State otherwise exercises dominant influence are created, converted and/or closed by the State or higher schools. (3) The medical establishments under this law with more than 50 per cent municipal participation in the capital or in which the municipality otherwise exercises dominant influence are created, converted and/or closed by a decision of the municipal council. (4) The establishment, transformation and/or closure of medical establishments may also be implemented by other natural and legal persons under the Commercial Law or the Cooperative Act. (5) The establishment, transformation and/or closure of medical establishments shall be carried out under the National Health Card and under the order of the Health Act. (6) The establishment, transformation and/or closure of medical establishments shall be carried out in consultation with the Minister of Health. 3. Previously on AMC's... 2 " 5" becomes respectively. 7.. 10.... 10............................................................................. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u102	Thank you. Statements? Mrs. Naydenova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u103	Dear Mr. Chairman! I'm sorry he's gone, Mr. Minister, but I think he's listening right now, because what I'm about to say concerns him as well. As regards § 2a, we believe that when we work with public and financial resources, the rules must be the same for all, regardless of the form of ownership. The public and municipal health institutions cannot be unequal and discriminated against against by private hospitals for which the so-called standard of financial activity does not apply. That is why we propose in a new § 2a medical institutions to be subject to medical, financial, tax and other control as determined by law. In the new § 2b we add two things: first, what has been omitted until now the Act in force on Medical Institutions Ministry of Youth and Sports to the medical institutions under art. 5 para. 2. It is about the hospital in Dianabad, which is at the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the hospital of orthopedics, traumatology and sports medicine, for which every year we vote financial resources in the state budget. And second of all, we offer in art. 5, in addition to the establishment of medical establishments under this law, they shall be converted and closed under it, such as the establishment, transformation and closure of medical establishments, to be carried out after prior coordination with the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. - What's the line? I can't see. Mrs. Daritkova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u105	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! You will again confuse the House because what you have proposed has nothing to do with the first part of your speech. And what I'm trying to say is that this proposal is a really legal absurdity. I will not use the term your colleague previously shared here, but it also fits this text. You allow non-medical persons to provide outpatient and hospital care. That's what you wrote in the text. Who will they treat according to your proposal? Or ambulance drivers? Or the electricians in the hospitals? The way you wrote it, that comes from the proposal. Furthermore, where is the legal definition made clear and where is the dominant influence? What is this dominant influence in hospitals? What influence do you have on financially, physically, mentally? Absolutely vague and incomprehensible as a meaning term laid down here, from which nothing arises. You give everyone the opportunity to set up a medical facility with the texts so proposed, and on top of that, you place the minister to close them down in some order which is already clearly written and regulated at the moment. On the other hand, you are absolutely deluded that there is a hospital at the Ministry of Youth and Sports. There is a hospital that serves athletes, but it is by no means within the meaning of art. 5 of the Law on Medical Institutions. There are clearly listed hospitals that are government, and the Ministry of Youth and Sports does not own such a hospital. The funding of this hospital for the service of athletes is indeed going through the budget, but by radically different mechanisms than the mechanisms under which hospitals are financed under art. 5. So this proposal is absolutely unacceptable and this is the great contribution to the Law on Medical Institutions, which has made your parliamentary group, because almost all MPs from the Health Commission have supported it and I think you really can't be proud of this proposal. I hope the plenary does not support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. - What's the line? Here's a line for you, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u107	Dear colleagues! Now, the Act in force on medical institutions has unnecessary mention that non-medical specialists also help doctors in their work. We've just passed this §1, Art. 1. 2. More and more we want or do not want non-medical professionals to take a wider place in practices or in so-called hospitals because the world is going that way. He can't do it without them. It's not just the earpiece, the experience, the knowledge. That's why there's nothing to contradict or disturb, Dr. Daritkova. So we stand behind our proposals and ask them to be supported. Regarding § 2b, we say that in addition to creating medical institutions, we still need to think about how we will convert them, how they will be closed, which law transforms them and/or closes them. The trade law?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. Here you go, Mrs Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u109	Dear Mrs. Naydenova, there is a significant difference between what exists in the Law on Medical Institutions, because we have not changed it and this has been a valid text since this law was made, in which we have accepted that doctors and dentists independently or with the help of other medical and non-medical professionals perform all activities. In other words, they do not provide medical assistance, as you have written, as non-medical professionals who indicate these activities, and in this case the difference is really fundamental and there is no danger that we will extend the powers of non-medical professionals as it has always been. In addition, the Law on medical institutions in subsequent articles clearly states how they are established, how they are closed, how they are controlled. All this is a clearly written regulation and there is no need to bring it out in this way in a separate article and to get really a mix-up. I think that indeed your proposal is insufficiently thought out, refined and should not be supported. I hope you understand.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. Mr. Ademov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u111	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I had no intention of speaking on this text, but I was impressed by the BSP colleagues' proposal in para. 4: The creation and transformation or closure of medical establishments can also be realized by other natural and legal persons under the Commercial Law or the Co-operatives Act. Dear colleagues, the Law on Medical Institutions is the structurally defining law on the healthcare system. The health insurance law is the functional law. You BSP colleagues have been insisting in recent years that medical institutions do not register under the Commercial Law. No proposal you have in the Law on Medical Institutions that legally regulates your thesis you have been preaching in recent years. On the contrary, instead of suggesting what you are saying in the Bulgarian Vision, and where you are going in other your speeches, what you are doing, you are saying that the medical institutions are registered under the Commercial Law. When are you right? Is it in Vision for Bulgaria or now in this proposal? [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u112	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. A line? Here's a line for you, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u113	Dr. Ademov, the term is "can" which means that they can decide to be registered under the Law on Medical Institutions. This does not cancel our view that hospitals and hospitals should not be commercial companies.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. Any other speeches? Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u115	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Naydenova, the text you wrote down and what you just said differ greatly. You, I repeat, have no proposal for medical institutions to register otherwise outside the Commercial Law. What you wrote in para. 4 is clearly proof that you accept the registration of medical establishments under the Commercial Law, as is current legislation. Why am I saying this? Because you have to give yourself a clear account of the fact that if medical institutions have to register under another law, they have to go through a liquidation procedure. Do you realize that a large part of the medical institutions in Bulgaria have obligations, I cannot now tell you the exact number of obligations, which means that they must be declared bankrupt, must go through liquidation, should come union and everything that is written in the Commercial Law? Do you understand this thing? If you understand that, then you won't have to make these kinds of proposals again.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u116	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs. They voted 101 MPs: 21, against 65, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u117	According to § 3 there is a proposal of the MP Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: In § 3 t. 1 is amended as follows: "1." Al. 6 is amended as follows: supplied by the state budget and/or the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, and/or the municipal budget, apply financial activity standards established by a regulation of the Minister of Health. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 the following 1. In para. 6 the final addition shall be made, which shall also include rules for determining the amount of remuneration of the medical staff drawn up in accordance with the requirements of art. 247, para. 2 of the Labour Code. 2. The creation of para. 8. The treatment establishments designated to monitor the effect of therapy with medicinal products under art. 262c, para. 1 of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, provide daily to the National Council on Prices and Reimbursing of Medicinal Products information about each particular medicinal product through their hospital information system.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u118	Statements? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs. They voted 99 MPs: 22, against 67, abstention 10. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version of § 3 of the Commission Report. They voted 102 MPs: 83, against 2, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. Negative vote please, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u119	She spoke!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u120	In essence, Mrs. Naydenova was not speaking a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u121	Why did I make a negative vote? Because I believe that what Dr. Ivanov used, based on art. 247, para. Two of the Labor Code is a big mistake. We make doctors and medical specialists, excuse me, manufacturers. I'll read to you the article in question. 247, para. 2 of the Labour Code: The wage size per unit of production (work norm) is negotiated between the worker................................................................................................... The work of the doctor and medical specialists cannot be measured by the norm, but is a combination of much knowledge, skill and vocation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. We're moving on.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u123	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: screated § 3a: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6a, para. 2, p. 1 Finally, after the word "Activity', a slash is placed and the medical profession is added. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u124	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u125	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll allow myself a little violation of the rules so I can explain what she tried to instill in her negative vote on her statement. What colleagues and the Commission have done and have reaffirmed is to regulate the need for rules on the allocation of wages and this is bound by the collective employment contract which is subject to this article. 247, para. 2 of the Labour Code. That is the point of the proposal.. cannot be less than what was agreed in the collective agreement! In no way do the powers and specific, clear functions of those working in the healthcare system interfere here! Such a proposal was made in the following texts related to national framework contracts (NDCs). We believe that it is incorrect to record such financial rules there because it is explicitly stated in the contents of the LDC that such additions to national framework contracts are not allowed. That is why we are recording it in the Law on Medical Institutions, linked to the financial rules that are being made by the Ministry of Health, and social legislation should be the leading one. And that is why we have made a reference and bound it to what has been agreed under the Labour Code, so you can be absolutely sure that you have supported the right proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. - What's the line? Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u127	Dear Dr. Daritkova, I said that art. 247, para. 1 can't be a reason! [[Reply from rapporteur Daniela Daritkova.]] So find some other basis, but not this term.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u128	Second line? I can't see. A hole, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u129	I'll read to you now. 2, to which we have made a reference not to para. 1: The amount of wage per unit of production (labour rate) shall be negotiated between the employee or employee and the employer and shall not be less than that provided for in the collective contract of employment. That's the reference. Not to al. 1... to para 1.............................................................................. 2 is the reference, you can be calm.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u130	Thank you. Any other speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs for the creation of § 3a. They voted 106 MPs: 24, against 70, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u131	Under § 4, there is a proposal of the MP Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: ............................................ Chapter 1 "Securities control and medical activities (with art. 7a "7g") is repealed. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7b, para. 1, t. 13 the word "malby" is replaced by "morning."
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u132	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u133	Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'll take care of two things. Firstly, on the proposal made by us, the control in the Law on Medical Institutions, which has been developed for them as commercial companies. However, health establishments and offices in schools, kindergartens, kindergartens are not in this law, but are in the Health Act, because they are simply not commercial companies. In them the Executive Agency of Medical supervision, I read to you verbatim, can only check the conformity of the structure, management, activity and organization of medical care and there it does not exercise control by law. The realization of regulated professions we have under both the Laws of Health and the Law of Health. Therefore, we believe that the systematic place of control by the Executive Agency must be in the basic health law, namely in the Health Act, by making a proposal that Chapter 1 It is further reviewed and developed.. We propose to be in the Health Act. Secondly, regarding Dr Daritkova's proposal under art. 7b, t. 13 the word "molby" to be replaced by the word "evils" we had many disputes in the Committee on Health, but we believe that this is not correct and we propose that the word "molby" be replaced by the words "evils and/or signals." Our motives are as follows in the Administrative Procedure Code both terms are used.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u134	Thank you. Is this an editorial amendment? No, it's just a statement. - What's the line? I won't. Dr. Daritkova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u135	I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen of the House, that for such small proposals I have to make an explanation, but we have indeed had a long legal dispute because it is such rather. It has become clear that, in the text in force so far, the term "supplied' refers mainly to administrative bodies. This is why it was accepted by the signals submitted to the Executive Agency "Medical supervision" for the quality of the medical assistance provided. And we have adopted in the Commission that the more correct legal term is........................................................................................... I believe that this is also exhausting the possibility of issuing signs to the Executive Agency "Medical supervision" in relation to its powers of quality, volume, accessibility and any other problems that can be noted by citizens when receiving medical care. That is why we concentrated and united around this term........................ to replace it with a complaint....................................................................................................................................................... and........................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. - What's the line? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Ms. Naydenova and a group of MPs. They voted 105 MPs: 30, against 69, abstention 6. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the amendment of § 4. They voted 105 MPs: 82, none, abstention 23. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u137	Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7d, para. 1 the words "and officials' shall be replaced by the persons in charge, the natural persons and the persons in charge, the persons in charge, the persons in charge, the persons in charge, the The Commission shall support the text of an importer for § 5, which shall become § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u138	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the newly created § 5 and the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 6. They voted 101 MPs: for 78, against 1, abstention 22. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u139	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: screated § 5a: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9, para. 6 Finally, after the word "actions', a comma is placed and added as a mandatory condition that the medical institutions are not contractual partners. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Yordanov and a group of MPs: screated § 5a: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 3 Finally, after the word "speciality" a Master in Economics and Management is added with an acquired educational and/or scientific degree, specialty or passed training to improve the qualification under art. 43 of the Law on Higher Education in the field of health management. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs: A new § 6 is being created. ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18, para. 1 make the following additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18, para. 1 sentence 1 shall be inserted after the word "Medicians" and shall be added a biologist with a recognised postgraduate specialization in clinical chemistry or with a recognised postgraduate specialization in microbiology. The text to the end of the sentence shall be retained. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18, para. 1 sentence 2 after the word "specificity" is added, "or biologist with a recognized postgraduate specialization in clinical chemistry or with a recognised postgraduate specialization in microbiology." The text to the end of the sentence shall be retained. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u140	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u141	Although Dr Daritkova, honourable Members, read also § 5, and § 6 at once, we will make a statement on both paragraphs. As regards § 5 we propose to create a new § 5a concerning cases where another hospital care facility is operating on the territory of a state or municipal hospital. We believe that the condition that clinics, wards and laboratories of the two medical institutions perform different medical activities is not sufficient. According to the current law on medical institutions, we have seen how the hospital in Lovech, in Vratsa, and perhaps somewhere else, we do not know about, were drained. Not to mention outsourcing. With our proposal, we set another condition that these hospitals are not contractual partners among themselves. In simple terms: The National Health Insurance Fund buys medical activity from end-user, in this case both hospitals, at prices defined under the National Framework Contract (NDA) and in contractual relations between two parties notice, commercial companies, they can negotiate higher prices. You can see where the difference will come from and where it will go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u142	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. - What's the line? I don't see any other speeches. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u143	Madam President, honourable Members! A new education degree has been established in our country for about 15 years.. Master of Health Management and the profession is Management in the field of health. The M.A. has the authority to be the manager or director of the highest form of hospital care. He can manage a diagnostic consulting center, but within the meaning of the Law he cannot manage the lowest collective form in health care. And that's why the proposal we're making is to give the M.A. to be the head of the medical centers as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u144	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. A line? Come in, Mr. Taskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u145	Madam President, honourable Members! Regarding Mr. Valeri Simeonov's proposal for the addition and participation of doctors with postgraduate qualification, I would like to ask you to listen to the opinion that we commented on in the Health Commission, the Expert Council on Clinical Laboratory of the Bulgarian Society in Clinical Laboratory, namely: persons with Master's degree can work in the structures of the clinical laboratory in parallel with a doctor with the acquired specialty of the clinical laboratory, but cannot replace it and manage such structure. After all, the volume, duration and quality of the education concerned are not responsible for making this proposal. People with non-medical education do not have the competence to carry out this clinical activity. Please do not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u146	Thank you, Mr. Taskov. - What's the line? Mrs. Naydenova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u147	Colleague Taskov failed to say that this is also the opinion of the Minister of Health. I'm sorry he's gone again, but his opinion is also not to support the proposal of Mr. Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. There was such an understanding in the Commission, which I am pleased about.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u148	What's the line?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u149	That's the line. It was missed.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. A hole? I don't see any desire. Colleagues, we're going to vote. First, I put to the vote Mrs. Naydenova's unsupported proposal and a group of MPs. Vote 108 MPs: 35 against 60 abstentions 13. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Georgi Yordanov and a group of MPs. Vote 112 MPs: 36, against 72, abstention 4. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. They voted 113 MPs: 9 against 51, abstention 53. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u151	According to § 6 there is a proposal from the MP Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 7: .................................................... Article 3 is inserted in Chapter 3. 18a: Art. 18a. (1) Individual practice for health care shall be organized and carried out by a medical assistant, nurse, midwife or rehabilitator who have a minimum of three years of experience in the relevant professional field and which shall be registered in accordance with art. 40. (2) Group practice for health care shall be carried out by a commercial company or cooperative established by medical assistants and/or nurses, and/or midwives, and/or rehabilitators who have a minimum of three years of experience in the professional field concerned and which shall be registered in accordance with art. 40. (3) The types of activities to be carried out in the practices under para. 1 and 2 shall be determined in accordance with the regulation under art. 7, para. 1 of the Law on Word Organizations of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals, Dentists and Assistant Pharmacists. (4) The persons under para. 1 and 2 may employ other persons according to the needs and volume of activity of the practice. (5) Practices for healthcare under para. 1 and 2 may carry out the activities under para. 3 in the patient's home when the patient's condition requires this. (6) The structure, activity and internal order of group health practices shall be governed by rules established by the head of the medical establishment.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u152	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 6, which shall become § 7 of the Commission Report. They voted 105 MPs: 82, against 7, abstention 16. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u153	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: ##6a is created: ##6a: 6a. Chapter 6 of the National Health Card, regional health cards with art. 29 "34a" is hereby repealed. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), The National Health Card shall be updated as necessary in the cases specified by the methodology under art. 29, para. 6................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u154	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u155	Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I would like to take account of such proposals by an importer § 6a, which, if accepted, will be renumbered. Proposal for Paragraph 6a: Chapter Six "National Health Card, Regional Health Cards and Articles 29 to 34a, to be repealed, and we believe that its systematic place should be in the Health Act and should be further developed there. Why? Firstly, weaknesses of the current text in the Law on Medical Institutions. The national health card reflects only the needs of hospitals for hospital and outpatient care. It lacks health establishments and health offices in schools, kindergartens and nurseries, which are under the Health Act. Therefore, in this form it cannot claim to be national. Secondly, we will soon see a second reading of the PID of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, where it is proposed to create a National Pharmacy Card. Colleagues, pharmacies are health institutions under the Health Act, there are optics and others. Small Bulgaria needs a single National Health Card to reflect all the health needs of Bulgarian citizens, and its systematic place we believe should be in the founding law, namely in the Health Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs. They voted 109 MPs: 31, against 71, abstention 7. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the new § 8 proposed by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: 79, none, abstention 23. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u157	According to § 7 there is a proposal of the MP Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 words................................................................................. 1 letter (s) (i.e. point (b) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013) 2 (s) are replaced by (s) are replaced by (s) are replaced by (s) are replaced by (s) referred to in point (a) (i) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) 2. In para. 2: (a) in a sentence first, the words. 1 letter (s) (i.e. point (b) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013) 2 (s) are replaced by (s) are replaced by (s) are replaced by (s) are replaced by (s) referred to in point (a) (i) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (b) in the second sentence after the word "medical" the medical institutions referred to in Article 2 shall be added. 8, para. 1, t. 5 (a) are established by natural persons "medical assistants, nurses, midwives or rehabilitators." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 10. Dear Madam President, I am making the following editorial proposal in the text of the importer for § 8, which becomes § 10: to create a new item. 3, such as the other points to be renumbered, respectively 3 in para. 4 the words "al." 6 is replaced by para. 7.............................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 11. Once again, I have an editorial proposal concerning references which are identified as problematic when examining the report by experts. To create a new t. 3, such as the other points to be renumbered, respectively 3 in para. 4 the words "al." 6 is replaced by para. 7.............................................................................. According to §10 there is a proposal of the MP Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 40 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 t. Six is canceled. 2. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: Within 10 days of receipt of the application under para. 1 The regional health inspection shall carry out a check for compliance with health requirements and established medical standards by the medical establishment, verify the existence of a licence for the use of sources of ionizing radiation for medical purposes, where the medical establishment will use medical equipment with a source of ionizing radiation, and issue a certificate. Where it is established that the health requirements and/or established medical standards have not been complied with in the medical establishment or the medical establishment has not been granted a licence to use sources of ionising radiation for medical purposes, the regional health inspection shall provide prescriptions and set a time limit for the removal of irregularities which may not be longer than three months. 3. In para. The 5th sentence first words next to the Bulgarian Association of Health Care Professionals are replaced by the Bulgarian Association of Health Care Professionals and the Bulgarian Association of Dentists and the words "or midwives" shall be replaced by the students, rehabilitators or dentists. 4. In para. 6 t. 3 is repealed. Under Paragraph 11, there is a proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made in accordance with Article 11. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 41, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 after the word "code', a single registration number is added. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5 after the words. The following shall be added: 3. point 6 is amended as follows: It's six. the medical specialities in which the medical establishment operates; The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 14. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. 83, para 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 44, para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1. point 3 is amended as follows: "3." where discrepancies are identified with the requirements of this law, with the health requirements and/or with the established medical standards under art. 6, para. 1 which has not been removed within the term referred to in Article 1. 40, para. 4, 9 or 10; 2. Point 4 is repealed. According to § 13 there is a proposal of the MP Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 45, para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1. point 1 is amended as follows: "1." where the regional college of the word organization has deleted from the register the doctor, the dentist, the medical assistant, the nurse, the midwife or the rehabilitator who established the medical establishment under art. 8, para. 1, t. 1 letter (s), point (c), point (d), point (e), point (i) and point (i) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013. 2 (a), (b) and (c) 5 letter (s) and 5 letter (s) and 5 letter (s). 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 words. The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Implementing The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 17. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u158	Statements? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote, fellow Members. First, I shall put to the vote the version of § 7, which shall become § 9 of the Commission Report. They voted 104 MPs: for 81, against none, abstention 23. The motion is accepted. Now we will vote § 8, which becomes § 10. First, we will vote on the editorial amendment in the text of the importer, which Mrs Daritkova just read. They voted 102 MPs: 81, none, abstention 21. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 8 with the corresponding editorial amendment, which shall become § 10, supported by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: 78, none, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. I'm putting the editorial amendment to the vote. We will vote on § 9 which becomes § 11, but first we will vote on the editorial amendment, which Mrs Daritkova reported earlier. Vote 85 MPs: 79, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the text of the importer for § 9 which becomes § 11 with the corresponding editorial amendment, which we voted on a short time ago, the text is supported by the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: 77, none against, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote: the version of § 10, which becomes § 12 of the Commission Report; the version of § 11, which becomes § 13 of the Commission Report; the text of the importer for § 12, which becomes § 14, supported by the Commission; the creation of a new § 15; the version of § 13, which becomes § 16 of the Commission Report; the text of the importer for paragraphs 14 and 15, which become paragraphs 17 and 18. They voted 100 MPs: 79, none against, abstention 21. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u159	Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 19: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 51, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 Finally added s/or repeated violation of health requirements. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5 the figure "six' is replaced by three is replaced by 3. A t is created. 7. "7." the legal person is terminated. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 20. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 21. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18 which shall become § 22. According to § 19 there is a proposal of the MP Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19, which shall become § 23: "23." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 100, para. 2 is created t. 7. "7." ongoing repair of fixed tangible assets of a municipal hospital for outpatient care or hospital care.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u160	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote: the newly created § 19 and the text of the importer for paragraphs 16, 17 and 18, which become respectively paragraphs 20, 21 and 22, supported by the Commission, and the version of § 19, which becomes § 23 of the Commission Report. They voted 103 MPs: for 81, against none, abstention 22. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u161	Under paragraph 20, there is a proposal of the MP Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: In Paragraph 20, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 4 is amended as follows: "4." In para. 4 the Ministry of Youth and Sports is added at the end. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 106a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the word "supplied' is replaced by "supplied' and the word "supplied' is replaced by "supplied'. 2. In para. The 3 sentence is created second: For medical expertise carried out by TELK, the Ministry of Health can subsidize state and municipal complex cancer centers. Under paragraph 21, there is a proposal of the MP Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: In § 21 in the creations art. 106b, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In the main sentence, first, the word "state' shall be replaced by the words "health institutions'. 2. A new t. is created. 5. It's five o'clock. health care establishments related to national health security; The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 21, which shall become § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 3 is replaced by the following: 106b: Art. 106b. (1) The Council of Ministers shall, on a proposal from the Minister of Health, determine by decision a state medical establishment to carry out: 1. medical insurance for travel in the country and abroad of persons under art. 20, para. 1, 3 and 4 of the National Security Service Act; 2. medical provision of representatives of another country with a rank corresponding to the rank of the persons under point 2. 1, and heads of international organisations and institutions on a visit to the Republic of Bulgaria; 3. medical provision of the plenary meetings of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria; 4. medical assistance of the persons referred to in paragraph 4. 1. (2) The implementation of the activities under para. 1, t. The State budget is financed through the budget of the Ministry of Health on the basis of a contract between the Minister of Health and the designated under para. One medical facility. (3) By order of para. 2 is also funded the medical assistance provided under para. 1, t. 4 except hospital medical care, which is paid by the National Health Insurance Fund. (4) The costs of secondment of doctors in the cases under para. 1, t. 1 shall be at the expense of the relevant office and in the cases under para. 1, t. 2 of the office at whose invitation is the visit. (5) The activities of medical insurance in the cases under para. 1, t. 1 and 2 shall be carried out after notification by the National Security Service of the designated by the order of para. 1 medical establishment, and in the cases under para. 1, t. 3 medical activities shall be carried out for all regular and extraordinary plenary sessions of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u162	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova, for your speech. You can make speeches on both paragraphs that Dr. Daritkova read.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u163	Dear colleagues, in the Commission we have not been able to get an answer and now there is no representative of the importer in the Chamber to tell us: Orthopedic Hospital, Traumatology and Sports Medicine who does Professor Shoylev belong to?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u164	To the state!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u165	To the state?! Then she's under art. 5, para. One, why are we missing it? [[Relations from the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov.]] Which member? Article 5 simple! So, so much for that. As regards § 21. Dear colleagues, there are also external representations in Bulgaria outside Sofia. There is one in Varna, in Ruse, there is one in Plovdiv. Therefore, it cannot be the designated state-owned medical institution....................................................................................................................................................................... 20, para. 1, 3 and 4 of the National Security Service Act. That is why we propose that the word "stately" be replaced by "health institutions." Secondly, on the basis of today's crisis situation, which is already subsiding, we propose in the new item. 5 of art. 106, point (b) (i) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u166	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote first the unsupported proposal of Mrs. Naydenova and a group of MPs. Voted 103 MPs: 34 against 67 abstentions 2. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version of § 20, which shall become § 24 of the Commission Report. 90 MPs voted: 73, against 1, abstention 16. The motion is accepted. We're going to vote on § 21. First, I put to the vote Mrs. Naydenova's unsupported proposal and a group of MPs. Vote 94 MPs: 21, against 69, abstention 4. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version of § 21, which shall become § 25 of the Commission Report. Vote 94 MPs: 79, no objection, abstention 15. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u167	Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to set up new paragraphs 26 and 27: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 115a is repealed. § 27. Article 116a is repealed. Under § 22, there is a proposal of the MP Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 22, which shall become § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 116h " 116k: Art. 116z. In a medical establishment under art. 6, para. 8 which does not provide or provide information to the National Council on prices and reimbursement of medicinal products for a medicinal product for which the effect of therapy is monitored, a penalty of 500 to 1000 BGN is imposed within the time limit, and when the same infringement is repeated with a penalty of 1500 to 3000 BGN. Art. 116th. (1) Who does not provide or prevent the provision of information under art. 5, para. Art. 5, art. 6, para. Art. 3, 4 and 4a and art. 69, para. 2, p. 8, is punished with a fine of 300 to 800 BGN, and if the same infringement is repeated with a fine of 1000 to 1500 BGN. (2) When the infringement under para. 1 is carried out by a sole trader, a penalty of 500 to 1000 BGN is imposed, and when the same infringement is carried out again with a penalty of 1200 to 2500 BGN. (3) When the infringement under para. 1 was carried out by a legal person, a penalty of 1000 to 2000 BGN is imposed, and when the same infringement is carried out again with a penalty of 1500 to 3000 BGN. Art. 116k. (1) He who violates the provisions of this law or of a regulation on its application, other than those referred to in art. A fine of 300 to 1000 BGN is a fine for 116 and a fine of 1500 to 3000 BGN is a fine for the same infringement. (2) When the infringement under para. 1 is carried out by a sole trader, a penalty of 500 to 1000 BGN is imposed, and when the same infringement is carried out again with a penalty of 1500 to 3000 BGN. (3) When the infringement under para. 1 is carried out by a legal person, a penalty of 1500 to 3000 BGN is imposed and if the same infringement is repeated with a penalty of 3000 to 5000 BGN. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23 which shall become § 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u168	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u169	Madam President, honourable Members! In principle, I support the idea of sanctioning non-information. In this sense, Professor Ivanov's interest is valid for this clause in the Bill, but it is related to one previous associate Professor Ivanov, who we voted about an hour ago. You remember, there was something in it that made an impression on me, but you can't comment on everything in the Chamber because we probably won't finish the Bill today... that the information should be submitted within 24 hours. Do you realize as a person who is intelligent, who has been in a medical facility, who has worked in it, in the current conditions of lack of a centralised information system, of the presence of dozens of medicines that are used and whose effect is being tracked down, you know that the leaves are not at all small, what does that mean as a manipulation mechanism, not to say the exact word, about the medical establishment, if there is even one fact, a molecule, which at this point in these 24 hours is insufficiently processed, unsent in due order, to call it a sholastic order?! These refined ones, which are made here by both the Commission and you, must be carefully considered in my opinion, as indeed the information supply system is still very clumsy. It is very clumsy, Associate Professor Ivanov, to you I address personally, as I see that you are an importer, and this creates conditions literally for administrative manipulation of medical institutions. Many of them are engaged in extremely severe medical activities, extremely problematic patients, and you know this will further create in conversation, in doctors a negative attitude. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u170	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Colleagues, we're going to vote. I put to the vote the creation of new paragraphs 26 and 27; the version of § 22, which becomes 28 under the Commission Report; and the text of the importer for § 23, which becomes § 29, supported by the Commission. They voted 103 MPs: for 83, against none, abstention 20. The proposals have been accepted. Colleagues, I'm calling a half-hour break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u171	We're continuing the hearing. We start with § 24.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am reporting a proposal to the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: In § 24, Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions: 2. In § 1, t is created. 13.. 29: "13." "Free medical care" is a medical activity in which the patient has paid in advance through insurance contributions or purchased insurance policies. 14. It is a system in which the sufferer, with the help of a doctor and/or healthcare professional, can effectively use the available knowledge and resources to restore the functionality of his or her organism. 15. Health is a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being, not just a lack of disease or weakness. 16. "Health care" is an activity provided by specialists from Union professional fields who hold the relevant professional qualification, according to the medical profession, certified with a diploma for acquired higher education of the educational and qualification degree "Bachelor" under art. 42, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Higher Education or with a certificate of professional qualification issued under the Law on Vocational Education and Training, nationals of a Member State of the European Union, other countries of the European Economic Area and Switzerland, as well as a certificate of recognition of specialization, where there is one issued by the Minister of Health under the Law on recognition of professional qualifications. Professional realization is carried out after entry in the register for recognition of professional qualifications. 17. A healthy service is a paid action for actions carried out related to the immediate state of health of the person. 18. "Health and social services' are activities in which health requirements, medical standards and for which the financial resource is provided by the budget of the................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 19. The term of a person who holds the educational-qualification degree, Master of Medicine and Master of Dental Medicine (Stomology) and has the right to perform medical activities, exercises the medical profession related to the health of the patient. 20. It is an activity provided by professionals from Union professional fields, by dentists and dentists, citizens of a Member State of the European Union, other countries of the European Economic Area and Switzerland who hold the relevant professional qualification, by medical profession, as well as a certificate of recognition of specialization in the presence of one issued by the Minister of Health under the Law on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications. Professional realization is carried out after entry in the register for recognition of professional qualifications. 21. Medical activity is a process of providing medical assistance. 22. Medical care is an activity in the diagnosis, treatment, rehabilitation or care of a patient provided by a doctor and/or healthcare professional in compliance with health requirements and established medical standards. 23. "Medical service" is a paid action with which medical assistance has been carried out. 24. "Medical specialist" is a person who is a summary term of a person from a Union professional districts who holds the relevant professional qualification, according to a professional profession, certified with a diploma for the acquired higher education of an education degree of Bachelor's degree, Master's degree and a specialist under the Higher Education Act. 25. "Medical services" are activities designed to increase the patient's level of satisfaction, the feeling that a medical service, a medicinal product and/or a medical device meets the patient's expectation. 26. The public service in the field of health is a medical activity which provides a public service by a public or municipal medical institution under the Public Enterprises Act. 27. Palliative care (from Latin: palliare, covering) is an area of health that focuses on the reduction and prevention of patient suffering. Unlike hospice care, palliative medicine is suitable for all stages of the disease, including those under treatment for curable diseases, and those who live with chronic diseases, as well as patients at the end of their lives. Palliative medicine has a multidisciplinary approach that relies on assistance from doctors, pharmacists, nurses, social workers, psychologists and other health professionals in formulating a care plan for reducing suffering in all areas of the patient's life. This multidisciplinary approach allows palliative care teams to meet the needs of the patient at his physical, emotional, spiritual level and in social terms, which occur in advanced diseases. 28. A regulated profession is a profession of a natural person within the meaning of Directive 2005/36/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 7 September 2005 on the recognition of professional qualifications exercising activities in the health sector limited to a regulated profession within the meaning of the definition of Article 3 (1) (a) of Directive 2005/36/EC and in § 1, point (c) of Article 3 (1). 1 of the Additional Provisions of the Law on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications. 29. "Hospis" (hospitum) is a type of medical facility in which medical and other specialists carry out continuous medical supervision, supportive treatment prescribed by a doctor to patients in terminal condition, with chronic debilitating diseases or medical-social problems, by providing palliative care for terminal patients and improving the quality of life in their last days. The proposal has been withdrawn under paragraph 1. 1. The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 2. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24, which shall become § 30: 30. Paragraph 1 of the Additional provision makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 words.............................................................................. The following points 2. A t is created. 12: ..12. "Teritory of a hospital for hospital care" within the meaning of art. 9, para. 6 is a regulated land estate and buildings built on it, intended for public healthcare services, where the hospital care facility carries out its activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u173	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. I'm opening a discussion under § 24. Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u174	My fellow Members, I understand the slow reading of the chairman of the Health Commission, but I would like to share with you the following. In so many years, many of the terminology in health care has not been cleared. There are no legitimate definitions concerning health care. For us as MPs, it would have been very easy for us just here and there to touch the Law on Medical Institutions or any other kind of law that concerns healthcare and to have enough time to look at other things. And maybe, I don't know, and I don't dare think that this is tendentical, but imagine, when it comes to a court dispute in this Chamber, the lack of legitimate definitions, we don't claim that what we offer is ideal, we've used different literature, I say, we don't claim, but the path is this one, we have to clear the laws that concern healthcare, and in each of them there are enough specialists in ministries, in the Council of Ministers. I'm not just talking about the Ministry of Health who can give these definitions. And I ask that we be understood why we throw the pebble and offer seemingly unacceptable definitions, but I say again, we have used different literature and cast the challenge, if not in this Parliament, then in the next.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u175	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. Any lines to that statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. We close the discussion and move on to the vote. First, I put to the vote Valentina Naydenova's proposal and a group of MPs under point. 2 of § 24, as t. One is withdrawn. 90 MPs voted: 20, against 65, abstention 5. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission proposal, which shall be the version of Mrs Daritkova's proposal, which shall become § 30. Vote 82 MPs: 68, none, abstention 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u176	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u177	We need to vote on text, as there may be speeches. Are there any statements on the name? I won't. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the division. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u178	According to § 25 the proposal of the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov and the group and MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the importer's text by proposing that § 25 be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 38.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u179	I shall put to the vote the motion to reject § 25. They voted 93 MPs: 89, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u180	Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 31: ........................ 31...................................................... The National Health Card of the Republic of Bulgaria, approved by the Council of Ministers until the entry into force of this Act, shall continue to take effect for an indefinite period of time and shall be updated in accordance with art. 34, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u181	I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 31. It would probably be faster for a few paragraphs to vote, but it's quite complicated to see the law, and I can't decide where there won't be any problems, where there is. [[Noise and lines.]] Vote 92 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u182	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 26 be rejected. Proposal by Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) The medical establishments shall bring their activities into line with the medical standards laid down in art. 6, para. 1 within 6 months of their validation. (2) The Executive Agency shall carry out a check on the compliance of the medical establishment with the requirements of this Act and with the health requirements on an established schedule. Outside the schedule, an inspection may also be carried out at the request of the Minister of Health. (3) When finding discrepancies with the requirements of para. 2 The Executive Director of the Executive Agency shall set a deadline for their removal. Where the non-compliances are not resolved within the specified time limit, the Executive Director of the Executive Agency shall: 1. refuses to re-registered the medical establishment under art. 1. 39, para. 1, respectively the medical activity referred to in Article 1. 39, para. 2 and delete the registration of the medical establishment, respectively, of the medical activity; or 2. make a reasoned proposal to the Minister of Health for withdrawal of the authorisation for carrying out medical activities of the medical establishment under art. 46, para. 1 and for the deletion of the registration of the medical establishment under art. 39, para. 1 of the medical activity referred to in Article 1 respectively. 39, para. 2, or 3. make a reasoned proposal to the Minister of Health for withdrawal of the authorisation for carrying out medical activities of the medical establishment under art. 46, para. 1 in the part in which a violation of the requirements of para. 2. (4) The registration shall be deleted, respectively the authorisation shall be revoked, by writtenly reasoned order of the Executive Director of the Executive Agency. 3, p. 1 and 2 shall indicate the date from which the activity is terminated. (5) The order under para. 4 shall be subject to appeal before the administrative court concerned under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. (6) Within the term under para. 1 the chief authorising officers with a budget to which the directors of the relevant medical institutions under art. 5, para. 1 are secondary officers with a budget; they shall bring their activities in accordance with the requirements of para. 2. (7) When establishing compliance with the requirements of para. 2 The authorisation to carry out medical activities of the medical establishment under art. 46, para. 1 and the certificate of registration of the medical establishment under art. 39, para. 1 of the medical activity referred to in Article 1 respectively. 39, para. 2, retains its action.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u183	Statements on both paragraphs? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I will ask that if colleagues keep some of the paragraphs separate to be voted on, we will take a few. I shall put to the vote the motion to reject § 26 and to create a new § 32. 99 MPs voted: 96, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u184	Proposal by Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 33: ................................................ (1) Until 31 August 2020: 1. The Bulgarian Medical Union, respectively the Bulgarian Dental Union, adopts rules for good medical practice and proposes them for approval by the Minister of Health; 2. The Bulgarian pharmaceutical union adopts rules for good pharmaceutical practice and proposes them for approval by the Minister of Health; 3. The Bulgarian Association of Healthcare Professionals, the Bulgarian Association of Dentists and the Bulgarian Association of Assistant Pharmacists adopt rules for good medical practice in healthcare in the relevant professional field and offer them for validation by the Minister of Health. (2) When within the term under para. 1 the relevant advisory organisations under para. 1 do not propose for validation by the Minister of Health adopted by them rules of good medical practice, the same shall be prepared by the Executive Agency "Medical supervision" and shall be proposed for approval by the Minister of Health within three months of the expiry of the period under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u185	I now propose that we vote on this paragraph as the next has an unsupported proposal. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 33. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u186	Under § 27, there is a proposal by Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 27: (a) New t. is created. 1 and 2 etc. 3.. 13: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4 para. 1 is amended as The compulsory health insurance ensures universal access to health care of health insured persons by type, scope and volume of package of health activities, as well as free choice of contractor who has concluded a contract with a regional health insurance fund. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5 the following amendments and additions are made: a) Previous text becomes para. 1. (b) the creation of para. 2: The compulsory health insurance is implemented through a fund organisation and management of the funds. "3." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 para. 3 and 4 are amended as follows: The NHIF management bodies shall be: 1. the Supervisory Board; 2. the manager and the concierge. (4) The manager and the governor shall be appointed by the Supervisory Board and the employees of the central management, the regional health insurance funds and their units shall take up positions of office or employment relationship, and the employees of the employment relationship shall be subject to art. 107a of the Labor Code. The manager, the governor and the employees of the NHIF cannot compete with the NHIF and cannot be the performers of medical care under this law. 4. Art. 13 is amended as follows: Art. 13. (1) The Supervisory Board of the NHIF shall: 1. is a body that performs supervisory functions in relation to the organisation, management and financing of the compulsory health insurance system; 2. exercise control over the activities of the NHIF, the manager and the governor; 3. consists of seven members of the two representatives of the representative organizations of the employees, of the employers, and three representatives of the state appointed by the Council of Ministers, such as one of the Deputy Minister of Health. (2) The representatives of the State shall be appointed and released by a decision of the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Health. (3) The representatives of the organizations of the employees and of the representative organizations of the employers under para. 1, t. 3 shall be selected and released by the management bodies of the organisations at national level. (4) In cases of early termination of the term of office of the Governor of the NHIF, the Supervisory Board shall appoint the Governor of the NHIF temporarily to act as the Governor of the NHIF. (5) Where representative organisations of employees or employers are different numbers, the lower number of organisations' quota shall be supplemented up to the quota of organisations with a higher number by agreement between the organisations concerned. (6) In the absence of an agreement under para. 5 supplementing the quota of national representative organisations with a smaller number shall not be carried out and the composition of the Supervisory Board shall be quantified by the Minister of Health. (7) It shall adopt internal rules on its work defining the scope of powers and responsibilities of the Supervisory Board. (8) Members of the Supervisory Board of the NHIF may be natural persons who: 1. have acquired higher education with an educational-qualification degree. 2. have at least 15 years of proven (management, research and teaching) competence in the management of insurance relations and insurance cash flows, as well as in large organisational structures in healthcare; 3. may take responsibility for the results of the activities of the NHIF. (9) Members of the Supervisory Board of the NHIF shall not be natural persons who are members of a labour or bonding relationship with a word organization of the regulated profession concerned in the sector of the NHIF and shall not be in conflict of interest with the activities of the NHIF. The circumstances shall be certified by a declaration. (10) Natural persons, members of the Supervisory Board, except designated and appointed by decision of the Council of Ministers, may be only one term. (11) The members of the Supervisory Board shall elect from their composition the Chair alternately, with a one-year term of office. (12) The name composition of the Supervisory Board, as well as the changes thereto, shall be promulgated by its President in the Official Journal. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: (a) point 2 is amended as follows: "2." approve the national framework contracts and the annexes thereto, and return to the reviewers in case of non-approval; (b) point 4 is amended as follows: "4." approve the six-month and annual accounts for the implementation of the budget of the NHIF and the six-month and annual reports on the activities of the NHIF, which are submitted by the Governor of the NHIF through the Minister of Health and the Council of Ministers in the National Assembly for discussion and adoption; [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u187	Can you stop for a second, Mrs. Daritkova? Colleagues, there are six more pages of text from this paragraph. It's too loud in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u188	If Dr. Naydenova doesn't withdraw them to relieve us...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u189	Well, if she hasn't withdrawn them by now, she probably won't withdraw them now either. My point is simply to ask you to keep it really quiet, because it makes it difficult for us and the stenographers and I suppose Mrs Daritkova too.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u190	(c) create a t. 5c: ? 5c. on a proposal from the manager, the Supervisory Board of the NHIF shall decide on setting the prices for the provision of information services under art. 64, para. 4 of this Law; (d) point 6 is amended as follows: It's six. determine the functions of the manager on a proposal from the manager; (e) points 15 ..15. Approves agreements on deferral of claims and obligations to the countries of the European Union, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation and on bilateral social security agreements/contracts covered by their health insurance; 16. Agrees with the appointment and release of the Head of the Internal Audit Unit and the Head of the Inspectorate of the NHIF; 17. On a proposal from the Minister of Health, the Minister of Health shall decide on the payment of medical activities carried out and reported in the event of non-military crises. 18. It confirms the competitive rules for the conclusion of contracts with medical aid contractors on the territory served by the RHIF as well as the rules for the modification and termination of contracts. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 16 the following amendments and additions are made: (a) para. 4 is amended as follows: In the meetings of the Supervisory Board, the Governor of the NHIF shall also participate in the meetings of the NHIF with an advisory vote, and in the absence of the same rights, the Governor shall have the same rights. (b) the creation of para. 7. The activities of the Supervisory Board shall be supported by an analytical department, part of the structure and composition of the NHIF as defined by the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the NHIF. If necessary, the manager of the NHIF may entrust him with analyses relating to the operational activity of the NHIF. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19 the following amendments and additions are made: (a) in para. 3, p. 2 the figure (b) in para. 7 the following amendments and additions are made: - points 4 and 6 are amended as follows: "4." draw up a six-month and annual financial report, a six-month and annual report on the implementation of the NHIF budget and a six-month and annual report on the activities of the NHIF and submit them to the Supervisory Board for examination and approval; It's six. prepare and submit to the Supervisory Board a draft organisational structure, a draft Rules on the structure and operation of the NHIF and after their adoption promulgate them in the Official Journal of the European Union; - It's creating a t. 19: "19." The Governor of the NHIF receives basic monthly remuneration in the amount of the basic monthly remuneration of the Chair of a Standing Parliamentary Commission. (c) the creation of para. 8. The Managing Director of the NHIF shall answer questions and questions of Members of the National Assembly in plenary. 8. Art. 19a is amended as follows: Art. 19a. (1) The Governor of the NHIF shall organise and manage the operational activities of the NHIF during the absence of the manager in accordance with the functions entrusted to him by the manager and approved by the Supervisory Board. (2) A Governor of the NHIF may be a person meeting the following requirements: 1. there is a completed higher education with an educational-qualification degree 2. have a minimum of five years of professional experience in health, banking, insurance or insurance management; 3. is not in conflict of interest with the activities of the NHIF. (3) The Governor of NHIF shall be elected by the National Assembly for a period of 4 years. On expiry of the term of office, the NHIF Governor shall continue to perform his duties until the election of a new governor. (4) Proposals for the election of the NHIF's sub-governor may be made by the parliamentary groups. (5) The Governor of the NHIF shall receive a basic monthly remuneration of the basic monthly remuneration of the Member of the National Assembly. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20, para. 1, t. 4 is amended as follows: "4." conclude, amend and terminate contracts with medical institutions, medical aid contractors included and meeting the requirements of the National Health Card of the Area served by the RHIF under the NHIF Budget Act for the relevant year, the LDC, the Rules of Procedure and the activities of the NHIF against a competition under rules established by the Supervisory Board. 10. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 21a: Art. 21a. (1) A Management Board shall be set up to support the operational activity of the manager and the manager in the field of the organisation, management and financing of the NHIF; (2) Members of the Governing Board shall be the manager, sub-manager, directors of the RHIF and managers with management functions in the central management of the NHIF; (3) The Governing Council shall meet at least once a quarter. (4) External assistants may be drawn to the operational work of the Governing Council. (5) The Head of the Management Board shall be the Governor of the NHIF and, in his absence, the Governor. 11. Art. 30 is amended as follows: Art. 30 (1) The reports under this law shall be submitted by the Governor of the NHIF through the Minister of Health and the Council of Ministers to the National Assembly within the following deadlines: 1. The six-month budget implementation report and the NHIF activity report shall be submitted by 30 September of the accounting year. 2. The annual report on the implementation of the budget and the activity report of the NHIF shall be submitted no later than 30 June of the following year. (2) The six-month and annual reports on the activities of the NHIF shall be presented together with the corresponding reports on the implementation of the NHIF budget. (3) The NHIF activity report shall include: 1. balances for the period of the previous year (debit/credit); 2. balances over the current year period (debit/credit); 3. final balances on the relationship (debit/credit); 4. detailed estimates (claims/liabilities) with the countries of the European Union, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation and under bilateral social security agreements/contracts covered by their health insurance; 5. the number and amounts of revenue by budget classification for the same period of the previous year and for the current period; 6. the number and amounts of differentiated costs of health insurance payments for the same period of the previous year and for the current period; 7. the activity report shall state information on the number of persons treated in the EU, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation and on bilateral social security agreements/contracts, including health insurance by country of Bulgarian citizens (total) and the amounts paid for them by the NHIF, as well as the number of treated EU citizens, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation, in Bulgaria and the amount (total) paid by them. 8. others. (4) The examination and adoption by the National Assembly of the report on the implementation of the budget and the report on the activities of the NHIF shall be carried out until the first vote on the budget of the NHIF for the following year. (5) The decision of the National Assembly to adopt the report on the implementation of the budget and the report on the activities of the NHIF shall be published in the Official Journal. 12. Art. 53 is amended as follows: Art. 53 (1) For the implementation of the activities provided for in this Law, the NHIF and the word organizations of the respective regulated professions in the sector................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ (2) National framework contracts shall be adopted for a period of one year for the period of the financial year and shall, where necessary, be updated according to the order of its adoption. 13. Art. 54 is amended as follows: Art. 54. (1) National framework contracts shall be drawn up by committees participating in: three representatives of the NHIF, one of the representative organisations of doctors, dentists, pharmacists, representative organisations of medical professionals, representative organisations for the protection of patients' rights and two representatives of the Ministry of Health. (2) The committees shall be appointed by order of the Minister of Health and the specific participants shall be proposed by the relevant organisations. (3) In the committees under para. 1 natural persons who are in conflict of interest with the NHIF may not participate. The circumstances of a conflict of interest shall be certified by a declaration. (4) The committees may attract additional consultants to resolve specific objectives and tasks during the development of the LDC. (5) The procedure for drawing up national framework contracts shall coincide with the budgetary procedure for the following budgetary year. (6) The procedure for drawing up the draft National Framework Treaty shall end on 31 December prior to the year to which it relates. (7) Financial estimates for the volumes, prices and values shall be an integral part of national framework contracts and shall not exceed the values laid down in the National Health Insurance Fund Budget Act for the relevant year. (8) National framework contracts shall be adopted by a majority of those present under art. 54, para. 1. (9) National framework contracts shall be signed by the manager of the NHIF, by the heads of the word organizations of the respective regulated professions in the sector............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (10) The Minister of Health shall agree on the adopted in accordance with para. 1 "8 РРД" within 14 days of its presentation and promulgated them, such as the Annexes to the LDC, when provided for in the contract, are promulgated as a supplement only on the website of the Official Journal. The entire National Framework Treaty shall be published on the website of the NHIF. (11) The period of action of the National Framework Treaty coincides with the budget year of the Republic of Bulgaria according to art. 10 of the Public Finance Act begins on 1 January and ends on 31 December of the relevant year. (12) Where the National Framework Treaty is not adopted under the conditions and within the time limits laid down in this Law, the existing (acting) LDCs shall apply. (13) Where changes to the legislation in force occur during the implementation of the existing national framework contracts within one month on a proposal from the manager of the NHIF, the parties to the contract shall sign an annex to the LDC. (14) In the event that the relevant National Framework Treaty is not signed within the period laid down by the law and there are changes in the legislation in force that do not allow the implementation of the LDC from the previous year, after a decision of the Supervisory Board, the NHIF Governor shall draw up a draft decision and regulation for determining the volumes and prices at which the funds determined by the National Health Insurance Fund budget Act for the relevant year will be spent and submit them to the Minister of Health for Coordination and Import to the Council of Ministers for Decision-making. (15) The National Framework Treaty shall be drawn up in accordance with the order of para. 14, in case the Rules of Good Medical Practice and/or the Rules of Good Medical Practice of Dentists under art. 5 of the Law on word organizations of doctors and dentists are not adopted by the relevant word organization and are not in force. (16) The National Framework Treaty on Medical Activities and the National Framework Treaty on Dental Activities shall include only medical and dental activities for which there are accepted, updated and entered into force pharmaco-therapeutic guidelines under art. 259, para. 1, t. 4 of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. For medical and dental activities which are not accepted or updated and enter into force pharmaco-therapeutic guidelines, para. 14. 14. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 55 the following amendments shall be made: - It's creating a t. 1: "1." Al. 1 is amended as follows: The national framework contracts shall consist of at least two parts: 1. Rights and obligations of the NHIF, the Bulgarian Medical Union for the provision of medical assistance financed by financial resources from the NHIF; 2. Rights and obligations of the NHIF, the Bulgarian dental union for providing dental assistance financed by the financial resources of the NHIF; 15. Art. 55a is amended as follows: Art. 55a. (1) The National Health Insurance Fund shall carry out the following actions annually for the needs of the National Framework Treaty: 1. At the time of the budgetary procedure, the NHIF valued according to the method of the current prices the price of the medical activity, such as the "capitation", the "clinical path", the "clinical procedures", the "ambulatory procedures" and others, without including the element profit and providing it to the contractual partners in the conclusion of the National Framework Treaty (NDA). The NHIF shall provide the contractual partners and the output data used to determine the price (s) of the medical activity. 2. The value of the medical activity shall be included as a separate element the cost of the work of doctors, medical professionals and non-medical professionals (basic salary and other payments under the Labour Code) determined by the collective contract for the year concerned, such as the basic salary: (a) for a person holding an educational-qualification degree, the Bachelor's degree may not be less than the average salary for the country; (b) for a person holding an educational-qualification degree of Master and not less than two average salaries for the country in the previous year. 3. The value of the medical activity shall be included as separate elements and the specific values of medicinal products and medical devices defined under art. 261f of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine and art. 30b of the Medical Products Act. 4. An integral part of the NHIF's budget is the natural indicators defined under point (c). 1. (2) The readings under para. 1 serve the NHIF to plan, negotiate and pay the contract partners medical assistance under art. 55, para. 2, p. 2 at the expense of insured persons within the limits of the volumes agreed in national framework contracts and in accordance with the NHIF's budget for the relevant year. (3) The National Health Insurance Fund shall not pay for medical and dental assistance provided by the medical institutions in violation of the contracts referred to in their art. 59, para. 1 volumes and values. (d) the so-called t. 2 becomes t. 16. 16. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 63, para. 1, t. 4 the following text is added after the NHIF: as well as prices and the volumes of medicinal products and medical devices paid under the NHIF budget. (e) create a t. 17 17. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 64 is created. 4 Other than the cases referred to in para. 1, 2 and 3 NHIF shall provide to natural and legal persons for payment information and consultation by the information system under art. 63 according to a price signature approved by the NHIF Supervisory Board. The price signature shall be published on the NHIF website. (5) The information and references under para. 4 may not contain personal data within the meaning of art. 4 t. 1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation) (OJ L 119/1 of 4 May 2016).) (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009. 18. Additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: (a) the following amendments shall be made to § 1: point 2 is amended as follows: "2." A package of health activities guaranteed by the budget of the NHIF are defined by type and scope of treatment activities, by individual specialities, activities for the treatment of certain diseases or of a group of diseases defined in art. 45 of this law, paid by the NHIF and developed in the National Framework Treaty, for which the patient does not pay for the receipt of the medical care. point 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. Compulsory health insurance contributions are public funds for the achievement of public objectives. point 14 is amended as follows: It's 14 years old. The guarantee holder shall be any natural person, legal person or non-personalised company, as well as other organisations which have an obligation by law to contribute insurance contributions to other natural persons. - they're creating a t. 30 - 38: 30. The National Health Insurance Fund is a medical institution registered in accordance with Section II of the Medical Institutions Act and concluded a contract with the National Health Insurance Fund for the provision of medical services to the health insured persons financed by the National Health Insurance Fund under art. 55a of this law. 31. "Prospective inability" (art. 328, p. Twelfth of CT and Art. 89 of the DPA) is available when under a bilateral contract (work, management contract, etc.), if one party's obligation is repaid due to failure to comply, the contract shall be broken down by law. This means that there is a new situation other than the time of conclusion of the labour contract and the real implementation of the arrangements has become impossible. The reasons that caused it are insurmountable to and from the parties because they arise from sources and factors that are not subject to their will. 32. "Representative organizations for the protection of the rights of patients" are organizations meeting the conditions of art. 86b of the Health Act. 33. The relevant regulated profession in the sector shall be organised under the following conditions: 1. The Law on Word Organizations of Doctors and Doctors of Dental Medicine. 2. The Law on Word Organizations of Master Pharmacists. 3. The Law on Word Organizations of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals, Dentists and Assistant Pharmacists. 34. "Constructional voice" means that the person does not participate in the vote. 35. supplier structure is a term directly related to the management processes in each organisation. It determines the number and shape of all units associated with the process of its activity. The organizational structure of an organisation depends on all its effectiveness. 36. "Universal access to healthcare' (Universal health care, universal health care, universal coverage or universal care) is a health insurance system in which all citizens of a particular country or region have access to health services when they need them, without having a financial difficulty in doing so, financed through shared health insurance contributions. 37. It is a manual for systemic pharmaco-therapeutic treatment, regardless of which treatment facility the patient is treated in. 38. The company is a natural person, a specialist with higher or secondary pharmaceutical education, who has the right to engage in pharmaceutical activities, a manufacturer, a wholesaler and the last participant in the distribution network (pharmacies) or the end user (medicine/patient), medicinal products and medical devices for single use in medicine. (b) Paragraph 1b. 6 is amended as follows: It's six. "Patient" is any natural person he has sought, to whom he or she appears or has received medical assistance in a Member State. Registration of a person as a patient takes place with his informed consent, except in cases specified by law. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 27, which shall become § 34: ................. In the Health Insurance Act (prom., SG No. ...), in art. 58 after the words........................................................................................................ 8, para. 1, t. 5 of the Medical Services Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u191	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. Statements on the paragraph presented? Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u192	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! It would have been easier if by now all these things had been heard by the MPs before us and it had been read in a slightly different way the Health Insurance Act, but it hasn't been touched in years anyway. Now what you've heard is another reading and a different angle proposal. Let me briefly summarize what we're proposing. First, the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund shall include representatives of the insurers, insured and of the State. The Supervisory Board shall not involve the users of the financial resources managed by the National Health Insurance Fund, namely the word organisations. The national framework contract to be made, notice, the term is not signed. It is produced by representatives of the National Health Insurance Fund, the Council of Ministers and representatives of the word organizations, and here we give the opportunity to participate in the preparation of the word organizations of nurses and midwives. We give the opportunity if the contract is then presented for validation in the Supervisory Board and there are remarks, it may be returned to the work. In fact, we are introducing two-tier management of the financial resource into the National Health Insurance Fund, something similar to the principles laid down in the management of the National Insurance Institute. Next thing we know, it's the National Health Insurance Fund to have a sub-manager. Finally, in order not to update, as recently the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund is being made, after the financial year has expired, we propose the Casa to present to the National Assembly and six-month reports for the implementation of the budget and the activity reports, and not only do we listen to the annual accounts and then have to make an update. Last but not least, we offer your attention to some legitimate definitions of active texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u193	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. - What's the line? Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u194	Dear Mrs. Naydenova, can you explain to us why you are constantly opposed to the fact that in a single law, other laws are being changed into Transitional and Final Regulations, and you have not only rewritten the entire law here without sparing any of the laws in the health care system, do you think that only under the Law on Medicinal Products and on medical devices you have no proposals, and have rearranged the entire health system? If you have an idea what it should look like, why not make your proposal, from your parliamentary group, about the new image of the health system? I can't comment on all the things I've read because I'm really amazed at how a pharmacist can be a natural person with an educational degree and a Master and a Bachelor. They're called assistant pharmacists, as far as I know. But I cannot understand the logic that the President of the Cassate should be elected by the National Assembly and that the Governor should be appointed by the Supervisory Board?! This fundamental idea, if you could explain it, I'd be very grateful.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u195	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. Any other lines? I can't see. Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova, if you like.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u196	I'll only answer two things. First, who will sign the contract of the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund and who will sign it? If anyone can answer that, I'll stop there. Secondly, Mrs. Daritkova, only within an hour, your committee, appointed by you, has tabled so many changes to various new members, new paragraphs that have not passed at all at second reading in the Committee on Health. [[Reply from rapporteur Daniela Daritkova: "They are technical. "]] No, it's not just technical. Violation comes from you too often, so it is not only with one law to change others. Well, we're looking at what you're doing, but that's within the joke.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u197	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. Mr. Ivanov has the floor to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u198	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I must tell you that in this bill I am amazed by the inconsistencies and the non-systemic place of all the proposals that have been made here. In fact, in all my practice as a lawmaker, I've never seen such a turlu gourmet. In addition, I want to say that I am raising questions and amazement, I will read: The compulsory health insurance is implemented through a fund organization. I won't comment. Again, there are interesting reasonings about the management of the NHIF and the way of selecting the NHIF authorities, unprecedented confusion in the selection of leadership. I will also read something that actually made a strong impression on me: the members of the Supervisory Board in the NHIF cannot be individuals who are members of a labour or bonding relationship with the word organization of the relevant regulated profession in the sector I just can't find words, and I'm gonna ask them to give me a line to clarify these new concepts. I will read again: The NHIF Governor is elected by the National Assembly for a period of four years. Everything is done in the opposite direction here. The Supervisory Board elects the President, the Vice-President of the Health Insurance Fund is elected by the National Assembly. Nonsense! I can give a number of more examples. I call on my fellow Member to withdraw the other proposals, as it represents an authoritative political force. I think what is being presented to us here today from the stands, personally, I have always been correct to our opponents, but such a work has never been given to us. Ms. Naydenova, I beg you politely to withdraw the other proposals, as we have 18 more pages to read and which do not differ from what we have read so far. I hope I can find an understanding in your face. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u199	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? Here you are, Professor Mikhailov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u200	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Associate Professor Ivanov, I agree with this, and you will agree that each MP has the opportunity to submit its own legislative proposals. They being characterized by someone in plenary is not particularly correct, arguments against their proposals may be sought. There are many problems here about the reference activity of the National Assembly, which we can comment on, but I would like to give you the best attention. As you said, all this Turlu Guvec started at the initiative of your party with the adoption of the NHIF Budget Act, which we submitted to the Constitutional Court, and six by six divided the judges. I do not want to comment on all the corridor rumours about this decision that I have heard, but I will not comment on them in the Chamber to see that this initiative through one law As the Bulgarian people say, this cloth led her to your political power through a law. We are talking here about extremely serious laws that are decided in Transitional and Final Regulations. This must cease to be a practice in the National Assembly. The other, you must have your arguments, I have shared with you my arguments too, but this must be stopped. Because here again, several laws are introduced in the Transitional Rules and action is carried out with them, which is absolutely contrary to you is the respected Mr. Tzipov, of all legal practice. This isn't right, and we have to stop it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u201	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. Another line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u202	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Professor Mikhailov, thank you for your criticism. You, in a sense, have the right, but here we are talking about legislative technique and forms of application. As for what I specifically did in my speech, I want to turn around again, and I do not believe that you have signed these things. I don't know, I haven't read which group of MPs. I don't think you'd actually find criticism in my speech. As for the fact that in a bill as an opportunity of technique is used and applied not always by the rules, I absolutely agree. We have an absolute contradiction here. You did the analogy with the example you gave. In this case, it wasn't very appropriate. Yes, there are, there are such techniques, but in this case there is simply a complete contradiction. The other thing I would like to say is that new concepts are introduced here, new definitions that in no way correspond to the laws and legitimate definitions, if you will, Mr. Mihailov. So my statement was in that sense. Again, I appeal to our MP, he does have the right to make a legislative initiative, but these initiatives must comply with the legal documents and legitimate definitions, because it has been built for years and has been done, and you know very well, starting, for example, from the Health Insurance Act, by going through the Law on Medical Institutions, going through the Law on Drugs in Human Medicine and not listing. We just want to rewrite new rules and new definitions right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u203	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Any other speeches? [[National Representative Valentina Naydenova wants the floor.]] You've already made a statement, Mrs. Naydenova. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. First, we vote on the proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs under § 27. They voted 106 MPs: 16 against 85, abstention 5. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal under § 27, which shall become § 34.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u204	They voted 102 MPs: 91, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u205	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 35. Under § 29, there is a proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: the following point is inserted after point 1 (Commission § 29. In the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 10a The following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In para. 1 a comma is finally placed and added to the list of separate parts included in the capital of the medical establishments included in Annex 1 to art. 3, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 2. In para. 2, p. 2 a comma is finally placed and added to the list of separate parts included in the capital of the medical establishments included in Annex 1 to art. 3, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 3. In para. 3, p. 2 a comma is finally placed and added to the list of separate parts included in the capital of the medical establishments included in Annex 1 to art. 3, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 36.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u206	Statements? Mrs. Naydenova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u207	My fellow Members, our proposal is very clear and firm. It concerns the privatization of the parts of the prohibition list of medical establishments under Annex 1 to art. 3, para. 1 of the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. We propose not only that the entire medical establishments mentioned in this Annex but also that their compartments are not privatized.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u208	- What's the line? Statements? Mr. Yordanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u209	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Almost all municipal and state hospitals, hospitals have obligations. In the case of a creditor, if he gets nervous, he can secure the relevant separate part and actually enter the "retention," it is generally the term, if it is so accurate. But with the adoption of these regulatory requirements, we actually predestined that parts of state and municipal hospitals without officially declared privatisation can be passed into other hands than state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u210	Are there any lines, colleagues? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. First, I will put to the vote the text of the importer for § 28, which becomes § 35 and which the Commission supports. Vote 95 MPs: 86 against 9, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 94 MPs: 16 against 73, abstention 5. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 36, supported by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 81 against 1, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u211	According to § 30 there is a proposal of the National Representative Georgi Yordanov and a group of MPs in the Transitional and Final Provisions § 30. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. In principle, the Commission supports the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 30, a technical error has been made in the Report, please read 30, which becomes § 37: ...... 37........................................................................ In the Law on Organ, Tissue and Cell Transplantation (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 8 shall be added at the end, including in case of cross-donor. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 words "al." The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): the (b) in para. 2 words. The following points are inserted after point 9 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 the words "Bioproducts obtained after processing of organs and tissues' shall be replaced by "Tucco cell allograft products', and after the word "bioproducts' shall be added "to both transplant and'; (b) in para. 2 the word "supplied' is replaced by "supplied cellular allograft products'; (c) in para. 3 the word "bioproducts' is replaced by "compartmental cell alograft products'. 4. Article 17 is amended as follows: Art. 17. Natural and legal persons may donate funds for transplantation activities. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1, t. the following point (d) is inserted: , (d) other relatives in the serb line to the fourth degree, including in the case of kinship, which arose on the basis of adoption, but not earlier than three years after adoption. (b) A new para shall be created. 2: The written refusal pursuant to paragraph 2 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official 1. the persons under para. 1, t. point 3 (d) (i) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (i) (ii) 2. the persons under para. 1, t. 3 (b) if the deceased has no relatives under para. 1, t. point 3 (d) (i) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (i) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) 3. the persons under para. 1, t. If the deceased does not have relatives under para. 3, point (c) shall not apply. 1, t. 3 letters ssssssssssssss and sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss; 4. the persons under para. 1, t. 3 (d) if the deceased has no relatives under para. 1, t. 3 letters.............................................................................................................................................................................................. c) the current para. 2 becomes para. 3. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25, in the text before t. 1 after the words the self-repairing body shall be added as well as the uterus. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the word 2. In para. 2 are created t. 3 and 4: "3." is included in the service organ collection register under cross-donor conditions; 4. has carried out a birth of a live child and is in premenopausal age according to the selection criteria laid down in the regulation under art. 4, para. 1.. only when taking a uterus...................................................................................................... 8. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 26a: Art. 26a. (1) In cross-donoring, organ collection shall be carried out if the following conditions are met at the same time: 1. the first donor has given a notary certified written consent to be a donor, including a cross-donor, and has identified the first recipient as a donor, including a cross-donor; 2. the second donor has given a notary certified written consent to be a donor, including a cross-donor, and has identified the second recipient as a donor, including a cross-donor; 3. the first and second donors and the first and second recipients are included in the service register of the Executive Agency. 4. there are biologically compatible first and second recipients of the first and second donors who have given written informed consent to graft under cross-donor conditions; 5. prior to taking the first and second recipients are defined by the Executive Agency "Medical supervision" according to the criteria laid down in the regulations under art. 4, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 33; 6. no less than two months have passed since the inclusion of the first and second donors and the first and second recipients in the service register of the Executive Agency Medical supervision. (2) In the case of cross-donoring, organ collection shall be carried out simultaneously with the first and second donors. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 29, para. 1 the words "striped or caged' are deleted. 10. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 33a: Art. 33a. In cross-donoring, organ grafting is carried out simultaneously on the first and second recipients. 11. Articles 36 and 36a are amended as follows: Art. 36. (1) Import of organs for transplantation from third countries shall be authorised under the following conditions: 1. there are contracts concluded by the Republic of Bulgaria which explicitly specify the conditions and arrangements for imports of organs; 2. the authority shall be provided by an institution recognised under the order established in the country concerned and shall apply all requirements for quality, safety, traceability, reporting of serious incidents and serious adverse reactions, as well as the provision of information on the characterisation of organs and donors to bodies established in that law; 3. an appropriate recipient of the relevant authority is included in the service register of the Executive Agency. (2) Imports of organs may be carried out by: 1. medical establishment under art. 13, para. 1 which is authorised to graft the relevant type of body issued in accordance with Art. 1. 48, para. 3 of the Law on Medical Institutions; 2. a medical establishment under art. 13, para. 3 which has a certificate issued by the Executive Agency "Medical supervision" for the grafting of the relevant type of body and this activity is included in the relevant rules of art. 35, para. 3, p. 2 of the Law on Medical Institutions. (3) For obtaining permission to import organs, the head of the medical establishment under para. 2 submit an application to the Executive Director of the Executive Agency for each individual donor to which it applies: 1. documents required under the contracts under para. 1, t. 1; 2. documents of compliance of the institution providing the body with the requirements of para. 1, t. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3. information about the organ and donor documents for clinical laboratory, virological, serological, immunological, microbiological and imaging studies; 4. documents of compliance with the requirements of art. 26 for imports of organs or part of an organ from a living donor. (4) The Executive Agency shall examine the application and the documents attached to it, and shall carry out an official check of compliance with para. 1, t. 3, for the existence of contracts under para. 1, t. 1 and for compliance of the documents submitted under para. 3, p. 1 with the requirements of these contracts. (5) The Executive Agency shall issue an import authorisation in accordance with a model or make a reasoned withdrawal within a period of time corresponding to the time of the authority, but not exceeding 24 hours from the submission of the application. Art. 36a. (1) The exchange of bodies shall take place between Member States of the European Union and the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation and shall include: 1. obtaining organs for transplantation from Member States of the European Union and the European Economic Area and from the Swiss Confederation; 2. the granting of transplantation organs to Member States of the European Union and the European Economic Area and to the Swiss Confederation. (2) The exchange of organs under para. 1 shall be carried out in compliance with the procedures for the transmission of information guaranteeing quality, safety, traceability, reporting of serious incidents and serious adverse reactions, as well as the procedures for the provision of information on the characterisation of organs and donors to bodies defined in this law. (3) Exchange of organs with the State of dispatch shall be carried out under the conditions of para. 2 as well as when the following conditions are met: 1. the body is accompanied by documents for clinical laboratory, virological, serological, immunological, microbiological and imaging tests; 2. an appropriate recipient of the relevant authority is included in the service register of the Executive Agency. (4) Exchange of organs with a State of destination shall be carried out under the conditions of para. 2 as well as when the following conditions are met: 1. the body is accompanied by documents for clinical laboratory, virological, serological, immunological, microbiological and imaging tests; 2. no appropriate recipient of the relevant authority is included in the service register of the Executive Agency. (5) The exchange of bodies with European bodies for the exchange of organs shall take place after the conclusion of an agreement between the Medical Supervision Executive Agency and the organisation concerned, if the organisation ensures compliance with the procedures for the transmission of relevant information on quality, safety, traceability, reporting of serious incidents and serious adverse reactions, as well as the procedures for providing information on the characterisation of authorities and donors to bodies defined in that law. 12. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 36b s 36g: Art. 36b. Exchange of organs under art. 36a, para. 3 may be carried out by: 1. medical establishment under art. 13, para. 1 which is authorised to graft the relevant type of body issued in accordance with Art. 1. 48, para. 3 of the Law on Medical Institutions; 2. a medical establishment under art. 13, para. 3 which has a certificate issued by the Executive Agency "Medical supervision" for the grafting of the relevant type of body and this activity is included in the relevant rules of art. 35, para. 3, p. 2 of the Law on Medical Institutions. Art. 36c. (1) Exchange of organs under art. 36a, para. 4 may be carried out by: 1. medical establishment under art. 13, para. 1 which is authorised to take the relevant type of authority issued in accordance with Art. 1. 48, para. 3 of the Law on Medical Institutions; 2. a medical establishment under art. 13, para. 3 which has a certificate issued by the Executive Agency for the taking of the relevant type of body and this activity is included in the relevant rules of art. 35, para. 3, p. 2 of the Law on Medical Institutions. (2) The medical establishment shall provide the Executive Agency with documents for clinical laboratory, virological, serological, immunological, microbiological and imaging research. Art. Thirty-six years. (1) The Executive Agency shall be the competent authority for the liaison of the Republic of Bulgaria with the competent transplantation authorities in the States of dispatch and receipt, organ exchange organisations or medical establishments to which the information on the exchange of organs and the activities resulting thereof is transmitted. (2) The Executive Agency shall ensure a 24-hour arrangement for the performance of its functions under para. 1 related to the organisation of the exchange of organs in emergency situations. (3) Information on the exchange of organs and the characterisation of the donor shall be transmitted in advance between the Executive Agency of Medical supervision and, on the one hand, the competent transplantation authority of the country of dispatch and of receipt, the organisation for the exchange of organs or medical establishment, on the other hand. (4) The information under para. 3 shall be transmitted immediately after receipt and verification in writing by electronic means or by fax. (5) In emergency situations, information on the characterisation of organs and donors, as well as the reporting of serious incidents and serious adverse reactions, may be transmitted orally and shall be prepared and provided in writing immediately thereafter. (6) Where some of the information on characterisation of the organ and/or donor is not known at the time of the submission of the information under para. 3, it shall be transmitted as soon as it becomes available by the Executive Agency of the Medical Supervision and by the relevant medical institution. (7) For the implementation of the exchange of bodies the Executive Agency "Medical supervision" shall draw up a form "Information for the exchange of bodies" in three copies, and when the exchange is carried out with a State of the European Free Trade Association in four copies, which it shall provide to the medical establishment under art. Art. 36b or art. 36c. The form shall contain the following information: 1. name and contact details of the insurance centre; 2. name and contact details of the transplantation centre; 3. specification of the body; 4. date of the provision; 5. national donor identification number; 6. national recipient identification number or, if the authority has not been transplanted, information about its end use; 7. date and time of transmission; 8. contact details of the person responsible for the transmission; 9. date of transplantation, if applicable; 10. information that contains personal data and should be protected from unauthorised disclosure or access. (8) When the customs procedures are carried out with the countries of the European Free Trade Association, the medical establishment shall provide a copy No 4 of the form (9) Information relating to the exchange of organs shall be transmitted in a language understood by both parties or in English. (10) The Executive Agency shall enter the information under para. 7 in the register under art. 39, para. 1, t. 2 in Bulgarian regardless of the language in which it was obtained. (11) In the case of the exchange of authorities with States of dispatch, the Executive Agency shall confirm to the State of dispatch the receipt of the information. (12) In the case of the exchange of authorities with a State of destination, the Executive Agency shall ensure that the State of receipt confirms the receipt of the information sent. Art. 36e. (1) The Executive Agency shall request from the States of receipt information on the date of the transplantation of organs subject to exchange, as well as the name of the medical establishment in which it was carried out, and contact details thereof. (2) If the authority which is the subject of the exchange is not transplanted, the Executive Agency shall request from the competent organisation of the State of receipt information on its end use. Art. 36f. (1) In the event of a serious adverse reaction and serious incident relating to the authorities which are subject to exchange and the donor, the Executive Agency shall report this immediately to the relevant competent transplantation authority in the country of dispatch or to the State of destination under the conditions and under the order of the ordinance under art. 15b, para. 3. (2) The information relating to the exchange of bodies shall be kept at the Executive Agency of the Medical Supervision and may be provided upon request of the State of dispatch or receipt. (3) The Executive Agency shall communicate to the European Commission contact details containing at least: name, telephone number, e-mail address, fax and postal address. (4) The Executive Agency shall inform the European Commission in due time of changes in the data under para. 3. Art. 36g. (1) Exports of transplant organs to third countries shall be authorised under the following conditions: 1. there are contracts concluded by the Republic of Bulgaria which explicitly specify the conditions and arrangements for the export of organs; 2. the authority shall be made available to an institution recognised by the order established in the country concerned; 3. in the Member States of the European Union and of the European Economic Area and in the Swiss Confederation, there is no appropriate recipient for the relevant authority; 4. in the country concerned there is an appropriate recipient. (2) Exports of organs may be carried out by: 1. medical establishment under art. 13, para. 1 which is authorised to take the relevant type of authority issued in accordance with Art. 1. 48, para. 3 of the Law on Medical Institutions; 2. a medical establishment under art. 13, para. 3 which has a certificate issued by the Executive Agency for the taking of the relevant type of body and this activity is included in the relevant rules of art. 35, para. 3, p. 2 of the Law on Medical Institutions. (3) The head of the medical establishment under para. 2 submit an application to the Executive Director of the Executive Agency for each individual donor to which it applies: 1. documents required under the contracts under para. 1, t. 1; 2. documents of compliance of the institution to which the body is granted with the requirements of para. 1, t. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3. details of compliance with para. 1, t. 4; 4. information on the organ and donor, including documents for clinical laboratory, virological, serological, immunological, microbiological and imaging studies, as well as data that the collection, expertise, labelling, storage and transport have been carried out according to the regulatory requirements in the Republic of Bulgaria. (4) The Executive Agency shall examine the application and the documents attached to it and shall carry out a check of compliance with para. 1, t. 3 for the existence of contracts under para. 1, t. 1 and for compliance of the documents submitted under para. 3, p. 1 with the requirements of these contracts. (5) The Executive Agency shall carry out a check of compliance with para. 1, t. 3 by asking the competent transplantation structures of the Member States of the European Union and of the European Economic Area and of the Swiss Confederation and European organ exchange organisations concerning the presence/lack of potential recipients in the waiting lists for transplantation. (6) The Executive Agency shall issue an export authorisation or make a reasoned withdrawal within a period consistent with the time of the authority but not exceeding 24 hours from the submission of the application. (7) In the case of exchange, import and export of authorities to accelerate the procedure, the documentation shall be allowed to be provided by the medical institutions in the Executive Agency. 13. Articles 37 and 38 are amended as follows: Art. 37. (1) Export of tissues, cells and ova, semen and zygotes, hereinafter referred to as "reuse cells', shall be authorised under the following conditions: 1. the needs of the Republic of Bulgaria are satisfied; 2. tissues, cells and reproductive cells shall be provided to an institution recognised by the order established in the country concerned for carrying out this type of activity; 3. the tissues, cells and reproductive cells are taken, stored and transported according to the requirements of this law and of the Health Act, as well as the established medical standards and rules of the country concerned; 4. tissues and cells are included in the service register of the Executive Agency. (2) Export of tissues and cells shall be carried out by: 1. medical establishment under art. 13, para. 1 which has an authorisation issued in accordance with Article 1. 48, para. 3 of the Law on medical establishments or medical establishment under art. 13, para. 2 which has a certificate issued in accordance with art. 40, para. 13 of the Law on Medical Institutions, which include activities for the collection of the relevant type of tissues and cells; 2. a medical establishment under art. 13, para. 3 which has a certificate issued by the Executive Agency "Medical supervision" for the taking of the relevant type of tissues and cells and this activity is included in the relevant rules of art. 35, para. 3, p. 2 of the Law on Medical Institutions; 3. tissue bank which has an authorisation issued in accordance with art. 48, para. 3 of the Law on Medical Institutions, which includes activities for the collection or storage of the relevant type of tissues or cells. (3) Export of reproductive cells is carried out by: 1. Hospital care facility and tissue bank which are authorised under art. 48, para. 3 of the Law on Medical Institutions, which includes activities of assisted reproduction, provision, use or storage of the relevant type of reproductive cells; 2. a hospital for outpatient care registered in accordance with art. 40, para. 13 of the Law on Medical Institutions, whose registration certificate includes activities in assisted reproduction, insurance, use or storage of the relevant type of reproductive cells; 3. a medical establishment under art. 13, para. 3 which has a certificate issued by the Executive Agency "Medical supervision" for assisted reproduction, provision, use or storage of the relevant type of reproductive cells and this activity is included in the relevant rules of art. 35, para. 3, p. 2 of the Law on Medical Institutions. (4) For obtaining authorisation for the export of tissues, cells and reproductive cells, the head of the medical establishment under para. 2 and 3 shall submit an application in a template to the Executive Director of the Executive Agency for each specific export to which it applies: 1. documents of compliance of the institution to which tissues and cells are provided with the requirements of para. 1, t. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2. documents on how to take, store and transport tissues, cells and reproductive cells; 3. information on tissues, cells and reproductive cells, which includes documents on virological, serological and microbiological tests, as well as information on how tissues and cells are processed, processed and labelled, and on reproductive cells, information on collection, storage and transport. (5) The Executive Agency shall examine the application and the documents attached to it and shall carry out an official check of compliance with para. 1, t. 1 and 4. (6) The Executive Agency shall issue an export authorisation or make a reasoned withdrawal within 7 days of the submission of the application. (7) In the case of customs procedures, the medical establishment shall provide a copy of the authorisation under para. 6. Art. 38. (1) Import of tissues, cells, tissue-cell alograft products and reproductive cells from third countries shall be carried out with the permission of the Executive Director of the Executive Agency. The authorisation shall include: 1. full name of the medical establishment, telephone, fax, e-mail, European Union directory code of the tissue and website establishments; 2. the seat and address of the management of the medical establishment; 3. the name and number of the act under which the medical establishment carries out medical activities; 4. the three names of the person representing the medical establishment; 5. the country providing the tissues/cells/cellular allograft products/reproductive cells; 6. the institution, including the sub-contractor/contractors providing the tissues/cells/reproductive cells, telephone, fax and e-mail; 7. type and quantity of tissues/cells/cellular allograft products/reproductive cells; 8. a unique donor identification number and a unique recipient identification number; for tissues/cells/cells allograft products; a way of processing, processing, labelling, storage and transport; for reproductive cells a way of collection, storage and transport; 9. a description of the attached documents for tissues/cells/cellular allograft products or reproductive cells containing evidence of virological, serological and microbiological tests; 10. whether the authorisation is one-off by filling in the recipient and/or multiple-dose data for the specified types of tissues/cells/tissueal allograft products/reproduction cells and in the defined circumstances with the possibility of noting the applicable ones; 11. the names of the Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Medical Supervision (Medical supervision), signature, date and time, stamp, and date and time of delivery of the tissues/cells/vessel alograft products/reproductive cells; 12. the names of the person responsible for the transmission of tissues/ the cells/tissueal allograft products/reproductive cells, telephone, fax and e-mail; 13. the conditions to which imports are bound, if any; 14. Member States of the European Union in which imported tissues, cells, tissue-cell alograft products, reproductive cells will be distributed when known. (2) The requirements to be met by the quality of the tissues, cells and tissue-cell alograft products under para. 1 shall be determined by a regulation of the Minister of Health. (3) Import of tissues, cells and tissue-cell alograft products from third countries shall be authorised under the following conditions: 1. the quality of the tissues, cells and tissue-cell alograft products meets the requirements of the regulation under para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2. tissues, cells and tissue-cell alograft products are provided by an institution recognised by the order established in the country concerned for carrying out this type of activity; 3. there is a proven positive effect of the use of tissues, cells and tissue-cell alograft products acquired and processed by methods and technologies not practiced in the Member States of the European Union and of the European Economic Area and in the Swiss Confederation. (4) Import of reproductive cells shall be permitted under the conditions of para. 3, p. 2. 14. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 38a and 38b: Art. 38a. (1) Import of tissues, cells or tissue-cell alograft products is carried out by: 1. medical establishment under art. 13, para. 1 which has an authorisation issued in accordance with Article 1. 48, para. 3 of the Law on medical establishments or medical establishment under art. 13, para. 2 which has a certificate issued in accordance with art. 40, para. 13 of the Law on medical establishments which include grafting or storage activities of the relevant type of tissues or cells; 2. a medical establishment under art. 13, para. 3 which has a certificate issued by the Executive Agency for Medical supervision for the grafting or storage of the relevant type of tissues or cells and this activity is included in the relevant rules of art. 35, para. 3, p. 2 of the Law on Medical Institutions; 3. tissue bank which has an authorisation issued in accordance with art. 48, para. 3 of the Law on Medical Institutions, which includes conservation activities of the relevant type of tissues or cells. (2) Import of reproductive cells is carried out by: 1. Hospital care facility and tissue bank which are authorised under art. 48, para. 3 of the Law on Medical Institutions, which includes activities of assisted reproduction, provision, use or storage of the relevant type of reproductive cells; 2. a hospital for outpatient care registered in accordance with art. 40, para. 13 of the Law on Medical Institutions, whose registration certificate includes activities in assisted reproduction, insurance, use or storage of the relevant type of reproductive cells; 3. Medical institution for hospital aid to the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, which has a certificate issued by the Executive Agency of Medical supervision...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 35, para. 3, p. 2 of the Law on Medical Institutions. (3) For obtaining authorisation for import of tissues, cells, tissue-cellal allograft products or reproductive cells, the head of the medical establishment under para. 1 and 2 shall submit an application to the Executive Director of the Executive Agency, which shall include: 1. the full name of the medical establishment, telephone, fax, e-mail, European Union directory code of the medical establishments for the use of tissues, internet address, registered office and management address, name and number of the act under which the medical establishment carries out medical activities; 2. the three names of the person representing the medical establishment; 3. State, institution including sub-contractor/sub-contractors providing tissues/cells/vessels allograft products/product cells, telephone, fax and e-mail; 4. the name of the person representing the institution, telephone, fax and e-mail; 5. type and quantity of tissues/cells/cellular allograft products/reproductive cells; 6. a unique donor identification number and a unique identification number of the recipient of tissues and cells; for tissues/cells/cells allograft products; a way of processing, processing, labelling, storage and transport; for reproductive cells a way of collection, storage and transport; 7. a description of documents with evidence of virological, serological and microbiological tests; 8. names of the person responsible for the transmission of tissues/cells/cellular allograft products/reproductive cells, telephone, fax and e-mail; 9. conditions to which imports are bound, where any; 10. Member States of the European Union in which imported tissues, cells, tissue-cell alograft products, reproductive cells will be distributed when known; 11. stating the desired way to obtain the issued individual administrative act. (4) To the application under para. 3 shall apply: 1. documents of compliance with art. 38, para. 3 and 4; 2. a properly certified translation from the third party supplier's authorisation to operate; 3. a copy of a written agreement with the supplier from the third country on compliance with the requirements for quality and safety of tissues, cells and tissue-cell alograft products intended for import according to the medical standard for organ, tissue and cell transplantation; 4. information on tissues, cells, tissue-cell alograft products or reproductive cells, including documents on virological, serological and microbiological tests, as well as information on each stage of processing, processing, labelling, storage and transport of tissues, cells and tissue-cell alograft products and on how they are carried out, and on the response cells, information on each stage of collection, storage and transport; 5. a description of the criteria used to determine and evaluate the donor and of the information provided to the donor or to the persons under art. 21, para. 1, t. 3; 6. information on the control centres that third party suppliers use and on the research that the centres carry out; 7. information on the methods used in processing tissues and cells, including the validation of procedures for processing tissues and cells; 8. a description of the facilities, critical equipment, critical materials and criteria used for quality and environmental control for each activity carried out by the supplier from the third party; 9. information on the conditions for the release of tissues, cells and tissue-cellal allograft products from the supplier from the third country; 10. details of the subcontractors of the supplier from the third country... name, identification data, place of registration and activity and description of the activities carried out by the subcontractors; 11. a list of the types of tissues, cells and tissue-cell alograft products and information on donation, supply, control, processing or storage activities that are carried out prior to importation by the supplier from the third country or its sub-contractor, and of the countries in which they are carried out; 12. a list of the types of tissues, cells and tissue-cell alograft products and information on donation, delivery, control, processing or storage activities to be carried out after importation from the medical establishment; 13. a list of the standard operating procedures of the importing establishment, including on the application of the Single European Code, the receipt and storage of imported tissues and cells, the management of adverse events and reactions and the traceability of tissues and cells from the donor to the recipient; 14. job description of the person responsible under art. 15d, para. 1; 15. a copy of the primary label of tissues, cells and tissue-cell alograft products, the label of repackaging, the label of outer packaging and transport containers; 16. Documents of compliance with the requirements of art. 26 for imports of tissues from a live donor; 17. a summary of the results of the last inspection of the supplier from the third country carried out by the relevant competent authority of the third country, including the date and type of inspection and the main conclusions thereof. (5) The documents referred to in para. 4 t. 11, 12 and 16. (6) The Executive Agency shall examine the application and documents attached to it and issue an import authorisation or make a reasoned refusal within 7 days of the submission of the application. (7) In the course of the customs procedures, the medical establishment shall provide a copy of the authorisation under para. 6. (8) The requirements of art. 38 and 38a do not apply to imports of tissues, cells, tissue-cell alograft products and reproductive cells if urgent. (9) In the cases under para. 8 tissues, cells, tissue-cell alograft products and reproductive cells shall be provided by the medical establishment under art. 38a, para. 1 and 2 which registers them and informs the Executive Agency of the medical supervision to ensure their traceability. Art. 38b. (1) The customs authorities shall immediately inform the Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Medical supervision of any established infringement of import, export and exchange of organs, as well as of the import and export of tissues, cells, tissue-cellal allograft products and reproductive cells under their authority under art. 43, para. 2 as well as under the powers of art. 229b of the Health Act. (2) The human organs, tissues, cells and tissue-cell alograft products for transplantation and reproductive cells intended for assisted reproduction shall be transmitted for storage under quarantine and subsequent destruction by a medical establishment designated by the Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Medical Supervision and for which a transmission-acceptance protocol shall be drawn up containing information on the type, quantity and unique identification numbers of the donor and recipient. 15. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 39a, para. 4 the word "year-old' is replaced by "two years old'. 16. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 41, para. 1 words.................................................................................................... 17. In the Additional Provisions: (a) in § 1: (aa) point 14 is amended as follows: It's 14 years old. The product is a product derived from processing/processing of tissues and cells of human origin; bb) To be created t. 44.. 49: It's 44. "Crossed donation' is a transplantation activity under which the following conditions are met at the same time: a) one person (first donor) wishes to become a living organ donor of a particular patient (first recipient) in the presence of the conditions of art. 26, para. 1 or para. 2, p. 1, 2 or 4 but the first donor is biologically incompatible with the first recipient according to the criteria of the regulations under art. 4, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 33; b) one person (second donor) wishes to become a living organ donor or tissue donor of a particular patient (second recipient) in the presence of the conditions of art. 26, para. 1 or para. 2, p. 1, 2 or 4 but the second donor is biologically incompatible with the second recipient according to the criteria of the regulations under art. 4, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 33; c) the first donor is biologically compatible with the second recipient and the second donor is biologically compatible with the first recipient. 45. The Member State of dispatch shall be a Member State of the European Union, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation from which the bodies of exchange are provided for transplantation. 46. The European Union, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation shall be a Member State of destination to which the authorities of the Member States of the European Union, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation are dispatched. 47. One-time import is the import of specific types of tissues, cells or tissue-cellal allograft products for personal use by a recipient or recipients known to the importing medical establishment and the supplier from the third country prior to import. Such imports of specific types of tissues, cells and tissue-cellal allograft products shall not be made more than once for a recipient. Imports from the same third country supplier, which takes place on a regular or repeated basis, shall not be considered as single imports. 48. An emergency situation is the occurrence of circumstances that threaten the quality of the transplant and the safety of the living donor and recipient and which increase the time of the cold ischemia of the organ above the recommended one. 49. A situation in which there is no solution other than emergency imports of tissues and cells from a third country for immediate use in a particular recipient or specific recipients whose health would be seriously threatened without such imports is urgent is urgent. (b) at the end of Paragraph 1a, the Commission Directive 2012/25/EU of 9 October 2012 laying down information procedures for the exchange between Member States of human organs intended for transplantation (OJ L 275, 10 October 2012) and Commission Directive 2015/566 of 8 April 2015 implementing Directive 2004/23/EC as regards procedures for the control of compliance with equivalent quality and safety standards for imported tissues and cells (OJ L 93, 9 April 2015);) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009).
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u212	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. Mr. Tzipov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u213	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal to extend the working time until the end of this item on the agenda, as only one paragraph remains and one proposal not supported by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u214	Thank you, Mr. Tzipov. I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 96 MPs: 89 against 2, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. I'm opening the debate. Colleagues, you have a say in this. Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This is what happens when a draft law brings together several strategic laws. I can congratulate Dr Daritkova here for her stoicism that she was able to read everything herself during those hours. This does not help in our legislation, and when we have reached this part of the Draft Law in the Commission, I have taken the liberty of saying a few things that I will now say to you, even though I am very clear about what will happen in the vote. Firstly, I would like to remind all honourable Members that a year and a half ago, at the initiative of the faction of the Bulgarian Socialist Party here in Parliament, we had a discussion about the major problems that there are in the Bulgarian transplant program and, to honour all MPs, we voted unanimously to take the necessary measures. If you open the data of the Executive Agency, which took over the functions of the transplant agency, you will see that for a year and a half there is no change in the transplant activity in Bulgaria, and whoever says he is back will lie to himself. This is visible from the data, it is visible from everyone, regardless of the pompous proposals, and therefore I asked colleagues from the respected committee. "These are very important issues and I don't want them here... I appeal to the lawyers of GERB: can one law, colleagues, talk about an email address, about the name of the director? It's just a bunch of cheating directives. Such texts have no place in this law. The second, which is important as a principle of a law, is that it must support an activity when it comes to organ, tissue and cell transplantation. There are two directives here, and without assessing what can be put into a bill, what can be in order, in the rules of application of the law and so on. These 20 pages are read now, and we're going to vote mechanically. What's gonna change from all this? Transplantation needs adequate funding, adequate monitoring. None of these things are normally at stake here, not to mention things here... Thank God Professor Ivanov thought of it, we talked to the Commission at first reading to suggest that the taking of organs, tissues and cages from the hobos should be removed. We should call them that, with all due respect to these unfortunate people. There's a lot of other nonsense. I don't want to come in here... None of you have to know these details. These are very specific questions. The export of cells would have been carried out if the state had satisfied its needs for cellular allographs. It's a full professional nonsense. [[(Replication by the National Representative Daniela Daritkova: This is the Directive.]] There is no directive. Whoever was translating... Dr. Daritkova, let's not argue with you about transplantology and cell transplantology that I'm starting to get uncomfortable. Let's not argue. These are transplant activities performed under strict rules of tissue compatibility. The strictest are in cell transplantation, so naturally, the needs will not be met, because human genetic code is unique, and we, as the old people say, find donors sometimes on the other side of the ocean with three hundred dawns. And they're trying to help us, and we're trying to help them when we find a matching donor without ever being exhausted and satisfied with the needs of cellular allograft products. These are details. It was about that, and I spoke to Professor Vladov, who is the chairman of this committee at the Ministry. He wanted to come, but because of the rules, the National Assembly did not let him participate in the Commission because he had forgotten... I don't want to talk about the humiliation he went through then. That's not what this is about. When we made the first transplant law and there were mistakes in it that barely got better after that, there were months of work at the Ministry of Health by all specialists to offer the lawmakers something that was completed, something that was really useful for the state. What you are offering us now as part of the Law on Medical Institutions, in its Transitional and Final Provisions will by nothing change the transplant situation in our country and improve and support the transplant program. I say this to you as a person who has been involved since the beginning of the development of this process, and I hope to participate in it for more time, but thus we do not support Bulgarian healthcare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u216	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u217	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My speech will be very brief. The proposal that I have made is, in fact, about those who have no relatives in the rights and the Serbian line not being allowed to be donors. I believe that this is fair in terms of not having any speculation, doubts about the ugliest part, namely about trade in organs. This is in the shortest form of the proposal I am making, and I hope it will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u218	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Any other lines? I can't see. Statements? I can't see. We will call off the debate and move on to the vote. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Georgi Yordanov and a group of MPs. Vote 94 MPs: 15 against 72 abstentions 7. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 30, which shall become § 37. Vote 91 MPs: 84 against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u219	Procedure, if I may, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to ask Dr. Naydenova. Following her proposal in the amount of 13 pages, by which she has changed the Health Act, which is not at all subject to consideration in this bill. Dr. Naydenova, do you want to spare the MPs because this proposal is not accepted by the Commission and withdraw?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u220	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u221	No? You're not withdrawing the offer. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u222	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: The creation of § 31: ........................ 31...................................................... In the Law on Health (prom., SG No. 70 from 2004, I'm sorry, DV. 24 from 2020) the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Art. 1 is amended as follows: Article 1 (1) is replaced by the following: This law governs public relations relating to public health and individual health of citizens. 2. Art. 2 is amended as follows: Art. 2. (1) Public health under this law is the policy, legal regulators, practice and activities of promotion, prevention, prevention, diagnosis, treatment and health care related to disease prevention, extension of life and strengthening of health through the organised efforts of the whole society. (2) Individual health of citizens under this law is a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being. (3) The public health and health of citizens shall be a national priority and shall be guaranteed by the State by applying the following basic principles: 1. justice, solidarity and accessible medical assistance; 2. universal access to healthcare; 3. preventing and reducing the risk to the health of citizens from the adverse effects of the factors of the living environment; 4. equal quality of health care for all; 5. special health protection of children, pregnant women of children up to one year and persons with physical disabilities and mental disorders; 6. state participation in the financing of activities aimed at protecting the health of citizens. 3. Art. 4 is amended as follows: Art. 4. (1) The National Health System is an organisation of people, institutions and resources, a system of norms, specific requirements and obligations for organising and providing medical care and healthcare to the population based on universal health care. (2) The National Health System shall include: 1. health establishments under this law; 2. the medical institutions under the Law on Medical Institutions; 3. medicinal products in human medicine under the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine; 4. medical devices under the Medical Devices Act; 5. transplantation of organs, tissues and cells under the Law on Organ, Tissue and Cell Transplanting; 6. blood, blood donation and blood transfusions under the Law on Blood, Blood donation and blood transfusions; 7. control of food under the Food Act; 8. control and prevention of drugs under the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors; 9. control of health and safety at work under the Law on Health and Safety at Work; 10. state, municipal and public bodies and institutions for organization, management and control of the activities of conservation and strengthening of health. (3) Doctors, medical specialists and non-medical specialists. (4) An integral part of the National Health System shall be the word organizations of the relevant regulated professions in the sector..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 1. The Law on Word Organizations of Doctors and Dental Doctors; 2. The Law on the Word Organization of Master Pharmacists; 3. The Law on Word Organizations of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals, Dentists and Assistant Pharmacists; 4. Protection organisations of patients' rights are recognised under this law (Art. 86b, para. 1). 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5 the following amendments and additions are made: (a) para. 1 is amended as follows: The Minister of Health shall manage and control the activities of the National Health System in: 1. realization of citizens' right to affordable, timely and quality medical care; 2. protecting the health of citizens and state health control; 3. serious cross-border threats to health; 4. coordination of the national response to public health emergency situations; 5. patients' rights, including cross-border healthcare; 6. the preparation and implementation of the National Health Card; 7. guaranteeing the provision of the National Health Card with doctors, medical professionals and non-medical professionals working in the National Health System; 8. the production and marketing of medicinal products for human medicine, wholesale trade of active substances in the composition of authorised medicinal products, medical devices and dietary foods for special medical purposes, aids to people with disabilities and other human health-related products; 9. medical expertise; 10. efficient, efficient and economical spending of public financial resources guaranteed by the State Budget Act and the National Health Insurance Fund Act for the corresponding budget year. (b) the creation of para. 6 and 7: The Minister of Health shall adapt the national information system providing information on health and health activities to the health management needs with a view to making evidence-based management decisions. (7) The Minister of Health shall, on the basis of the powers conferred on him under this law, issue regulations, guidelines, methodologies and standards applying in the National Health System regardless of the form of ownership. 5. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 6b: Art. 6b. (1) The collective contract of employment in the sector of.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 51b of the Labour Code, which has effect on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for a certain period and is binding on the Ministry of Health, the municipalities, the managing bodies of the medical institutions and the health institutions, employers, employees and employees in the (2) The collective contract of employment in the................................................................................................. is......................................................................................................................................................... (3) The collective employment contract in the succeeding office is held before a discussion by the National Assembly of the State Budget Act and the Budget Act of the NHIF. (4) The collective contract of employment in the business sector shall contain: 1. The minimum amount of the basic salary for the sector of education and training, according to the SCCPs and by types of regulated professions. 2. The ratio between the minimum and the maximum basic salary under a contract of employment by occupation, by levels and degrees of basic monthly salaries for the posts for the time of operation of the collective contract in the 3. An additional remuneration for educational and scientific degree of doctor or for a scientific degree of Doctor of Sciences. 4. Additional remuneration for: professional experience (class), night work, overtime, work during the official holidays, time available, additional qualification, results achieved and other additional remuneration prescribed in the Internal Rules on the structure and organisation of the undertaking's salary as required by the Labour Code. (5) The specific values of the basic salary and the different types of payments for each undertaking under the Labour Code shall be specified by the Internal Rules on the structure and organisation of the salary. (6) The collective labour contract in the........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (7) Where the collective employment contract in the 3 shall apply the collective work contract signed for the previous year in the................................................................................................................... 4 t. 1 is increased by 10%. 6. Section IIIa is hereby established with art. 20 a.m., 20 a.m.: ????????????????????????????????????? Art. 20a. (1) Assessment of the impact and control of the activities of health and health institutions, medical activities, quality of medical care, the marketing of medicinal products in human medicine, medical devices and diet foods shall be carried out by the Medical supervision Executive Agency to the Minister of Health. (2) The Executive Agency shall be a legal person of budgetary support to the Minister of Health. (3) The Executive Agency shall be managed and represented by an Executive Director appointed under the Law on Administration. (4) The activities, structure and organisation of the work of the Executive Agency shall be determined by the rules of procedure adopted by the Council of Ministers. Art. 20b. (1) The Executive Agency shall carry out an assessment of the impact and complex application of the laws under art. 4, para. 2 and others in relation to the protection of public health and the individual health of citizens. (2) The Executive Agency shall: 1. Registration, refusal to register, modify, suspend the activity and delete the registration of: (a) medical institutions under the Law on Medical Institutions; (b) health establishments and health offices under this law; (c) hospice; (d) and other natural persons and organisations providing medical assistance and carrying out medical activities. 2. Examines the necessity and on the basis of compliance with the National Health Card, makes a reasoned proposal for issuing, refusing to issue, change and withdrawal of authorisations for carrying out medical activities of: (a) outpatient and hospital care facilities; (b) mental health centres; c) centers for skin venereal diseases; (d) complex oncology centres; (e) homes for medical and social care; (f) dialysis centres; (g) tissue banks; 3. Provides an opinion on the good medical and pharmaceutical practice in the relevant professional field by the relevant word organisation in the sector. 4. Performs the functions of a competent authority for the management, coordination and control of transplantation in the Republic of Bulgaria in accordance with the Law on Organ, Tissue and Cell Transplanting; 5. Performs: (a) management (administrative) control of the compliance of the application of the legal rules in medical, health and health offices; (b) medical supervision; (c) financial (accounted for) control of the efficient, efficient and cost-effective spending of public financial resources in the (d) audit of public and municipal medical and health establishments; (e) planned and exceptional checks; (f) monitor compliance with patients' rights; (g) checks and controls for non-compliance with medical and financial standards. (i) checks awarded by the Minister of Health in consultation with the relevant heads of ministries and departments. 6. It establishes administrative violations. 7. Checks and controls the compliance of the structure, management, activity and organisation of medical care in medical and health establishments, compliance with and application of medical standards and standards for financial activity as defined by a regulation of the Minister of Health. 8. Planned checks shall be carried out every two years at hospital care facilities, and medical offices under the Law on Medical Institutions and Health Offices under this Act shall be carried out once every three years, in accordance with established medical and financial standards as required by this Law and the Law on Medical Institutions. 9. Controls the compliance and implementation of the signed collective labour contract for the sector (s) for the year concerned and the implementation of the agreed minimum wage levels of medical and non-medical personnel. 10. Make motivated proposals to: (a) the Minister of Health for the imposition of administrative penalties and enforcement of forced administrative measures; (b) the owner for imposing a penalty on the head of the medical establishment or health establishment and the health offices; (c) the relevant head of the medical and/or health institution for disciplinary action; (d) implement forced administrative measures and impose administrative penalties in cases set out in law. 11. Controls compliance with the Rules of Good Practice of the relevant word organization, the existence of non-compliance with medical and financial standards, together with the RGI and representatives of the word organization in which the doctor, dentist or medical professional is a member. (3) The Executive Agency may carry out joint planning and extraordinary checks in cooperation with the authorities of the NRA, the Customs Agency, the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, the NHIF, the RZI, the State Financial Inspection, the Court of Auditors and other state bodies designated by law. (4) The Executive Agency shall have the right to access all sites and the right to request documents and opinions from the management bodies of organizations in the Republic of Bulgaria related to an impact on human health and public health. (5) The Executive Agency shall have the right to verify the activity of all natural and legal persons for whom there is evidence that they are operating in violation of the legal provisions relating to the sector............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ (6) The Executive Agency shall immediately inform the employer, the labour safety authorities, the state health control bodies, the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency and the environmental protection authorities of the necessary measures in cases where it establishes working conditions and other harmful environmental factors threatening the health of the citizens. (7) The conditions and procedures for carrying out checks and controls under this law shall be laid down by a regulation of the Minister of Health. Art. 20c. (1) The Executive Director of the Executive Agency shall be a person who shall meet the following requirements: 1. there is an acquired higher education with an educational-qualification degree. 2. has a minimum of three years of professional experience in the field of health management, law or medicine. (2) The Executive Director of the Executive Agency 1. represent the Agency in the country and abroad; 2. organise and manage operational activities of the Agency in accordance with the law; 3. prepare a draft for the Agency's annual budget and submit it for approval by the Minister of Health; 4. draw up an annual financial statement, an annual budget implementation report, an annual activity report of the Agency and submit them for approval by the Minister of Health. 5. conclude transactions up to the amount set out in the Rules of Procedure and the activities of the Agency; 6. conclude, amend and terminate the employment contracts with the staff of the Agency. (3) The Executive Director of the Executive Agency is involved in the preparation of the National Health Card under this law. Art. 20 years. (1) State authorities and officials shall be obliged to assist the staff of the Executive Agency in carrying out their powers. (2) The staff of the Executive Agency shall, when exercising their powers, be entitled to: 1. require all necessary data, documents, information, references and written explanations and other related to the controlled activity, including the right of free access to the premises of the medical establishments, health establishments and health offices; 2. to give prescriptions for findings of non-compliance with c. 1 and keep an eye on their implementation. Art. 20e. (1) The staff of the Executive Agency shall be obliged not to disclose the facts and circumstances which have become known to them during or on the occasion of the performance of their duties, except at the written request of a public authority, where provided for in a law. (2) In relation to their obligations under para. 1 persons shall sign a declaration in a form approved by the Executive Director of the Agency. Art. 20f. (1) The activities of the Executive Agency shall be financed by budgetary resources and revenue from its own activities. (2) The budgetary resources shall be provided by a subsidy from the state budget through the budget of the Ministry of Health. (3) The Executive Agency shall be the administrator of the revenue from its own activity, which shall be formed by: 1. fines and property penalties imposed by criminal decrees entered into force, issued by the Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Medical Supervision Agency, received on the account and; 2. other sources. Art. 20g. Financial resources under art. 20f, para. 1. shall be spent on the activities of the Executive Agency. Art. 20z. Medicinal products and medical devices used for medical activities are regulated and controlled under the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine and the Law on Medical Devices. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21 the following amendments and additions are made: (a) in para. 2, p. 1 and all over the text, the words the National Centers for Public Health are replaced by the National Center for Public Health and Analysis. (b) the creation of para. 4 and 5. (4) The Minister of Health shall develop a methodology for the formation of staff and salaries of medical and non-medical staff in health establishments and offices under this law and medical institutions under the National Health System Act, funded by public financial resources. The control of the economic, efficient, efficient and appropriate spending of public financial resources in health and health institutions financed by public financial resources by the National Health System shall be carried out by the Medical Supervisory Executive Agency under the responsibilities under para. 4. 8. Art. 27 is amended as follows: Art. 27. (1) Health information shall be a system of data collected, compiled, stored, managed or transmitted on paper or electronic means relating to public health and the health of citizens or to the activities of organisations whose economic activity is in the field of health, subject to the General Data Protection Regulation and the Personal Data Protection Act. (2) The health information system shall also include those systems which process data relating to the activities of medicinal products suppliers in human medicine, wholesale trade of active substances in the composition of authorised medicinal products in human medicine, medical devices and dietary foods for special medical purposes, support for people with disabilities related to human health, and the effective, efficient, economical and appropriate use of public financial resources. (3) The health information system shall also include interactive tools to assist clinical solutions that alert medical service providers to potential problems such as drug interactions, allergies or critical laboratory values and reminders of preventive care and/or clinical guidelines. (4) A web-based system shall be established on the website of the Ministry of Health providing stakeholders with real-time information on the location and level of competence of medical and healthcare establishments and health offices, wholesalers and retailers of medicinal products in human medicine, wholesalers with active substances in the composition of authorised medicinal products and medical devices in full scope, on separate subsystems, structures and sectors. (5) Forms and content, as well as terms and conditions for collection, processing, use and storage, and the exchange of health information shall be determined by regulations, guidelines and methodologies established by the Minister of Health, agreed with the National Statistical Institute and authorising officers. 9. Section VII is hereby established with art. 28 e. s 28 l: National Health Card Art. 28f. (1) The National Health Card shall constitute a register of the territorial location and the level of competence of health establishments and offices under this law and medical establishments under the Law on Medical Institutions regardless of the form of property authorised to carry out medical activities, holders of a wholesale marketing authorisation, production, import and wholesale of active substances, retailers of medicinal products under the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine and Medical Devices under the Law on Medical Devices, as well as accredited medical laboratories under art. 19a, para. 2. (2) Through the National Health Card, the Minister of Health plans, manages and controls all activity in the national health system and public financial resources for the function. (3) The National Health Card shall be managed and updated in real time by a structural unit at the Ministry of Health. (4) The National Health Card shall consist of the General Part. The specific part consists of two structures: 1. Public health care and social security services; 2. National Health Security. Art. 28g. (1) The common part of the National Health Card shall contain information on: 1. the number and territorial location of all medical establishments, including organisationally separate structures, level of their competence and health institutions and health offices, as well as their personnel resources; 2. merchants of all wholesale and retail, central, buffer, district warehouse of retailers, pharmacies and drugstores selling medicinal products and medical devices in human medicine, as required by the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine; 3. all accredited laboratories under art. 19a, para. 2. 4. The providing unconventional treatment methods registered under this law. (2) The National Health Card shall be drawn up and updated annually during the budgetary procedure and shall be adopted by an act of the Council of Ministers by 1 August of the previous year to which it relates. Art. 28z. (1) The Public Health Service shall provide information on the needs of the population of available outpatient and hospital medical care and shall contain information on the number and territorial location of medical and healthcare establishments and public service health offices in the form of free medical and dental assistance to health insured persons, wholesale and retail of medicinal products in human medicine and medical devices, contractual partners of the NHIF and the Ministry of Health. (2) The Public Health Service shall create conditions for: 1. territorial accessibility: - during up to 30 minutes; - 50 km; 2. continuous coverage 24 hours a day and 365 days a year; 3. comprehensiveness of all diagnoses included in the International Classification of Diseases (ICR-10); 4. effectiveness in the use of human resources, finance and other resources. 5. Emergency and emergency medical care, outpatient medical care, medical care and specialized, hospital, pharmacies and optics. (3) The Public Health Service shall be established on the basis of: 1. dynamics of the movement of the population; 2. the territorial location of the medical establishment; 3. level of competence of the medical institution according to the requirements of the medical standards; 4. complexity in the provision of medical activities; 5. number of doctors in specialties; 6. ratio doctor/other specialists (medical, economic, informative, etc.) 7. number of beds according to the degree of usability; 8. data on the type, number and distribution of high-tech diagnostic and treatment methods and available for their application of high-tech medical equipment in the relevant territory; 9. and others defined by the ordinance for drawing up the National Health Card. (4) Medical, healthcare or parts thereof, health offices, regardless of the form of ownership, may take part in the structure. (5) In the structure of the Public Health Service, associations of holding institutions may be established to provide complementary medical assistance on a territorial basis. (6) The activities of the structure "Public health care" shall be financed through public financial resources provided through the State budget and compulsory health insurance. (7) The financing of the structure of the Public Health Service shall be carried out on the basis of a contract concluded with the payer (IM, NHIF, relevant municipality) and the relevant medical or health institution or health office, and the contract must specify the terms and amounts that the contractual partner will receive on a monthly basis: 1. For walking in the form of: (a) conditional fixed costs, and (b) conditional variable costs. 2. Conditionally, fixed costs shall be incurred on the first day of the month and shall serve to cover all costs, including: and for salaries that the contractual partner will spend in conditions of absence of medical activity. 3. Conditional variable costs are amounts covered by the payer's costs incurred for the activity, including And paychecks. They shall be paid by the end of the following month for the month to which they relate. (8) The pay for activity is carried out by means of the approach of the current prices of the treatment protocols. (9) Health-insured persons receiving medical care in medical, healthcare and health offices included in Part (10) The inclusion of the medical, health and health offices in the structure of the Public Health Service shall be determined by means of a competition established by the National Health Card Regulation. Art. 28th. (1) The National Health Security Structure shall contain information on: 1. the number and territorial distribution of medical establishments and health establishments, of central, buffer, district warehouse of retailers, retailers, pharmacies and drugstores selling medicinal products and medical devices in human medicine, as well as accredited laboratories under art. 19a, para. 2 in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, which are relevant for national health security; 2. activities relating to non-military medical services related to national security; 3. the necessary medical personnel, medicinal products and medical devices, free beds and others in the form of a state reserve; 4. the public financial resource guaranteeing the medical activity in the structure of the National Health Security (National Health Security) is provided annually by the state budget through the Fund. (2) Every year the State Budget Act provides financial resources for maintaining the structure under para. One standing by. (3) Participation in the structure of the National Health Security (National Health Security) for commercial companies with more than 50 percent state participation in capital or in which the State otherwise exercises dominant influence (blast hospitals) as well as medical institutions providing emergency medical care is mandatory. (4) The information on the management and financing of the structure is limited by order defined by the Minister of Health and established by a decision of the Council of Ministers. (5) In the structure of the National Health Security (National Health Security) they may participate in medical, health institutions or parts thereof, health offices regardless of the form of ownership. Art. 28j. (1) The National Health Card shall be drawn up by means of a uniform methodology which summarizes in general the municipal and regional health cards based on medical-demographic, migration, geographical and economic analyses of the relevant economic regions, districts and municipalities, the state of the road network, analysis and planning of the number of medical specialists in specialties and age and the need for medical care. Municipal and regional health cards, for the purposes of pre-defined purposes, can be combined into regional health cards. (2) The National Health Card shall be drawn up by a permanent national commission in which representatives of: 1. The Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, as well as other ministries having relations with the National Health Card and the National Security in the Sector................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 2. The National Center for Public Health and Analysis, the Executive Agency of Medical Supervision, the National Health Insurance Fund, the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, the Bulgarian Medical Association, the Bulgarian Dental Union, the Bulgarian Association of Health Professionals, the representative organizations for the protection of patients' rights recognised under art. 86c of the Health Act, and others by decision of the Minister of Health. 3. Chairman of the Committee is Deputy Minister of Health. (3) The Regional Health Card shall be an integral part of the National Health Card and shall be drawn up by a Standing Committee, which shall include the Regional Health Inspectorate, a representative of the Regional Health Insurance Fund, a representative of the Regional College of the Bulgarian Medical Union, a representative of the Regional College of the Bulgarian Dental Union, a representative of the Regional College of the Bulgarian Association of Health Care Professionals, a representative of the representative organisations for the protection of the rights of patients recognised by art. 86c of the Health Act, and one representative of each municipality in the respective area. The governor of the district is the chairman of the committee. By his decision, additional specialists and experts can be attracted. (4) Municipal councils may accept municipal health cards which: 1. shall be drawn up by committees drawn up by decision of the Municipal Council; 2. include medical institutions from hospital and outpatient medical care, health institutions and offices under the Health Act, integrated health-social services under art. 2, para. 4 of the Law on Medical Institutions and Chapter Four, Section Ia of the Law on Health and Others; 3. are an integral part of the regional health cards. Art. 28k. (1) A web-based system shall be established on the website of the Ministry of Health providing stakeholders with real-time information on the location and level of competence of medical and healthcare establishments and health offices, on the wholesale and retail of medicinal products and medical devices included in the National Health Card, in full scope, on separate subsystems, structures and sectors. The national health card shall contain at least the following information: 1. the territorial location of the medical and health establishment, the pharmacy and drugstore of the city, municipality and village; 2. working hours; 3. telephone contact; 4. e-mail address. (2) The web-based system shall be an electronic contact point for cross-border healthcare providing easily accessible, understandable and complete information while ensuring the protection of personal data. Art. 28l. (1) The inclusion in the National Health Card is a condition for carrying out: - the medical activity under this law; - the medical activity under this law and under the Law on Medical Institutions; - wholesale and retail trade of medicinal products in human medicine under the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine; - wholesale and retail of medical devices under the Medical Devices Act. (2) The National Health Card is a means of regulating the number of medical and healthcare establishments and health offices in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. (3) The National Health Card of the Republic of Bulgaria shall be validated by a decision of the Council of Ministers on a proposal of the Minister of Health and shall enter into force after the promulgation in the Official Journal. (4) The National Health Card shall also be drawn up according to the requirements, principles and credentials of the Law on Device in the Area. (5) The non-listed medical, health care establishments or parts thereof, health offices in the institutions of the institutions of the public health services and of the National Health Card shall apply the market principles in the provision of medical activities and shall be financed only by private financial resources. (6) The health and health care establishments participating in the institutions shall not form profits and the positive financial result at the end of the year shall be distributed among the staff according to the internal rules on the structure and organisation of the undertaking's salary. (7) Any medical and/or health care establishment and/or health care cabinet shall notify within three days the Ministry of Health, through the RGI, of changes in the parameters on which the medical and/or health care establishment and/or health office has been registered or authorised to carry out medical and/or commercial activities in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 84. 1 is amended The patient is any person who has sought, proved himself and received medical assistance, registered in the appropriate order. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 86. 1 is amended The main rights of the patient are: 1. right to life; 2. the right to health protection guaranteed by the State; 3. guarantee by the state of available medical care; 4. receiving medical care regardless of its age, gender, origin, language, national, racial or political affiliation, education, belief, cultural level, sexual orientation, personal, social or material status, disability and type and cause of the disease; 5. Getting acquainted in an accessible language with its rights and obligations as a patient; 6. equality in the use of medical services; 7. the right to more than one medical opinion on the diagnosis, treatment and prognosis of the disease; 8. the right to obtain clear and accessible information about its health and the methods for its possible treatment; 9. the right to receive information about the price of any medical service, manipulation, treatment and medicinal products in outpatient and hospital care; 10. the right of security and safety of diagnostic and medical procedures carried out during its treatment; 11. access to free treatment guaranteed by legal text; 12. the right to compensation for damages caused by uninherited and inadequate medical services, as well as defective medicinal products and medical devices; 13. data protection relating to its health; 14. access to the medical documentation related to its health; 15. protection of personal information related to his health condition, diseases, procedures and actions related to his health. 12. Art. 114 is amended as follows: Art. 114 (1) The provision of health care for disasters, accidents and accidents, in crises of non-military nature and emergency is realized in medical and health institutions regardless of the form of property included in the structure (2) The management, organisation and resource provision of health assistance in cases of disasters, accidents and accidents, in cases of non-military crises and emergency situations shall be carried out by the Minister of Health, the Chief State Health Inspector, the Director of the National Health Inspector, the directors of regional health inspections, medical and health institutions. (3) The bodies of para. 2 carry out the activities of medical insurance for disasters, accidents and accidents, crises of non-military nature and emergency situation in close interaction with the authorities of the central and local authorities, with the Ministry of Interior, with NGOs and with the Bulgarian Red Cross. 13. Art. 125b. is amended as follows: Art. 125b. (1) Health and Social Services shall be provided by a medical and/or health establishment and/or health office under this law, under the Law on Medical Institutions and under the Law on Social Services. (2) Health and social services shall be provided on the basis of a medical standard established by a regulation of the Minister of Health drawn up jointly with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. (3) Health and social services shall be financed by public and private financial resources. 14. Additional provisions § 1 shall make the following amendments and additions: (a) t. 15 is amended as follows: ..15. "Informed consent" is a consent granted voluntarily after getting acquainted with certain information. The informed consent is the right of both the person who is being treated and the person who is being treated. It should be done in writing. b) To be created t. 45 - 57: 45. "Accredited laboratories' are laboratories meeting the requirements of BDS EN ISO/IEC 17025 and/or BDS EN ISO/IEC 17020 and the scope of accreditation of BDS testing laboratories EN ISO/IEC 17025 refers to certain tests or test groups. 46. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. The term "Payment', based on historical tradition, is used for the definition of the cash flow directed to the medical aid contractor "Health', and constitutes an inalienable human right and a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being, and not only the lack of sickness or disability. 47. "Health activity" is an activity provided by specialists from Union professional fields who hold the relevant professional qualification by a medical profession certified with a diploma for acquired higher education of the educational and qualification degree of Bachelor under art. 42, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Higher Education or with a certificate of professional qualification issued under the Law on Vocational Education and Training, nationals of a Member State of the European Union, other countries of the European Economic Area and Switzerland, as well as a certificate of recognition of specialization, where there is one issued by the Minister of Health under the Law on recognition of professional qualifications. Professional realization is carried out after entry in the register for recognition of professional qualifications. 48. Health services (health services) is a paid action for actions carried out related to the immediate health of the person. 49. Medical assistance (health, medical care) is a diagnosis, treatment, rehabilitation or care provided by doctors and medical professionals in compliance with health requirements and established medical standards. 50. It is a series of activities designed to increase the health status and the level of satisfaction in the patient. 51. The urgent medical care is medical assistance to a sick and injured person whose life is not directly threatened, but who needs medical attention in a short time to prevent further development and complication of the disease. These are people, including children over one year, whose condition is severe, but there is no direct threat to vital functions. 52. The basic salary is the basic wage agreed in the conclusion of an employment contract between an employer and a worker (a worker) under art. 66, para. 1, t. Article 7 107 of the Labor Code. The individual amount of the basic salary shall be determined by the undertaking's internal wage rules, depending on the level of the job taken, qualification and professional experience. 53. The impact assessment is an instrument to support the decision-making process and to improve the quality, transparency, justification and sustainability of policies and legislation adopted by the legislative and executive authorities while reducing costs and negative impacts on citizens, business, administration and affected countries as a whole. 54. The emergency medical care is medical assistance to a sick and injured person in a life-threatening condition who poses a danger to himself or to others who have suffered from an accident, with burns and bleedings, with bleedings, with fractures to the body and limbs, with chest pain, persons with data of mental disorder, post-swallowing medication, seizure or other severe cases. 55. The web-based system is an electronic contact point for cross-border healthcare, easily accessible, understandable and complete information while ensuring the protection of personal data. 56. "Universal access to healthcare' (Universal health care, universal health care, universal coverage or universal care) is a healthcare system in which all citizens of a particular country or region have access to health services when they need them without having a financial difficulty in doing so. 57. "Funding" represents the provision of money wherever and when necessary. [[Noise and lines.]] This is a term characterised by the advance payment for the provision of expected future services and determines the cash flow arising from the health system. [[Laughter and loud applause from GERB.]] The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u223	Who's gonna vote? You don't have people. Shame on you.! You don't have people, and you're holding us...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u224	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. Statements? Dr. Naydenova, come in. Just don't say you're withdrawing it. [[Noise, lines and laughter.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u225	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! If I were to make our views and suggestions briefly so far...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u226	There's eight of them?!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u227	Please, no yelling in the room. Let's keep a good voice.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u228	Colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u229	We've all been patient enough. [[Noise and lines.]] I want to say what the Commission did not accept because our proposal is very important...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u230	And your people are gone, and they won't accept it either!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u231	Mr. Ivanov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u232	...proposing the creation of a new art. 6b, in which the collective employment contract in the......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This isn't just about the gym. This is for all Bulgarian citizens and for medical workers. Let them know that yet another attempt to protect their interest, thanks to the fact that the Commission rejected it, and now, after...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u233	Where are your people to support?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u234	...voting will probably happen again, that's not gonna happen. In some cases, we may.. as it was for the collective contract many years ago, when many of us were not in this room, and for others we cannot, but others are now, right now. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u235	Eight people!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u236	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs. [[Replications between MPs Stanislav Ivanov from GERB and Georgi Yordanov from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u237	BSP, let's go!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u238	Did everyone get a vote? [[Noise and lines.]] Vote 87 MPs: 10, against 69, abstention 8. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u239	Proposal of the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 38: ....................... 38........................................................... The law shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of § 23, which shall enter into force on 1 January 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u240	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to establish § 38 with a text on the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u241	Georgi Mihailov came out demonstrative...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u242	This shit... The man is absolutely right.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u243	Thank you all for your patience and active participation. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-04.u244	And thank you, Mrs. Daritkova, and I congratulate you. They voted 86 MPs: 79, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. I will introduce you to parliamentary control reports for 5 June 2020. Friday. 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mariana Nikolova will answer one question from the MP Krastina Taskova. 2. Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer seven questions from the MPs Manol Genov [[two questions]] ; Elhan Kulkov; Sevim Ali; Nikolai Ivanov [[two questions]] ; and Lubomir Bonev; and a question by the National Representative Dora Yankova. 3. The Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva will answer two questions from the MPs Nadia Klisurska- Zhekova, Violeta Jelev, Dimitar Danchev and Kristina Sidorova; and Violeta Jeleva and Rumen Georgiev; and one question from the MPs Georgi Gokov, Kristian Vigenin and Vessela Lecheva. 4. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer two questions from the MPs Stanislav Stanilov; and Yavor Bojankov. 5. The Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev will answer four questions from the MPs Violeta Jeleva; Georgi Mihailov and Violeta Jelev; Georgi Mihailov; and Krastina Taskova; and one question from the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Georgi Mihailov, Ilian Timchev, Desislav Taskov, Valentina Naydenova, Ivan Ibrishimov and Anna Slavova. 6. Culture Minister Boel Banov will answer three questions from the MPs Vassil Antonov and Chavdar Velinov; and Anastas Popdimitrov, Nona Yotova and Alexander Simov [[2 questions]] . 7. Economy Minister Emil Karanikolov will answer a question from the MP Dora Yankova. 8. The Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov will answer three questions from the MPs Valeri Zablyanov, Evdokiya Asenova, Lyubomir Bonev, Ivan Ibrishimov and Atanas Kostadinov; Polina Tsankova-Hristova; and Desislava Todorova. 9. Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva will answer six questions from the MPs Krastina Taskova; Svetla Bachvarova, Chavdar Velinov and Vasil Antonov; Svetla Bachvarova and Veska Nencheva; Kristian Vigenin; Svetla Bachvarova and Nikolay Penev [[two questions]] . 10. The Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will answer a question from the MPs Vasil Antonov, Kolyo Milev, Hristo Prodanov and Mikhail Hristov. 11. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer a question from the MPs Vassil Antonov and Chavdar Velinov. 12. Justice Minister Danail Kirilov will answer a question from MP Krum Zarkov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva to a question from the MPs Aleksandar Paunov and Georgi Gokov; and to a question from the MP Krum Zarkov; - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Anton Kutev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova, one question from the National Representative Manol Genov; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova, one question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - a question from MP Krum Zarkov to Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva; - a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva to the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev; - two questions from the National Representative Alexander Sabanov to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Desislava Taneva; - a question from MP Dzhevdet Chakarov to Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mariana Nikolova. The next regular plenary session shall be from 9:00 on 5 June 2020. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
