ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, I will present to your attention the draft work programme of the National Assembly for March 4, 2020. As the first Wednesday of the month, we have a proposal from the parliamentary groups. Proposal from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. 53, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: "1." Draft decision to review the EU's sanctions policy with regard to the Russian Federation. Importers are Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 31 July 2019 Of the other parliamentary groups, we have no proposals. I will also introduce you to the Programme that we have to vote on: "2." First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act. Importers are Ivelina Vassileva and Evgenia Angelova on 12 February 2020. 3. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 3 February 2020. 4. Draft decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions of the proposal of the Ombudsman, presentation, public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. The Committee on Religions and Human Rights is the importer on 28 February 2020. 5. Report on the activities of the Temporary Committee for the Study of the facts and circumstances related to the interruption of the broadcast of the program "Programme" of the Bulgarian National Radio, as well as the allegations of political pressure on the management and journalists from the Bulgarian National Radio and Draft Decision on the Report. Importer is the Temporary Commission on 26 February 2020. Point 1 for Thursday, 5 March 2020 6. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 9 January 2020. Point 2 for Thursday, 5 March 2020 7. Second vote on the bill amending and supplementing the Law on Climate Change. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 12 December 2019. Adopted in first vote on 5 February 2020. Point 1 for Friday, 6 March 2020 8. Parliamentary control. Please vote on the Project for the Programme without the proposal of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. 53, para. Eight, which automatically enters into it. Vote 196 MPs: for 169, no objection, abstention 27. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, there is a proposal from the MPs Desislav Chukolov, Pavel Shopov and Professor Stanilov: "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 113 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly we propose to hold a hearing of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence Mr. Krasimir Karakachanov on the transactions in the properties of the Ministry of Defence with the so-called "deprived necessity," as well as his personnel policy. On the basis of art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure to be included as the first item in the National Assembly's Programme for 5 March 2020 Here you are, Mr. Chukolov, to justify your offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I propose that the first item on tomorrow be heard by Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov about the sale of properties by his ministry. I will give you a few frappany examples to justify why we want this hearing: plots in Plovdiv "Industrial Zone," where property prices rose monthly, were sold between five and seven times lower than their market valuation last year; a huge plot in the centre of Ruse was sold four times cheaper than its market value; a plot in Nessebar to the dunes was sold twice cheaper than its market value. These are just a few examples of the many properties that are sold. The intention of the minister to sell whole peninsulas on the South Black Sea coast was announced last year. Half-sharp! I want the Minister to come here to justify himself and to say what imposes this at such prices and thus? Because in the end, his signature stands under these deals. This request of ours is under art. 113, which regulates this hearing and allows it to be on public matters. You know, the past days Karakachanov made so that he actually put an umbrella on his footage, saying that if the D.A.'s office, the law enforcement authorities attacked his people, the elastic could break. His people, his appointed! In this hearing we would also like to talk about this: Bate Haro.. Petar Haralampiev, Agency for Bulgarians Abroad. You know, the sale of passports; organized criminal group in Plovdiv. Naturally, the leader of this group is a municipal councillor from VMRO; the boss of the Swimming Directorate is from VMRO; Nikolay Kanchev Deputy Minister of Environment and Water and Vice President of IMRO. Nikolai Kanchev... The January D.A. said about the garbage in Italy that a deputy minister was involved in this. These answers must be given here, they must be given to us. Last week Prime Minister Borisov was heard, the House voted. The man came, we heard him. Nothing to worry about, nothing to worry about. To come here and listen to Minister Karakachanov, because I hope, as perhaps he will explain to the media that he has nothing to hide. Let him come here and share it with all of us. I hope you will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Chukolov. Colleagues, I am voting on Mr. Chukolov's proposal for a hearing of Minister Karakachanov and for this to enter as point one for tomorrow. Vote 190 MPs: 100 against 1, abstention 89. The motion is accepted. The item enters as first for tomorrow, 5 March 2020. Bills and draft decisions for the period 25 February 2020 - 2 March 2020: Draft Law amending and supplementing the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities. Importers are Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Monitoring Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling. Draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions of the proposal of the Ombudsman, presentation, public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. The Committee on Religions and Human Rights is the importer. Draft decision for privatization of a part of the property of Gorna Oryahovitsa "Gorna Oryahovitsa" Ltd. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Messages: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria shall inform the National Assembly that: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. During the period from 7 to 23 March 2020, a joint Bulgarian-British training between the formations of the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria and the special operations forces of Great Britain will be held on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. The preparation will be attended by soldiers from the Bulgarian country and soldiers from the Special Forces of the UK with weapons and equipment. The preparations are not related to military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming military operations, and to carry out activities to prevent military action conducted by other States (other countries or organisations) armed forces. In accordance with the provisions of the Law, the competent state authorities have been notified. II. In the performance of art. 65, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria has, by its order, authorised the dispatch and use of an aircraft with crew of military personnel from the Air Force to carry out special flights to provide air transport for the needs of the Ministry of Defence, as follows: - on 4 March 2020: Sofia Airport, Zagreb Airport, Republic of Croatia - Sofia Airport; - on 6 March 2020: Sofia Airport - Zadar Airport, the Republic of Croatia - Zagreb Airport, the Republic of Croatia - Lower Metropolitan Airport - Plovdiv Airport - Sofia Airport. In accordance with the provisions of the Law, the competent state authorities have been notified. The notifications were received on 28 February and 3 March 2020. No. 003-09-21 and in. No 003-09-22 and provided to the Defence Committee. The National Assembly received a Report of the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 22 January 2020 - 21 February 2020 and Protocol No 5 of a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund, held on 24 February 2020, at which the Report was reviewed and discussed. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report and the Protocol were sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. On 27 February 2020 the National Assembly was provided with the draft and adopted by the Economic and Social Council on the topic: Possibilities and factors for the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises in Bulgaria for a planning period 2021 - 2027. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was provided to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and is available to the Members of the National Assembly. Colleagues, we continue with: THE PROPOSAL TO BE FULL OF TURN. 53, AL. 8 OF THE RULES ON THE ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING FROM THE PARLIAMENT'S BSP FOR BULGARIA: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO RESPONSE THE SANCTION POLICY OF THE EUROPEAN UNION WITH REGARD TO THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION. It's the first Wednesday of the month. We have a proposal from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria and Mr. Georgi Svilenski. Who's gonna introduce him to us? Mr. Kutev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! Today we take advantage of the opportunity under para. 8 to submit this proposal, which, by the way, has been staying for half a year in parliament without receiving a movement. Maybe it worked better because March 3rd is one of the dates that are key to Bulgarian history and which are related to Russia anyway, and perhaps at such a time it is good to look at a policy that has already been on the attention of European citizens long enough. I personally believe that March 3rd is the right time to address this issue in the context of our national holiday. I will start with what sanctions are like as an instrument, because our proposal is actually a revision of sanctions policy, and that, in my opinion, is important. I think that after the repeated imposition of various sanctions around the world, at least in this form, we see about the same result. For me they are not a good form of communication and of interstate relations, and in the case of Russia for Europe they are becoming already gravely problematic, which was the reason for making this proposal. Obviously, they are not effective. A large part of these sanctions have been imposed in 2014, which means that there have been six years since then and they are on a continuing basis. The delay we have had for half a year in examining this point has led to the fact that it is currently very timely on the European agenda, because some of the sanctions expire in March, another part in July. These sentencing regimes have been repeatedly extended and are now on the agenda of the European institutions, because now the European institutions need to rethink whether they are continuing or not. That is, a political act by Bulgaria in which we express our opinion because, by the way, the proposal we have made is nothing more than an expression of political will. Such proposals have been made by the BSP, and I think also by "Attack" in past parliaments several times, but they have always had the purpose of causing a certain action by the government. For the first time here we have a proposal that does not cause action by the government, and quite deliberately we merely aim to declare the political will of the representative of the Bulgarian people in the Bulgarian Parliament, and not in any way to introduce the government, the foreign minister or the prime minister into difficult talks in Europe. That's not the point. The aim is to declare political will, which we deeply believe most of the Bulgarian people support. We are convinced that much more than 50% of the people in Bulgaria, 70% of the people in Bulgaria, disagree with the sanctions policy against Russia. That's got a few points. One of them is naturally that the sanctions against Russia wake up the corresponding counter-stations by Russia against the European countries, including Bulgaria. I started by saying that these sanctions are not effective. For these six years in which they are applied, they have shown that they are practically not working in the direction in which we would like us to, we are talking about the European Union and the countries of the European Union. There is another argument against sanctions and it is that these sanctions rarely suffer the elites, although specifically the sanctions against Russia are two types of economic sanctions and restrictive measures against certain persons and companies, Russian citizens and Russian companies that are bankrupt in some way on the international market. However, we are raising the issue of revising the policy of sanctions at all. That is, for us, the very entry into this Sanctational form of communication is wrong and does not result in the necessary results, as I think is clearly seen in the sixth year. The sanctions harm Europe and the European Union to the same extent as they harm Russia. The sanctions and counter-stations restrict normal markets for the European Union and this is particularly in cases with Bulgaria, it is very clearly seen in economic indicators because in the end, when one of the few real raw markets for Bulgaria, one of the few places from which we can actually receive raw materials simply because of the geopolitical situation and our geographical location, this is Russia. By limiting access to raw materials from Russia, we are damaging our own economies. Similarly, when we restrict access to a 160- or 180-million-dollar market, such as the Russian market, we continue to harm our own entrepreneurs and our own economy. This is not the civilised way in which the European Union should communicate with Russia. Of course, when, within the framework of our Euro-Atlantic common policy, from which in no case should Bulgaria be separated, when in the framework of this policy, action is imposed to limit certain unliked or unadvised policies of Russia, we must, of course, comply with this. However, the issue of imposing sanctions on Russia is not single in Europe at all. And we all already know that some of the major European countries, including France, are already gradually declaring themselves against this policy of sanctions. So to find the way on which to resume relations with the Russian Federation, of course, with respect to all international commitments, in keeping with our Euro-Atlantic commitments, this is not subject to doubt. But we need to find the way in which to return our genuine economic ties with Russia, and when I say "we," I mean the European Union and Bulgaria in its context. This is important for the European Union as a whole and in Bulgaria in context! The biggest problem is that these sanctions actually harm people, citizens from both European and Russian countries. Because the elites they are targeting, these 170 Russian citizens who have been subject to restrictive measures, de facto these elites will hardly lose much of this. They find their way to transfer the money and transfer their business. Economic indicators show that economic relations with the United States continue to grow, and also Russia's economic relations, including some of the leading European economies, continue to grow. We alone, perhaps not only, are among those countries in Europe that we are losing economically by imposing these sanctions. The great.. France, Germany, the United States find their ways to develop their business and economy. We are the ones who respect to the extent that we do only harm to the citizens, so the cancellation for me is extremely important from the point of view of the Bulgarian interest. There are two directions in which it makes sense to consider Bulgarian-Russian economic relations. On the one hand, I have already talked about the fact that there are raw materials that we need, and specifically at the moment, in the context of the Turkish Stream and in the context of the Balkan Stream, as the Prime Minister likes to call it. This is one of the directions in which we should ultimately seek our own interest. It is diverse, it does not run out of Balkan Stream, but there are extremely many economic indicators that we should look for in relations with Russia. So this step is seen as a political step which must show another intention of the European Union in the context of the talks that are yet to come within the Council of Europe over the next few months. And let me once again say that this proposal of ours for the first time does not bring neither the government nor the prime minister into any particularly active role. We want Parliament as a representative of the citizens of Bulgaria to state its support for changing these policies at European level. That's the goal we're setting. And we are absolutely convinced that the vast majority of the citizens who have chosen us want this. Because the people in Bulgaria, I have talked to many people in the meantime who want to change the sanctions against Russia, are many times more than the people who voted for BSP people Russophiles, but the people who... I do not want to deal with sanctions and cancellations in a Russophile context, but people who in one way or another associate this with wrong policies and believe that this should be abolished, such people in Bulgaria have more than 60%.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u5	Get it over with, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u6	I'm done, Madam President. My insistence in this case is to support it, given that the largest friendship group in this Parliament is the Friendship Group with Russia. It has more than 120 members in parliament, which means that only the members of the Friendship Group to vote for the Friendship Group should this proposal be accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Here you go, Mr. Simov. Then Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u8	Madam President, honourable Members! I would also like to call on you to support our proposal for dropping sanctions, as I believe that this subject will always be on the agenda and on the agenda of 2014, when such sanctions are spoken of. These days, I remembered what articles many analysts from my favorite know-it-alls wrote when the sanctions policy was introduced. According to some of them, when the sanctions were first introduced, only a year later the Russians had to roll from hunger on the streets and want some change in their policies. It turns out that all of this is a fantasy, a hallucination, and therefore the sanctions policy has failed. We see that it is not working, it is not effective, it is not doing its goals achieved and it is high time to really be removed from the European Union's agenda. In my opinion, dropping sanctions would allow something else that is very important. A imbalance will be resolved in the European Union, as we see at the moment that some of the big countries there are calmly bypassing sanctions, trading with Russia, making big projects with it, and smaller countries are in the role of the puppy, which should wait for charity to have its relations with Russia. Such a policy can indeed be pursued. My colleague Anton Kutev used to say the percentages of the people who would support her. I think we have an empirical base to set foot on. Just a few weeks ago, a survey of the Research Center was launched by the Pyu. The international sociological center showed the data: 73% of Bulgarian citizens are positive towards Russia. A policy that we will conduct and, if we accept today here in Parliament, will be consistent with 73% of Bulgarian citizens. I think it's the right policy. A policy that the Bulgarians would approve. Finally, I would like to say something because I remember a few months ago in the Parliament here, from this tribune, Boyko Borisov announced that there is a great hypocrisy in the European Union when it comes to sanctions, that many European politicians were talking about dropping out, but when the big forums came, the issue of sanctions was not raised. I believe that today, with this decision, we are giving Bulgaria the opportunity to end hypocrisy on this subject. What could be better than that?! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Simov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Chukolov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, as Mr. Kutev said, this issue from the party "Attack" we have been putting since 2014, from the very moment of introducing these sanctions. Because these sanctions, what were they really? They showed the vassal policy, the vassal attitude of the United States towards the European Union, the US insists, the European Union also introduced these sanctions. Why? Because a referendum was held in Crimea, where more than 85% of those who participated in the referendum said that this peninsula they wish to be associated with the Russian Federation. And here, please, no speculation at all. I've heard all kinds of nonsense under the barrel of the AKs was held this referendum. The representative of the Bulgarian community in Crimea, our friend, of Atakas, Ivan Abadger, has told us many times, people with a smile went to this referendum, were happy to go to this referendum. These sanctions were introduced with the idea that Russia would thus suffer. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u11	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u12	No, Russia didn't get hurt by that. I've read Russian economists' opinions. Political analysts. They have pondered and argued the following thesis: that Russia, in the condition it was in before the sanctions, an open economy in order to catch up in order to reach Western standards, takes a huge amount of time. But when there are sanctions, and as you know Russia is a self-sufficient country, they help to develop, develop, develop the Russian economy. And it's evolving. So these sanctions don't really matter much to Russia, believe me. They matter to individual countries such as Bulgaria, which are forced to comply with these sanctions imposed by the United States through the European Union. Yes, Bulgaria loses! Absolutely Bulgaria loses from these sanctions! Absolutely! Lose, if you will, and image to the Russian people, because they know perfectly how much Russian blood has been shed for Bulgaria and the attitude towards Bulgaria at the moment there, believe me, is not very nice. And the big companies, do you think they don't find loopholes and they don't do business with Russia? Of course they do. In a conversation with Anatoly Karpov, you know him, the world champion who is currently a member of the Russian State Duma, he is broadcast from the Tumen region, so he says: in Tumen this is a huge territory, naturally, in the Tumen region there are American companies, German companies, English companies. They found their doors, they found their way, they work there, they act there, and, of course, they profit from it. Can any Bulgarian company, even a large Bulgarian company, be compared with these huge international mastodons who have found loopholes anyway? Well, no, you can't. And again you get the double standard for some you can't, for others you can't. Since 2014, we have been explaining this and are demanding that these sanctions be removed. It is good that BSP also raises that question. We leave aside half the opinions you've had over the years. I remember Yanaki Stoilov and I discussed this decision in 2014. Finally, he changed him so much that we didn't know what he meant. And the visit of the then foreign minister to Ukraine, and met with the fascist junta, and there were such moments. It's a good thing that you're asking that question now. The only appeal to you is: let us show that we are a country that holds our economy, our profits, our interest, and support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Chukolov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Petrov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u14	Thank you, Madam President. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u15	Quiet, please! Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u16	I would like the Members of the National Assembly to be able to make informed choices when they vote on this issue. I want to tell you that, since 2014, 10,000 young men have been killed in the Brutal War in Donbas. I would also like to tell you that Ukraine has stopped the water on the 240km channel that was dug in the 1950s, which supplies all Crimea with water. And now, if you are watching really serious shows, you will see that there is gradually returning the old look of Crimea, of North Crimea, which has a poor population because there is no water. There's just no water! I want you to take on these sanctions not just emotionally, but when someone says that sanctions should be abolished, to offer a solution to the MPs, and informed about what should happen, because the mothers of these 10,000 boys are Russian, whether they are Ukrainian, does not matter to them. I want you to keep that in mind when you make a decision. There is a fratricidal war that must be ended, and so far the European Union, as I understand it, is doing everything possible to end this war, but the disaster continues. And I want us to admit, after all, we're a country where we have... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u17	Time, Mr. Petrov!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u18	... compact population, and one morning with joy in a Bulgarian area all vote for separation from Bulgaria and the result is 60-40, what do we do?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. Second line? I can't see. Mr. Chukolov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u20	Thanks for the three minutes, Mr. Petrov. You say there is such a danger to Bulgaria. No, there's no danger of that. There's no danger of that! Did Kosovo have a referendum? No, there was no referendum. There was one in Russia. According to international treaties, legally speaking, what happened in 2014 cannot be reproached in any legal way. That there is a conflict, yes, there is a conflict. And the victims, believe me, are on both sides. On one side come armed formations of their Nazi battalions, and on the other side from the Donbass and the Russian Republic, stand peaceful citizens - mothers with children, elderly people. And there are fighters who protect their families, because these territories......................................... and the Crimea...... just so happened in history that Yeltsin for the White Forest was slightly paid, so to put it softly, and neglected to put it. And how did Crimea and Donbas end up in the Ukrainian Socialist Soviet Republic? Well, there's that, it's written down. The Communists' idea these years was a working and rural power. Ukraine was then a rural country and to become a working and rural authority, well then Lenin decided that these industrial zones would be to the Ukrainian Socialist Republic and so became the working and rural authorities. That mistake they made back then, they just didn't realize what they were doing. Now came the times to be upright and we make another mistake when sanctions were introduced for this. Let's not get any sanctions! There is a Minsk process, there are formats in which this conflict is dealt with, they do their job. Our job to do it in the interests of Bulgaria. That's what I'm offering you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Chukolov. Any other speeches, fellow Members, please?! I don't see anyone else. [[speaking indistinctly]] Oh, okay. Mr. Zablyanov, then Mr. Gechev, and Mr. Ermenkov, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u22	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will first introduce you to the text of the draft decision to which I suppose a large part of you have not paid attention. And I would like to draw attention to our proposal to the National Assembly. It is as follows: "It is announced that the sanctions imposed by a decision of the European Council in respect of the Russian Federation and against reciprocal sanctions by the Russian Federation against the Member States of the European Union are repealed. Secondly, he directed the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria to inform the European Parliament, as well as the parliaments of the Member States of the European Union. I would like to emphasise that this draft of a decision does not result in obligations for the executive power, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the government regarding Bulgaria's vote in collective bodies of the European Union. In this sense, I confirm what my colleague Anton Kutev said that this act, this decision of the National Assembly, has an expression of political will rather than to oblige the Bulgarian institutions. I will start with the following quote: I have long spoken that the age of crossing borders has passed. Today, we are living in a completely new age, the age of globalisation, technology and information. I would say that today we are living in the age of words, of speech and of discussion. We need dialogue with Russia, we need to complete this stage and move towards creation. In this case, I quote Lech Valensa. There is no need for additional representation of Lech Valensa and it could hardly be suspected of pro-Russian emotional feelings. What prompted the opinion expressed by the first President of Poland after the changes? Most likely, from the past six years in which they act, as my colleague previously said, several sanctions regimes against Russia, a regime of economic sanctions introduced on the basis of the so-called Minsk agreements, i.e. the European Union has put as a condition for lifting economic sanctions progress in the field of Minsk agreements. The format for these agreements, for the talks on them and for their implementation, is the so-called Normand Four, which had a meeting in December in Paris. As a result of this meeting and of the agreements that were reached, clear progress was made in the relations between Russia and Ukraine, including through the release of prisoners of war from captured Ukrainian ships several months earlier. In addition, sanctions have been introduced, as has already been noted, against 170 Russian citizens, above all representatives of the state leadership, representatives of the State Duma, of the Federation Council, of the Russian business on which travel to Europe is limited, meaning sanctions are imposed on individuals. These sanctions were imposed in connection with the so-called annex of the Crimean Peninsula. All these sanctions represent a comprehensive common EU policy of opposition to the Russian Federation, which had political results as a last resort. These political results should have been: strengthening Ukraine, supporting Ukraine in its fight for territorial integrity and ending military conflicts in its eastern part. As a result of the six years of sanctions and the sharpening of relations, the only progress that was made was with regard to the President of Ukraine and that, in fact, President Poroshenko, who was the personification of this policy, which was supported by the European Union in the acute confrontation and in the continuation of the military clashes, was replaced by the vast majority of the votes of the Ukrainian people, of Ukrainian citizens. In other words, Ukraine, the government, the President of Ukraine, received genuine support from their citizens to change the policy of confrontation, the policy of aggression with a clear desire to move towards a policy of dialogue, towards a policy of agreements, towards achieving the real dimensions recorded in the Minsk agreements. In this regard, the Ukrainian side demonstrated its goodwill at the meeting in Paris in 2019 and through the mediation of the Federal Republic of Germany and France managed to implement some significant steps in deescalation of tensions in Donbas, including reducing the intensity of military clashes, distinguishing the countries that are in conflict, withdrawing heavy weapons, all those parameters that were recorded in the Minsk agreements. Of course, there remain some important conditions in Minsk agreements, which will undoubtedly be the subject of a discussion between the Russian Federation and Ukraine in the coming months, years. This is one of the key points, this is the issue of the Ukrainian Language Act "one act of the Ukrainian Parliament, of the Ukrainian Government, which met serious resistance in the Council of Europe, which adopted a special resolution regarding the Ukrainian Language Act as discrimination against the huge minority groups inhabiting the territory of today's Ukraine. In essence, progress towards regulating relations between Russia and Ukraine is based on mutual understanding, on the implementation of Minsk agreements and on promoting conditions for dialogue. I believe that the Bulgarian Parliament has sufficient grounds on the basis of the experience of the current regime of sanctions, which is, above all, destructive. I would like to draw attention to some of the most general conditions of these sanctions in their economic area. Firstly, this is the ban on Russian financial institutions, including banks and other investment funds for access to the financial markets of the European Union and for interaction with the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. It is difficult to describe or measure the losses of this cooperation, but I think that these financial restrictive measures have hardly significantly affected the Russian Federation's access to the global financial markets and its own economy. There are limited relations in the field of oil, technology, limited relations in the trade of special products and weapons. That is, quite specific areas which can hardly be characterised as comprehensive sanctions, but at the same time they are destroying the trust policy, destroying the political relations, questioning the communication between the institutions of the European countries and Russia, which is contrary to the interests of Bulgaria. Of course, here I will emphasise the fact that the Republic of Bulgaria and our National Assembly are acting fully within the framework of the common European policy on Russia. It is no accident that I started with Lech Valensa's statement in this direction, such an opinion is shared by a number of famous European politicians from the left and right. There are political acts of the parliaments of Member States of the European Union in the direction of sanctions. What we should have in mind today is that this process is gaining speed. It would be good for Bulgaria as a country traditionally close to Russia, the Bulgarian people as related to the Russian people to take those initiatives, those steps, those actions that could encourage the overall European policy in this direction. This is the meaning of our Draft Decision which has been tabled today. We address all parliamentary groups, the MPs who believe that the gradual cancellation of the regime of sanctions against the Russian Federation is a policy without alternative, to support our draft decision, thus demonstrating to our Russian partners the will of Bulgarian citizens, the Bulgarian state to build a new type of relationship between the European Union and the Russian Federation. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u23	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Gechev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u24	Let's alternate the groups, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u25	That's what my colleagues said. I'm making a list. [[Relations from the National Representative Dragomir Stoinev.]] There are no volunteers, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u26	Madam President, honourable Members! What are the facts? Prior to the introduction of sanctions against Russia, the trade turnover between the European Union and Russia was 340 billion. EUR; 2017 is 191 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 108 (3) of the Treaty. Euros. At the same time, in the field of services, the commercial turnover is around 40 billion. EUR. a reduction of about 25% since before the introduction of the sanctions. What's so interesting about this? Firstly, in the last three years, the volume of trade between the European Union has grown at an earlier pace and is approaching the limits of the volume of trade since before the introduction of sanctions. In the next few years, it will be aligned and increased. Secondly, it is noticeable that the initiator of sanctions, if you look at the trade turnover for 2019 and 2014, will see that the decrease in the trade turnover of the originator of the sanctions is around 20%. That is, both the US and the European Union are reducing trade turnover with Russia, only the one who initiates the sanctions shrinks them twice as much as those who implement them in the European Union. That's a very interesting fact. At the same time, over the past three years, the United States has increased trade turnover with Russia, even at the cost of an increase in the trade deficit with Russia, which was almost 13 billion. the dollar in 2014, and now the imports from Russia are growing ahead and reaching almost 17 billion. The dollar. In addition, if you look at the movement of investments, direct investment in Russia with a build-up in 2018 by the European Union is already moving within 235 billion. Euros. At the same time, the capital exported from Russia to the European Union in the form of various direct investments amounted to 83 billion. Euros. The figures show that the dynamics of investments from the European Union to Russia are growing ahead of the investments from Russia to the European Union. For your information, honourable Members, Germany and France have been extremely active in terms of investment and trade in recent years. The two leading countries of the European Union - France and Germany - have the highest dynamics compared to the European Union's averages on trade turnover growth and investment growth. Last year, President Putin and the president of the Mercedes opened the new factory of the Mercedes for a sedan E-class near Moscow 40 km away, which will produce approximately 30 000 cars per year. If you ask what the other leading German concern is doing, I will tell you: BMW has long assembled in Kaliningrad and exported light cars to mainland Russia. Also in Kaluga, not far from Moscow, the other company "Audi" has long settled in Russia. So I'm going to use the expression, while the baboons strictly respect sanctions, countries such as Bulgaria, the United States of America, Germany and France increase their exports. By the way, honourable Members, we have done a comparative analysis to see how sanctions have affected the volume of trade of different groups of goods. And guess that mostly the turnover of products related to agriculture has decreased. 43%.......................................................................................... What does that mean? That the countries whose share of agricultural products was the largest to Russia paid the highest price! And what is this country of the European Union? Is it Germany or France?!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u27	Poland!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u28	No, this is Bulgaria. In addition, if you look at the investments in Russia, you will see, as I said, Germany and France are increasing these investments. For example, the Germans invested in 2019. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of 300 million. euros in Russia in just one year. That's three billion. 300 million. EUR per year ahead of the biggest German investments since 2014. Before the introduction of sanctions. At the same time, France has increased its investment in Russia in the area of exploitation of natural resources in the Arctic. For your information, the French company "Total" has acquired 10% of the project. And note that French and German companies I have a list, actively involved in the construction of Nord Stream 2 with investments, with technologies and with experts. While we buried South Stream and are now waiting to build the small tube called Balkan Stream, which is two or three times smaller, Mrs Merkel is our friend, the chancellor, and French President Macron said that Nord Stream 2 will be completed and it will be completed. In conclusion, honourable Members, in economic history, there is not a single case in which economic sanctions have done any work but help the country that has been sanctioned. I'll give you an example that's used in textbooks. You remember years ago the talk of Cuba was that it behaved thanks to the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe's aids, which were great sanctions against Cuba, closed for decades by the United States and some of their allies. And what's the score?! Cuba is the only sozstra in the Western hemisphere that, despite the sanctions, is difficult to survive. [[Noise and lines.]] Nothing ideological! Again, there is not a single case in which sanctions have resulted in any final result in the benefit of those who apply them. What's the conclusion? Dear friends, we must give the Bulgarian business a chance because what is the situation at the moment, honourable Members?! Germany's exports to the most developed economy in the European Union, compared to the European market, were 1.8% lower in 2019. I am talking about the internal market. Compared to the Eurozone, exports of German goods and services have decreased by more than 2% of the most competitive economy in the European Union! And what is the picture, fellow Members?! The growth in the European Union and the Eurozone is around 1%, and now they are entering an economic crisis, as for the first time the German economy is with minus 0,6 shrinking from the last 10 years after the last 2007 crisis. That is to say, for the Bulgarian business competition in the European Union is increasing, as the reduction of growth and the restriction of market opportunities make the battle between the leading companies and within the European market even more difficult for us. The strongest economies in Europe are oriented towards exports and imports to third countries to compensate for losses in markets in the shrinking economy of the European Union. Those who take ahead are French, German, Italian, Czech, Hungarian. While we're holding 600 million. EUR for reactors in the mud in Belene, Czech Republic and Hungary, despite the pressure of the United States, are expanding their nuclear plants. And they will be much lighter to land, so to speak, as a result of the Green Package of Europe, while Bulgaria again falls into an unbrought vineyard. In conclusion, let's look at the facts as they are. Dear colleagues, we invite you to support our proposal not for political and other reasons, but to protect and give a chance to the business interests of Bulgarian companies. For while others knit their baskets, we clap our hands, we serve, and the cost of serving is great. Let us do the same as France, as Germany, as Italy, as the Czech Republic and Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. - What's the line? I can't see. Before I give the floor to Mr. Ermenkov, I will ask the House if there are any speeches from the other parliamentary groups, please state. Here you are, Mrs. Grozdanova. We'll alternate the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u30	Madam President, honourable Members! I think it's normal for us to alternate the groups to have different points of view, and finally not to say that we are actually ending the debate and determining the direction of the solution. It is very difficult for me to comment on this particular text of the Draft Decision, so the Committee on Foreign Policy and its leadership decided not to consider it. Because, as the text is formulated, it does not correspond to the mechanisms under which the Bulgarian State operates, I mean the relations between the executive and legislative authorities, which are established in the Constitution, does not also correspond to the decision-making mechanisms in the European Union. There is enough talk about why sanctions are imposed as such and when they are imposed. In our view, sanctions are a mechanism for regulating the crisis in Ukraine and we believe that their application is necessary. Penalties are measures against the violation of international law and against the distorted regional and international security environment. If there are counterarguments against this, I agree to discuss them. I agree that dialogue with Russia is needed. Such dialogue exists. I will recall 2019 when the delegation of the Russian Federation returned to the Council of Europe, but then you were not there to support this return by voting, not by speaking. Yes, political will could express the Bulgarian Parliament, but expressed, this political will would not lead to legal consequences and results of this decision. The main bodies of the European Union, as I started, for the non-compliance competent in foreign policy matters are the European Council and the Council of the European Union. The European Council unanimously decides on foreign policy issues and sets the political direction of these decisions. The European Council shall set and define specific restrictive measures, including their scope. In this regard, Heads of State or Government within the European Council, as I said, agree with unanimity on these issues. This issue has already been put to the discussion of whether foreign policy decisions should always be taken only by consensus or by a two-thirds majority, but as seen in recent debates on this issue, the decisions should still be taken by consensus, because we should assess them as sensitive. In Bulgaria, the mechanism of interaction between the executive and legislative authorities excludes the imposition of actions and the prescription of acts depriving the Council of Ministers of its guaranteed independence at constitutional level and discretion, in the process of directing the policy of the Republic of Bulgaria on European Union issues, as well as other foreign policy directions. I therefore do not accept the opinion you have announced that if the National Assembly takes the decision on this subject, it will not be binding. If you didn't want a binding character, you could make a declaration, declare your political will, spread this declaration as you suggest. 2, to the European Parliament and to the other national parliaments through their internal party contacts. But that's not the case. In a nutshell. The adoption of such a draft decision with the proposed content would be contrary to the constitutional principle of separation of authorities, and I believe that we all argue that we hold on to this principle. Similarly, informing the European Parliament of the decision on restrictive measures imposed by the European Union would not affect Union policy as the European Parliament does not participate in the formation of that policy. This is important to understand not from us, because we should know it, but especially from our constituents. Some internal policy references. It is interesting, as it was said, that until now Mr. Siderov was mainly the driver of these proposals for draft solutions, and now I see that he has been replaced by the entire BSP group. I'm interested that a former foreign minister has signed a decision like this. He could explain why. I would also like to tell you that we are very much, as I said at the beginning, holding on to our contacts with the Russian Federation. Here is a reference to your t. In addition to national parliaments, the European Parliament, I think that the President of the Russian Federation should be informed of what we would decide today. The relations between Bulgaria and Russia are mutual and are not based solely on the restrictive measures of the European Union concerning the crisis in Ukraine. I think this became clear yesterday when, with the great support of the European Commission, I mean both administrative and political, a decision was made to reduce the price of gas for Bulgaria by 40%, which is actually in favor of our economy and this cannot be denied. From the GERB group we will not support this draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u31	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. Mr. Kutev first asked for a line, then Mr. Zablyanov and a third line, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u32	Let's go! Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go,
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u33	It's been extended.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u34	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Grozdanova, first of all, the sanctions have started by trying to regulate the crisis with Ukraine. However, our statement is that this has not been achieved and, in practice, after six years of sanctions, there is no regulation of the crisis with Ukraine. This obviously means that the tools to be used are not those. That is precisely the statement by which we propose such a decision. Otherwise, the argument that we are violating constitutional order in the state by proposing to take a decision of the National Assembly is absolutely absurd and highly speculative. The National Assembly shall be that authority in the State where the State is a parliamentary republic or, more precisely, a republic with parliamentary governance that makes policy decisions. Moreover, this decision that we have proposed to you, on no occasion, and at no point is trying to impose any policies on the government and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. So this is about the extraordinary representation of the National Assembly as a representative of the citizens. Since I have not heard from you to refute the thesis expressed repeatedly that the vast majority of Bulgarians do not support the policy of sanctions, and this has been proven with enough research, after all we are the representatives of these citizens and if they do not support it, we should represent their will. If we do not do so, this means that we are replacing the will of the citizens and in this House is ruling someone else and not the citizens of Bulgaria. Because if this decision does not pass, it will turn out that the citizens obviously think differently than the MPs, and precisely the MPs of the majority. Much of your own voters, a huge part of them, are against sanctions against Russia. These arguments as to how this unconstitutional was, there is nothing unconstitutional! It is a declaration of clear political will that is not your will, but the will of your constituents. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Second line, Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u36	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Grozdanova, I have listened carefully to the reasons by which you refuse to support our draft decision, and I would like to refer to one of them, who has recently been particularly concerned with the fact that you have not only spoken, but as a whole, as a basis for the interpretation of bilateral and multilateral relations. The question of the state of international law. International law, unlike other types of law, is the result and function of the voluntary acceptance of the rules of that law by entities, in this case national states. There is no other form of functioning of international law. The imposition of international law by force is subject only to the prerogatives of the UN Security Council. In my line, I would like to draw attention to one more fact. The initiative for a meeting of the five member states of the UN Security Council is about to take place. Thus, the question of the state of international law is not a question of personal interpretation or unilateral interpretation of international law by some of the entities that apply it or do not apply it. With regard to sanctions for the violation of the borders and the state of the rights of citizens in individual countries, I would like to point out the example of one of our neighbouring countries, which is essentially an invader, is conducting military action with subsequent numerous civilian and other victims, material destruction. It is in no way subject to a system of sanctions of the European Union, and is even in a candidate mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u37	The weather, Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u38	I'm done, Madam President. A more eloquent example of a double standard and the absence of legal and regulatory thinking I cannot imagine.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u39	Thank you. Mr. Ermenkov, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u40	Mrs. President, Mrs. Grozdanova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! What we have heard from Mrs. Grozdanova as a continuation of what Mr. Zablyanov said that in international law at the moment, you know very well, the main contradictions that exist about what is a priority. The right of states to self-determination or inviolability of borders after World War II. Unfortunately, each of these priorities is used by the great powers according to their interests. An example is Kosovo, other countries are an example, and I do not want to go into these details. So this cannot be an argument for expressing the attitude of the National Assembly towards a problem which concerns not so much the sanctions against Russia, because we all see the results of these sanctions and have been said repeatedly, not what was sought. On the contrary, Russia was becoming more and more satisfied with its internal needs despite sanctions or perhaps thanks to them. The second thing I would like to say to you is that it is not ethical in any way to share what the National Assembly can and cannot do and is it entitled to make any decisions after exactly two weeks ago we have taken a unanimous decision which obliges the government to defend a position in the European Union. Right? So what you are saying that we are not in our power, somehow when it comes to saving the mistakes of the government.. can, and when it concerns a vital problem for Bulgaria and the Bulgarian economy, it cannot! Don't brag about the price of gas, because if it weren't for us from the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u41	That's a different subject, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u42	I'm graduating. I've got more!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u43	You do, but that's not the topic right now about gas.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u44	On the contrary, she talked about the price of gas and I will answer. Don't, Madam President! I want a 30-second increase in time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u45	Go, go, go!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u46	If it wasn't for us of the Bulgarian Socialist Party to initiate again the government's behaviour against the gas deal and it was the government's duty to do so, this money that you are now saving would have gone to private companies. So let's be consistent. When it comes to the interests of the state, first of all, the parliament decides, then the government implements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. You missed the role of president for the price of gas. [[Arrival in GERB.]] Mrs. Grozdanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u48	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear replicators, what cannot and what the National Assembly can do depends on the majority of it. The majority in it is determined by the vote of the Bulgarian voter. For the Constitution, I am absolutely right. You can interpret it differently, but when you gather a majority for its change, you can change it. Mr. Kutev, whether or not the sanctions have managed to regulate the crisis in Ukraine, you cannot know because they still exist. I don't know what else you're offering?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u49	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. Mr. Ermenkov made a statement. Mrs. Ninova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I was challenged by Mrs. Grozdanova with several sentences. What can and cannot the Bulgarian Parliament decide only the Constitution and the laws of the country. They stand above any majority, regardless of which parties and how it is formulated. Obviously GERB does not dispute the facts in essence and do not criticize our proposal on the substance, but you are looking for a reason to reject it and find it in procedural terms. I would like to remind you of a much more dramatic discussion here in Parliament, which took place on July 20, 2018 on a topic which was then up to date, but today is also the current Then we similarly submitted a proposal from the opposition, you were similarly opposed, but Mr. Borisov came, it was my question to him, and we made a decision. And the National Assembly ruled on this issue with a decision that Bulgaria should not sign bilateral agreements on the return of migrants and the admission of refugees. And with that, you did not say that we are limiting the powers of the Council of Ministers, that we are interfering with the executive power or that we are violating the Constitution. Then, moreover, we obliged the Council of Ministers not to express a position before Parliament's approval. And of course that makes sense because above all else in the parliamentary republic is the Bulgarian Parliament, so this argument does not apply. The next is that the Council of Europe is adopting decisions unanimously. Of course we know this, but does this prevent the Bulgarian Parliament and the Bulgarian Prime Minister from expressing Bulgaria's national position, let it be discussed there, and if consent is reached, it is not decided if it is not achieved? The fact that full unanimity is sought in the Council does not mean that Bulgaria should not have its own position on important international issues, so both your arguments are not essential, are not the substance of our proposal. If you have any arguments on the substance, put them on the table. You're obviously against our proposal. Tell yourself directly so that all the Bulgarian citizens and our partners in Europe and the international community know that you are against it. That's fair and square. Let's vote and what you say the majority has decided, but let's know who offers and who decides. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Gazhev made a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will speak essentially on the subject of the debate and on the various positions that have been expressed so far by the representatives of the importers because there is a contradiction between these positions. I would just like to say one thing at the beginning of the sanctions, as an element of a diplomatic instrument, matter, even rather have the nature to protect international order, international law and international security, so that it does not come to a deeper conflict, so that it does not come to other, worse things. The sanctions are whether they will be economic, whether they will be diplomatic, to limit access to territories and so on, they are a diplomatic tool to prevent worse things from happening. Let's get back to where the sanctions came from. The sanctions followed the illegal annexation of Crimea and the war in Donbas. They were adopted in March 2014, subsequently established in July 2014 by the BSP Government within the European Council. GERB is not the creator of these sanctions. We simply follow the policy that was established during the government of BSP in 2013 and 2014. By the way, these sanctions are supported by President Radev's office in 2017. This is a consistent policy of various Bulgarian governments from 2014 to today. Speaking of sanctions, let's think about it anyway or recall rather what the sanctions themselves are, because, as I listened to the speeches, first, some representatives said that it was hardly affecting the ordinary Russian or European citizen, then they were actually not affected, only elements of the elite of the Russian Federation were affected, but to remember what they were specifically. The first round of sanctions are: freezing assets, limiting travels of between 150 and 170 people, representatives of the Russian state and large Russian corporations, as well as freezing their assets in European banks. The restrictive measures related to the illegal annexation of Crimea and Sevastopol are mainly to limit trade in goods originating in Crimea and the regions affected by the war, as well as tourism, respectively the prohibition on tourism. The main economic measures are aimed at several aspects. By the way, the first was mentioned and is a ban on access to the primary and secondary capital market. This does not affect precisely the Bulgarian business that the European Union has banned access to, notice, state institutions, state banks and state companies from the Russian Federation to the European capital market, not private ones. It is also prohibited to trade arms, dual-use goods and, notice, with sensitive technologies related to the mining and gas industry. Here Bulgaria is indeed a leading producer and we, by the way, are competitors in the defence industry with the Russian Federation and we are not exporting to the Russian Federation. Nowhere is it said to ban trade in automotive or agricultural production, so many of the arguments that have been put forward are completely untenable because they are not an element of sanctions. As we can see, trade and political dialogue between the European Union and the Russian Federation is improving in contrast to 2014, but let us not forget what these sanctions have imposed. This was the illegal annexation of Crimea and the war in Donbas. And here, before us, as MPs sits a simple choice if it is not the sanctions, then what? What do you suggest? One option is to move on to a heavier element of what, to an armed conflict? Or let's say it doesn't really matter, and if the big guy thinks he wants to take something from the little guy, he can take it, and we won't do anything about it. Here is the element of international law, here is the element to choose whether we prefer Europe from Yalta or Europe from Helsinki. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u53	Thank you, dear Mr. Gadget. - What's the line? Mr. Manushev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Gazhev, I want to complete what you said or ask you why you didn't say it. The sanctions really concern exactly 150 natural and 40 legal persons. The other things you and Mr. Jablyanov said, but none of us today said anything about Russia's counter-stations affecting the Bulgarian producer. Russia's contractions are for food products, fresh products and were introduced by Russia in 2014, but what's interesting? In 2016, former Russian Prime Minister Medvedev urged Russia's counter-stations not to be cancelled to the EU countries, as they led to a sharp increase and development of Russian agriculture, given the opportunity for Russian producers to make long-term investments. And they call on these contractions, which directly affect the Bulgarian producer with imports of Bulgarian products to the Russian market, these sanctions to continue and the Bulgarians to be unable to import, so that we suffer from the contractions of Russia and this is the call of the Russian government. Mr. Medvedev says there are a great many demands and actions by Russian farmers to continue these sanctions as much as possible. Then why don't we ask Russia to cancel the counter-sanctions against us and we talk about the things we're talking about? [[Heckling]] It is, but we are concerned with precisely these things relating to agricultural production and exports to Russia. Russia's desire and intentions to continue these sanctions, that is, to never cancel them, what will it lead to? We will take measures by things that Mr. Gazhev said, which do not directly affect Bulgaria, and those that directly concern us, they are from the Russian side and not from us to them.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u55	Thank you, Mr. Manushev. A line? [[Noise and lines.]] Let me see if there's any lines. I can't see. Come in the manner of conduct, Mr. Zablyanov. [[(Replys:) What's with the doppelganger? Won't there be a doppelganger?]] Excuse me! I'm sorry about the duvet, Mr. Gajev. Sorry, that was a line. I just got distracted... I apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Manushev, while in 2014 the European Council and the foreign ministers in the European Union, including the foreign ministers of Bulgaria present here, when they were considering what sanctions to impose on the Russian Federation on the illegal annexation of Crimea, were looking precisely at this, not to affect a common market, or rather to model them so as to enable dialogue with Russia if Russia wanted dialogue, of course, and not just to ban importers and so on. By the way, speaking of agricultural products, it has been said that Bulgaria is almost one of the biggest victims, in fact the biggest victim of the ban on exports of agricultural products is Poland. If you remember, a few years ago the Bulgarian market was flooded by Polish agricultural products precisely because of this ban on imports into the Russian Federation. But, anyway, over the years this problem has been regulated by the market and at the moment it is not a problem for the Bulgarian economy at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u57	Thank you, dear Mr. Gadget. Mr. Zablyanov, in the manner of conduct. Then Mr. Ermenkov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u58	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to help your distraction, which you yourself have confessed to, and to tell you that Mr. Manushev basically made a statement and did not make a reply to Mr. Gajev because in his presentation he developed those who had no bearing on Mr. Gajev's statement... [[Noise and lines.]] I also turn around... Since those in Mr. Manushev's speech were presented interestingly, I turn around to make them in the form of a speech, there is no need to make them in the form of a replica. I do not understand this parliamentary technique at this very moment. As far as the counter-scan regime is concerned, they're present in our Project Decision, so I think there's no reason...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u59	Is this the way it's supposed to be?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u60	In the manner of conduct, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u61	That's not the way you say it, Mr. Lazarov. Excuse me!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u62	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. [[Laughs]] Mr. Bikov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u63	Madam President, honourable Members! We are looking at a solution that is more in line with the calendar of BSP than with the calendar of Bulgaria, with the calendar of Europe, with the calendar of the world, with the calendar of geopolitics why today, why not three weeks ago, why not during the service government of Mr. Radev, when the sanctions were confirmed and then... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u64	Please! Please be quiet, colleagues! Let's listen to each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u65	...and then on a government level, this debate could also be raised in the Council of the European Union, where President Radev went. You could have done it! That's not the point. What do you suggest? You propose, as Adam Mihnih said in 2014: He's also a move, even though it's empty. It brings consequences, as in chess, and usually, if a player makes any blank moves, ultimately loses the party. You do not see the context of the current situation because you are blinded by some election campaign within the party. We have seen all the wings support, now they have said who is for Russia, who is against Russia. You're all for Russia, we get it. I hope your party voters understand that too. But you want to drag the whole country into your dramas, and that's not good. You see that we have tensions in the Middle East, there is a serious situation very close to us, there is a lot of twisted relations between the various geopolitical factors and you say: give now the Bulgarian Parliament to say its opinion on one question, and what happens next. They may not drop the sanctions, because if we do not reach consensus in the Council of the European Union, and there is consensus that there should be sanctions, there is full consensus, there is no state... But you say, not our country, not our government, but parliament just to say so, let's... we're against sanctions... Second of all, you're not suggesting what? You say: they do not achieve results. Is it going to increase? To have a more serious policy in this regard, or to just fall, and this will work? The Crimea will automatically be returned to Ukraine if sanctions fall. Is that what you're saying? Or they will stop fighting there because, as far as I know, they continue to be fought in one way or another. The problem is much more complicated than what you're proposing. But we don't engage the government. But we don't engage the government, we engage the entire country. A decision of the National Assembly is a very serious thing. It's not just some newsletter about geopolitical factors. We defend the Bulgarian national interest. Yes, we want to have a good relationship with Russia. And with other geopolitical factors, not only with Russia, this is a matter of balance, but ultimately all we do is protect our interest. And international law is entirely in our interest, because we are not a country that can work from the position of power. We can't build armies back and forth and press any geopolitical factors. We rely on international law to safeguard our territorial integrity as well as Ukraine relies on international law to protect theirs which has been violated. We are not against changing borders in ourselves simply because we are good people, but because we have no national interest in any change of borders in the area where we live, because this could affect us too. Kosovo is mentioned here, only Kosovo does not join a country. There was a war in Kosovo and that was not good. We've suffered from this war too. Every border change risks war and that, if you don't know it, I'm telling you. But it is not the way with some empty moves that did not engage anyone, to raise questions that we cannot solve, because you are not offering a solution, you are simply saying: " Let us raise the question. " - What about the solution?! Do we have any tools to solve it and I'll give my opinion there?! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The problem is that you're not offering anything you've entered the campaign, you want to state your position with regard to Russia. Obviously, there, in your party, this is a very important topic, but for us it is even more important because we are also responsible for the country, not only for the party. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u66	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Ermenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u67	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Just for the record, I think that if not for the seventh time, then for at least the sixth time we make one such decision, and before we've been in any kind, as colleagues are alive interested in our organizational work, an election campaign. I would just like to say to you that whether consensus is achieved or not, I will give you an example with the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and the Economic and Security Committee, where the resolution that should have been adopted with regard to sanctions against Russia has not been adopted. It wasn't accepted because the parties couldn't reach an agreement. There is something that is wrong with these sanctions, there is something that needs to be changed, and it needs to be changed in the interests of the Bulgarian economy. It must be changed in the interests of the Bulgarian national interest, because what you are proposing here is to go after the events, in the Kilvatera of European policy, which is not always one-way and is not always in the interests of Bulgaria, which we have proved by our decisions here in Parliament, when we have to defend our interest instead of being in the fairway, instead of being where politics are formed, where important decisions are made not only for Bulgaria but also for the European Union. In my opinion, a decision we're about to make here is not an idle one. One decision we will make here is an expression of the will of the Bulgarian people expressed through its representatives in parliament. I ask at the end, because I have a little time, I will ask the question in a moment - colleagues from GERB, who will go upstairs to the Friendship Group Bulgaria - Russia, how will you look your colleagues in the eye when you will now vote against the cancellation of the sanctions, against this decision of ours? Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u68	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Manushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u69	Mrs. Chairman! My line is to the point. He uses sea terms and says we should be in the fairway. We're right there, Mr. Ermenkov. Farvater means a certain path that we follow along with all the countries of the European Union. [[Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.]] The Kilwart means we're behind someone. [[Laughter and excitement.]] That means going behind someone, so the term wasn't used properly and properly.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u70	Thank you, Mr. Manushev. Second line? Mr. Nedyalkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u71	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, after we have clarified the terminology of sea navigation, I would like you to explain very briefly in the terminology of chess when can one move be made freely and when will it be chugzwang?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u72	Let's do it on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u73	It is very bad if this move that we are proposing now is made by parliament in Tsugzwang.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u74	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Any other lines? Mr. Ermenkov, please explain to your colleagues the concepts of chess...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u75	Maybe just for naval chess.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u76	If we combine the two lines, something like this will come up.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u77	If we combine the two lines, we'll get a sea chess game, but let's be serious. Yes, Mr. Manushev, we are currently walking in the policy kilvatera, following things that are already decided, which are already formed, although the European Union is not united in this regard. Both France and Germany and other countries show doubts, and that is why we are following the events. It's in the kelvatera and you know it very well. And in the fairway, it means setting the course, giving those guidelines to the European Union, which are both in its interest and in our interest. There's no contradiction. I used the terminology very correctly, you probably didn't hear what I said. The empty move is also sometimes a move in chess that leads to victory, and the zugzwang is when you are subjected to events that have already occurred and you have no other useful move. I am convinced that sooner or later this Parliament will indeed have no other useful move but to adopt one such decision, but I hope that we will do so with conscience, willingly and knowing that we defend at least 70% of the population, we define and express its will. And everything else you're saying is formalistic and why something can't happen. We can if we want to. I say again, the parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria is the one who is defining the policies in the country because we are a parliamentary republic because we are the ones who need to determine where, in what direction and in what frames Bulgaria should move. The government must carry out our will and there is no contradiction here, there is no violation of the separation of powers. I'll tell you one more thing. I'm not going to use the three minutes because I think it's pointless to say something that you've decided not to do anyway. Tomorrow, when the time comes for this decision, I will ask you: where were you when we were supposed to take it and why are you taking it now that you have no other choice? Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u78	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Any other speeches? I can't see. Colleagues, we're going to vote. I'm closing the debate. I'll read to you: Project! DECISION reviewing the European Union's sanctions policy with regard to the Russian Federation The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. The sanctions imposed by a decision of the European Council in respect of the Russian Federation and against reciprocal sanctions by the Russian Federation against the Member States of the European Union are hereby declared to be repealed. 2. Instructs the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria to inform the European Parliament, as well as the parliaments of the Member States of the European Union, of the decision adopted. Colleagues, I'll wait for the MPs to take their seats. Please, voting mode. They voted 193 MPs: for 82, against 60, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u79	Colleagues, we move on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR MANAGEMENT BY THE EUROPEAN STRUCTURAL AND INVESTIGATION FUNDS. [[Noise.]] I'm waiting ten seconds for the room to calm down. I think we can start the committee reports now. The report of the Committee on Budget and Finance is the first. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u80	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act, No 054-01-10, submitted by the National Representative Ivelina Vassileva and the National Representative Evgenia Angelova on 12 February 2020. At a meeting held on 20 February 2020, the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act, No 054-01-10, submitted by the MPs Ivelina Vasileva and Evgenia Angelova on 12 February 2020. The bill was presented by Mrs. Evgenia Angelova. The adoption of the bill aims to: - the introduction of a special provision in the Law regarding the electronic communication of individual administrative acts issued under the Law on the Management of Funds of the European Structural and Investment Funds, which will overcome already existing contradictions in the caselaw and will prevent any fluctuations in the administrative practice of the managing authorities; - the explicit settlement of electronic communication by legal standard is also necessary in view of the latest amendment to the Administrative Procedure Code, in force from 10 October 2019, which introduces the method of electronic communication and service of the instrument through the information system for secure electronic service; - uniformisation of the current amount of the proportional state fee set out in art. 27, para. 6 of the Law on the Management of Funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds as 1% of the material interest, with this introduced in the Administrative Procedure Code for Cassation Industries - the settlement of electronic communication requires that the act of refusal of verification be expressly provided for in the Law in respect of all acts issued by the managing authorities in the administrative proceedings governed by the European Structural and Investment Funds Fund Management Act; - a technical version relating to the adjustment of the reference to the provision of conflict of interest in accordance with the newly adopted EU Regulation 2018/1046 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union. The managing authorities, candidates and beneficiaries of financial assistance are interested parties. The proposed amendments do not increase the administrative burden and do not require structural changes. The proposed bill does not require any changes to other regulations. After the discussion, the members of the Budget and Finance Committee expressed their principled support for the proposed bill by concluding its discussion with the following results: 17 votes for the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act, No 054-01-10, submitted by the National Representatives Ivelina Vasileva and Evgenia Angelova on February 12, 2020, submitted by the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u81	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. We are moving on to the Report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act, No 054-01-10, submitted by the MPs Ivelina Vassileva and Evgenia Angelova 12 February 2020 At its regular meeting on 26 February 2020, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law for amendment and supplement to the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act, No 054-01-10, submitted by the MPs Ivelina Vasileva and Evgenia Angelova. The bill was presented by Mrs. Ivelina Vassileva. The importers point out that the proposals made for amending and supplementing the Law on the Management of Funds from the ESI Funds are related to the electronic communication of administrative acts issued on the grounds provided for in the Law on the Management of Funds from the ESI Funds. It is expected with the introduction of a special provision in the Law regarding the electronic communication of individual administrative acts issued under the Law on the Management of Funds of the European Structural and Investment Funds to overcome already existing contradictions in the caselaw and to prevent any fluctuations in the administrative practice of the managing authorities. The proposed changes are also necessary due to technical amendments relating to the adjustment of the reference to the provision of conflict of interest in accordance with the newly adopted EU Regulation 2018/1046 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed by 7 votes for the National Assembly to adopt the Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act, No 054-01-10, submitted by the MPs Ivelina Vassileva and Evgenia Angelova on 12 February 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u83	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. The latest report belongs to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Here you are to present the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I'll introduce you to: ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Legal Affairs on a bill amending and supplementing the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act, No 054-01-10, submitted by the MPs Ivelina Vassileva and Evgenia Angelova on 12 February 2020. At its meeting held on 19 February 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act, No 054-01-10, submitted by Ivelina Vasilova Vasileva and Evgenia Danylova Angelova on 12 February 2020. The bill was presented by Mrs. Alexandrova, who pointed out that the European Structural and Investment Funds Fund Management Act provides for the exchange of information and documents between the managing authorities, candidates and beneficiaries, including the communication of individual administrative acts, to be carried out through an information system for secure electronic service. It clarified that the purpose of the changes was to establish electronic communication as a special order of communication applicable to the general rules of service laid down in the Administrative Procedure Code. The Law uniformises the amount of the proportional state fee collected in challenging the individual administrative acts under the European Structural and Investment Funds Fund Management Act and the state fee due in the administrative process and creates a legal possibility for electronic service of refusals for established ineligible costs included in the beneficiaries' requests for payment. The amendments to the Law introduce the requirements of Regulation (EU) 2018/1046 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 July 2018 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union concerning the provision of conflict of interest. As a result of the vote, the Committee on Legal Issues with 14 votes for the European Structural and Investment Funds, without the opposition and 5 votes for the abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement to the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act, No 054-01-10, submitted by the MPs Ivelina Vassileva and Evgenia Angelova on 12 February 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u85	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ilieva. That concludes the committee reports. On behalf of the importers? Here you are, Mrs. Angelova, to present the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, colleagues! The proposed changes to this bill are in several directions. The first heading of the first and most important in this bill is related to the electronic communication of administrative acts. At present, all administrative proceedings are carried out in the system of ISUN. However, the communication of electronic administrative acts is not carried out in that system, is carried out in another order which makes it difficult for users. What we are actually introducing is the communication of administrative acts to be also in the ISU system. The time of notification of the administrative act is, of course, essential because, by virtue of the Administrative Procedure Code, the time limit for its challenge and, accordingly, the assessment of the admissibility of any specific complaint is beginning to run. The proposed change will overcome the already existing contradiction in the caselaw and thus prevent any hesitation in the administrative practice of the managing authorities. The other proposal set out in this bill is the uniformisation of the current amount of the proportional state fee, which is set out in art. 27, para. 6 of the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act. It has been set at 1%, but since October in the Administrative Procedure Code this state fee for the cassation proceedings is 0.8%, so we are doing a uniformity of the fee here. Unification in law enforcement is also proposed in respect of all acts issued by the managing authorities in administrative proceedings governed by the European Structural and Investment Funds Fund Fund Management Act, with the same specific provisions relevant to the other explicitly regulated administrative acts valid for the refusal of verification. In addition, a purely technical amendment. This is an amendment relating to the adjustment of the reference to a conflict of interest provision in accordance with a newly adopted European Union Regulation. Of course, we believe that the adoption of these proposed texts will help to avoid a contradiction in law enforcement.. There is no financial burden, there is no financial element, purely organizational and technical. Thank you for your attention. I'm counting on the bill to be supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u87	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. I'm opening the debate on the bill. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act, No 054-01-10, submitted by Ivelina Vasilova Vasileva and Evgenia Danylova Angelova on 12 February 2020. They voted 104 MPs: for 104, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Congratulations to the importers. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE RECEIVED AND ARGUED FORES OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. The first report belongs to the Defence Committee. Here you are, Mr. Popov, to present it. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u88	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Request procedure for admission to the hall of the Deputy Minister of Defence Mr. Atanas Zaprianov and Deputy Chief of Defence Vice Admiral Emil Evtimov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u89	Please vote on the tolerance procedure. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. Please invite the guests. Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe The Defence Committee on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 002-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 February 2020. At a meeting held on 27 February 2020, the Defence Committee examined the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Defence Act and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria for the first vote. In the meeting of the Ministry of Defence participated: Deputy Minister Atanas Zapreyanov, Deputy Chief of Defence Vice Admiral Emil Evtimov, Permanent Secretary Anton Lastardzhiev, Director of the Department of Legal Activities. The Chairman of the Defence Commission Konstantin Popov pointed out that the bill was tabled on the basis of art. 87, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. By order of the President of the National Assembly, he is assigned to the Defence Committee and two other committees, leading the Defence Committee. Greet the Ministry of Defence for the efforts made for the people who are the main capital in building defence capabilities. He expressed his opinion that careful analysis should be carried out and that all issues should be clarified. For example, the introduction of a term for one position in other armies is done at the average level where the base is wider. This helps to gain experience and improve the qualification of servicemen before taking up top positions. It underlined that it is important to develop a system of principles when deciding on the implementation of this measure and to extend the age limit in order to avoid subjectivism. It is also necessary to send a positive message that the changes are in the interests of the military and the armed forces. The bill was presented on behalf of the importers: Deputy Minister Atanas Zapreyanov, who stressed that the main purpose of the changes is to further reduce the non-completion of the armed forces, for which it is proposed an increase of three years at the limit age for military service for the servicemen who have not exercised their right to pension but for the posts for which habilitation is required by five years. It is also proposed to create a legal opportunity to increase the age limit to three years of servicemen who have exercised the right to a pension that the armed forces need, by decision of the Minister of Defence following a motion under command; it is also proposed to regulate the age of acceptance of military service to 40 years for all categories of servicemen. The bill establishes a term of office for servicemen with senior officer titles and military titles, who have held a position for more than 4 years and refuse to be reassigned to their proposed equal or higher position for a period of one year. The MPs Kolyo Milev and Tasco Ermenkov generally welcomed the efforts to overcome the neocomplect. They asked questions about the proposed amendment to the Military Intelligence Act. It has been pointed out that there are issues that need to be clarified, and there has been a concern of opposition between the servicemen. People's representative Milen Mihov expressed strong support for the changes with which after the first good results in overcoming non-completion personnel, the Ministry of Defence also took further decisive steps and committed itself to solving serious challenges. The principle of rotation is good, and after evaluation of the results in the Ministry of Defence, it can also be considered in other departments. National Representative Valentin Radev congratulated the Ministry of Defence on the bold proposals. Recommended to have synchronization in such changes with other departments in the sector. Asked to clarify and explain how retirement age and the proposed age limit and how a five-year increase was justified for the habilitated persons. It considers that § 6 clearly requires measures to minimise subjectivism when deciding to extend the age limit. He also stressed that officers should not feel morally guilty about exercising their legal right to a pension. National Representative Hristo Gazhev pointed out that with another proposal for amendment and supplement of the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria aims to keep the people in service. It is important what the effectiveness of the measure will be, as well as to increase the interest of the entrance in order for more young people to act. People's representative Nikolay Tsonkov expressed concern that the proposed changes could cause insecurity and the tide of servicemen. He expressed doubts that increasing the age limit for military service could lead to proposals to change the category of servicemen's work. Asked: why not wait for the completion of the Strategic Defence Review and then adopt measures, including amendments to the Law? People's representative Simeon Simeonov stressed that we should not oppose the servicemen who exercised and did not exercise the right to a pension, but it is important to take measures to calm down and be motivated to continue to serve. He pointed out that the introduction of a term of office for servicemen with senior officer titles and with a military rank of "Colonel" should be very well refined. He raised the question of making a forecast for the personnel development of the colonels and generals. In response to the questions asked, Deputy Minister Zapreyanov clarified that the term of office would not be mandatory. The measure is proposed at the request of the military command and now the most important thing is to solve the problem with the generals and Colonels. Applying it in more ranks raises a number of social issues when moving the servicemen and their families. The amendment and the Appendix to the Military Intelligence Act is imposed because, according to the current text of the Law, the Director of the Service can be a military officer with a senior military rank, not explicitly stating that he is part of the senior command staff. This text also defines the type of relationship if a civilian director of the service is proposed, and in both cases will be proposed by the Minister of Defence and the government and by a decree of the President. It was categorically underlined that the Ministry of Defence will not propose changes to art. 69 of the Social Security Code, which defines the regime for the retirement of servicemen. Everyone will have a choice, once they have covered the requirements for years and ages, to decide whether to retire. The changes are now being undertaken in order to preserve servicemen who are at their age this year and further measures will be proposed after the Strategic Review to increase the motivation and personnel development of the servicemen. According to Deputy Chief of Defence Vice Admiral Emil Eftimov, the changes are necessary, the servicemen are familiar with them and are convinced that they have a choice. Motivation and peace in the army are preserved. The Permanent Secretary of Defence Anton Lastardzhiev pointed out that the proposed measures are complex and are not revoked, but rights are granted to the servicemen. Make it clear that a forecast for personnel development is made for all who graduate from General Staff Academy. The Chairman of the Defence Commission Konstantin Popov informed that he had requested and received positive opinions in support of the Commission's Law on Countering Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property and the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. In the subsequent vote with 12 votes, the Defence Committee adopted the following opinion: it proposed to the National Assembly to support a first vote Draft amending and supplementing the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 002-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 February 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u91	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee has the floor, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 002-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 February 2020. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 26 February 2020, discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. The meeting was attended by Lieutenant General Atanas Zapreyanov, Deputy Minister of Defence, Stancho Kaikov, Director of Human Resources Management at the Ministry of Defence and other experts from the same ministry. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Atanas Zaprianov. The aim of the bill is to reduce and overcome the non-completion of the posts for military personnel by the armed forces. The aim of the Bill will be achieved by: increasing by three years the age limit for military service under art. 160, para. 1 and 2 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for the servicemen who have not exercised their right to a pension but for the positions for which habilitation is required under art. 160, para. 3 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria and the servicemen who have not exercised their right to a five-year pension; an opportunity to increase the age of up to three years of the servicemen exercising the right to a pension which the armed forces need, by decision of the Minister of Defence, respectively following a proposal under command; a regulation of the age for the acceptance of a military service of 40 years for all categories of servicemen; the introduction of a mandate for the post of servicemen with senior officer's duties and a military position of a member (skilled I rank) who have held office for more than 4 years and have refused to be reassigned to their proposed equal or higher position within the same or higher level of duty for a period of one year. Since 2015, efforts have been made to reduce the neocomplect by servicemen. A number of measures have been implemented which have led to a slowdown in the rate of increase of the non-completion by servicemen, namely: in 2015 with the amendments to the Code of Social Security, it is possible for the servicemen to exercise their right of retirement and remain in military service by establishing conditions for the detention of military service personnel and ensuring stability in the armed forces; in 2016 with the changes in the Defence and Armed Forces Act in the Republic of Bulgaria, the maximum age by 3 years is increased to the sergeants, seniors, officers and junior officers, by 1 year to the officers with military rank of majors (skilled III rank) and In the following years, measures have also been adopted by 2020 in this direction. The efforts made to deal with the non-completion have limited positive impacts. In essence, despite the positive results of the changes to the Social Security Code since 2015, two groups of soldiers were created in the armed forces. The first group includes those who, at this time, have exercised their right to a pension and have continued to serve about 1500 people. The second group are those soldiers who, although they were able to exercise their right to retirement, did not exercise it. The leading motive for them is that there is no other army in NATO and the European Union in which retired soldiers continue to serve. On this basis, the Ministry of Defence takes into account a certain complexity in the relations between servicemen with an exercised right and those without the right to pension under the Social Security Code. In the foreseeable future, this could have a negative impact on the behaviour and actions of the servicemen in terms of their service. The increase in the ceiling of pensions from 1 July 2019 to 1200 BGN, as well as the number of servicemen exercising pension rights by the end of 2018 leads to an increase in the cost of paying pensions. Deficit on the budget of the Fund "Pensions for the persons under art. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid granted by the Region is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, any revenue may give rise to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation. lv. for 2020, an increase in the number of servicemen exercising their pension rights until 2029 is possible, regardless of the additional condition introduced from 1 January 2016 to increase the age for each subsequent calendar year by 2 months until the age of 55, respectively, up to 45 years for the persons of the flight crew, paratroopers, crews of the submarine vessels and diving crew, which will lead to an additional deficit in the budget of the Fund. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. According to the document adopted by the International Secretariat of NATO, NATO's Defence Expenditure Defining..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The increase in the number of retired servicemen, as well as the inclusion of pension payments, will result in a significant increase in the percentage of personnel resources from common defence costs without affecting the capabilities of the armed forces. To implement the National Defence Plan, 2% of the gross domestic product of the Republic of Bulgaria by 2024, 60% of the defence costs should be for personnel, 20% for current maintenance, and 20 per cent for capital expenditure, with the emphasis being the acquisition of new arms and equipment. The aim of the Ministry of Defence is in 2024 to achieve this ratio, which will correspond to the Program for the Development of the Defence capabilities of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria by 2020, the Plan for the Development of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria 2020 and the Programme for the Management of the Government for the period 2017 - 2021. The proposed bill also amends the Military Intelligence Act with a view to clarifying the provision of art. 24, para. 3. According to the current version of art. 24, para. 3 Director of the service can be a military officer with a high military rank, not specifically stated that he is part of the senior command staff. The other option is to be a civilian employee, but the nature of his relationship is not specified. This requires bringing it into line with the provision of art. 136 of the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria and the explicit clarification, if it is designated as a civil servant, that the Director will have all the rights of employment except those which contradict or are incompatible with his legal position by analogy with art. 19a, para. 1 of the Administration Act. A partial preliminary assessment of the impact of the Bill has been applied to the Bill. In addition, a Report on the compliance of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of the Council of Europe and with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights under art. 28, para. 3 of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the The opinion of the Ministry of Justice is that the proposed bill does not create any legal prerequisites for conflicting with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. The discussion was attended by the MPs Georgi Gokov, Kalin Popovski, Vessela Lecheva, Violeta Jeleva, Hassan Ademov and Nadia Klisurska. Most of the MPs expressed a position that the bill has been rushed and will not reduce the neocomplect in the Bulgarian Army. It is clear that the proposed measures aim to overcome the deficits in the army's composition, but the proposed measures will affect a small group of servicemen and will lead to opposition from different groups. The measure aimed at reducing the differences between the officers who work is controversial, receiving a pension and a salary and those who work only on salary. The measure by which the age for joining the army increases to 40 years is also controversial, since it does not provide any career development for soldiers and sergeants. Opinions were also made that the Bill makes normal and reasonable proposals and with them the Bulgarian army will acquire a profile of the NATO army. After the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 8 votes for the vote, without the opposition and 8 votes for abstention, the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee adopted the following opinion: it proposes that the National Assembly should not support the first vote Draft amending and supplementing the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 002-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 February 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u93	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications "You have the floor to present the report, dear Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u94	Dear Mr. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 002-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 February 2020. At a meeting held on 20 February 2020, the Commission for the Control of the Services examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 002ő-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 February 2020. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Defence and Commander Ivo Haskeyev, Deputy Director of the Military Information Service. The bill in its part concerning the amendment of the Military Intelligence Act and the reasons for its submission were presented by the representatives of the Ministry of Defence. The proposed bill makes an amendment to the Military Intelligence Act with a view to clarifying the provision of art. 24, para. 3. According to the current version of the provision, the Director of the Office may be a senior military serviceman, not explicitly stating that he is part of the senior command staff, and as regards the possibility that the Director may be a civil servant, the type of his relationship is not specified. This requires the alignment of the norm according to the provision of art. 136 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria and the designation of rights under the employment relationship as a director who is a civil servant. In the course of the discussion the President of the Commission Mr. Lazarov made the clarification with the representatives of the Ministry of Defence that the proposed amendment of the draft law is editorial and aims to refine the existing text by making it clear for its practical implementation. Following the vote, the Commission, with 6 votes for the Council, with no objection, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Defence Act and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 002019, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 February 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u95	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Milev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u96	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Minister, Mr. Vice Admiral! The parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria is again saying that the mechanical approach used in the last 10 years to solve the problem of the neocomplect in the army will not significantly change things. The increase in retirement age and the age of admission of soldiers will increase these dangerous consequences, which are expressed in the following. First of all, the aging of the army will become an irreversible process and will require subsequently severe solutions, new changes in the plan for the development of the armed forces by 2032, which will be taken negatively by the servicemen and society as a whole. Other solutions are needed that are not proposed in the Bill. Secondly, the contradictions between young and old will be deepened between people in high positions who have received the right to pension and those who have increased the age of retirement. The lost hope of development will continue to leave the army and the incompletion will increase. Thirdly, it violates the basic rule that everyone in the army in individual collectives is equal before the law and enjoys the same rights. The army is a single collective in which groups will form, to which the Law will have different attitudes, requirements and rights. In fourth place, this mechanical approach is already exhausting its capabilities. Because no other solutions are being proposed, we are now in a hurry to accept it so that it does not come to a new plan for the development of the armed forces and the army temporarily remain calm and wait and complete the launched strategic defence review, which will not change anything again. The changes contradict the meaning of military service, which is a service for the benefit of the state. The changes also have a purely humanitarian nature, which does not fit into the concept of military service. The changes also violate the rules imposed by GERB and partners in the previous cabinet of Boyko Borisov Today, with this Bill, they are once again being violated when you accepted the opportunity to serve in the army and as a pensioner, which is unacceptable, and now, for the second time, when the duration of military service is greater than the age limit for service in the reserve and in the reserve. The right approach is when all laws on power services are adopted to be adopted in a package in order not to receive distortions from the general rule. We expect not only us, but also society to do the same, so that endless changes in all laws on power structures will not be made. But that didn't work out. We must now adopt, in a piece, every law for the reserves of the armed forces, for the Ministry of Interior, for the State Agency, for the Service of the Military Police, for the Service of Military Information, for the National Security Service and so on. Perhaps that is also the goal in order to be able to apply different approaches. We understand that there is a problem with the assembly of the armed forces with personnel and fulfilling the accepted responsibilities for achieving defence capabilities. And that's why this bill is important. Yes, we responsibly state that we do not want to prevent attempts to solve the problems of the army, although with a partial refusal from our belief that this is not the way. But we want it to meet with clear rules and criteria after the proposals and changes made so that there are no privileged and undervalued, benefiting and damaged. The parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria will abstain from the adoption of the proposed changes in the first vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u97	Thank you, dear Mr. Milev. Are there any lines? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Mihov, you're making a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u98	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! This bill deals with an important issue of age, service and leaving the armed forces. It has been mentioned here that the Strategic Defense Review is ongoing. Even the Commission pointed out the idea that it should end, see what is in it and then take action. In fact, this law shows another way of thinking and acting, which is better. It was clearly expressed by the representatives of the Ministry of Defence that the changes are due to this strategic review and they are necessary. They are not necessary, it is important to emphasise, for this mandate, for this government and for this Ministry of Defence, they are necessary for the state of the armed forces in a long term. The data presented to us shows that the next two years will be relatively calm, if we have to say so, in the movement in the armed forces of incoming and leaving on the natural path of their retirement or reaching an age limit. But in two years, the number of leaving will increase sharply. And this, I stress, is the result of those experiments that were done in defence, those social experiments that were done with the Bulgarian servicemen in the previous years, including the premature cancellation of the military service. There will be talk here perhaps reproaches that we will almost make an army of pensioners or old men. Only I remember a nice Soviet movie that only old men go to fight. This is not an argument in favour of this criticism, but it is an argument that we seriously need to open up the debate on military reform, on a reform that some countries in Europe, in the European Union and in NATO have undertaken. Once again, we bring up the issue of a mixed type of armed forces and the restoration of military service. As far as the specific dimensions of the changes are concerned, I would like to focus on an extremely good proposal to increase the age limit of the habilitated servicemen, and these are, to put it plainly and briefly, lecturers at military schools, military universities and the Military Academy. There is a clear disproportion between lecturers at civil universities who retire at 65 years of age and those in specialized military universities. It is a cost, an unforgivable cost of a huge resource, of prepared personnel for the need of defence, for the need of our military education system. We of the United Patriarchs will strongly support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u99	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. Are there any lines? I can't see. [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] It doesn't have to be exactly three minutes, Mr. Ademov. You can come if you want. We will interrupt the work of the National Assembly later.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the House, honored guests! In the motives of this brief bill, its objectives are recorded. The objectives are two: reducing and overcoming the lack of the positions of the armed forces. As for the reduction, the motives and texts give some answer, not so satisfactory, but some answer that this 5,000-servicemen's failure will be reduced. But to overcome the non-completion, it is obvious that this Bill has no claim to resolve this issue. Before we look at the proposals that are being made in this bill, I want to distinguish between two concepts because I just heard things that do not comply with legal texts. First of all, the Social Security Code regulates the possibilities for acquiring the rights of servicemen. And these rights are as follows: age of this year - 53 years and 6 months, which increases by two months to 2029, and insurance service in the system of the sector - Security - 27 years or 2/3 years - 18 years. This is the regulation on the acquisition of pension rights. Here, in the bill, these texts do not change............................................................................................ What is changing is the so-called age limit for taking office in the armed forces system. And now let's see in the specific texts what is proposed? Two groups of measures: one group at the entrance, the other group at the exit of the system. These measures, which are at the entrance, are related to increasing the age for entering the structures of the Bulgarian Army at the age of 40. This measure at first glance seems tempting, but tell me to the one 40 years old or 35 years old what will be his incentive to enter the ranks of the Bulgarian Army, because he will not be able to take advantage of the opportunities for early retirement. He won't be able to, because if he's a soldier, if he's a soldier and he's 40 years old, his age limit will be 49 years old. It is true that he enters into a short-term contract for three years; it is true that he has the opportunity for career development. He may become a Petty Officer, he may become some other type of management frame, but he has no incentive to enter the defense and armed forces system at that age. Moreover, in 2029 the age for entitlement to pension will be 55 years. So even if he served 15 years, he couldn't get an early retirement pension, that motivation for him wasn't there. All we have to do is look for other motives. What are the other motives? There's no way you can get people 30, 35, 40 years old to join the army unless they use the defense system and the armed forces as a workplace, a temporary workplace. Do you understand what we're talking about? I understand the efforts and support them to seek solutions in the direction of the army being equipped, but at 40 years of age, or 38, or 35 years of age, to join the army, provided that in no way can you take advantage of and partly of the social package that exists in the legislation in force, it is not a serious enough measure for me. What is available with the other texts? A three-year increase is proposed to take up office for those who have not exercised their right to a pension, a three-year increase. Let us note that now the age for taking office is between 46 and 62 years in total for the entire structure. A five-year increase is proposed. This is probably the best measure of the academic staff "those who take an academic position in order not to escape the system of defence and the armed forces, not to go to the other vibes that are attractive. It is also proposed that a measure which is not so indisputable, I would call it: those who have acquired the right to a command pension to be able to occupy in the register of vacant jobs, to be able to occupy the respective posts. Yeah, but this command line is by criteria that will be in the rules. And here is the big problem: if one who is not satisfied with his career growth, the Minister of Defence has not appointed him to the next career position, complains in the first administrative court and because the criteria are in the Rules and are not listed in the Law, this decision will fall. Then why don't you write down the criteria? Are you worried about something? I don't think there's any argument in worrying. List the criteria, which is easier, you have the opportunity to do it at second reading. The next good measure is the introduction of a mandate to hold a post for soldiers of higher military rank who held a post for more than 4 years. This is probably a measure that is related to both career growth and to helping younger servicemen grow in their careers. I stress that this is a measure in the right direction. Let's go back a little bit in time. A moment ago, it was said that political decisions have been made. Prof. Mihov I think he said it, political decisions have been made that have messed things up in this area. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Social Security Code has been amended, you are given the opportunity to remain in the service. You get a salary and a pension. Okay, but two groups are being created now.. one group is of those who have the right to pay and pension, the others who have the right to pay.. now we offer this. This is a huge clash between two groups of soldiers who have to choose between what? See what this is about. [[Replications from OP.]] Wait a minute and you'll have an opportunity for lines. So the one who is a serviceman and remains a soldier fulfilled the terms of the Social Security Code, fulfilled the conditions for retirement, he has two options. One option is not to retire and remain only on salary for the next three years as you give him the opportunity to hold a position for three years. His other option is to retire and receive, if he meets all the conditions, twenty gross wages from the social package. Up to twenty gross wages, I say... [[Reply from OP.]] Please, I know the Defense and Armed Forces Act well. I am not for a reason repeating, if it meets the conditions for obtaining these twenty gross salaries, I am not talking about all, I am only talking about those who are eligible, if it satisfies the conditions, gets twenty gross salaries, it comes out on the labour market with twenty gross wages, with the right to pay and pension against the other option to remain in the defence system and the armed forces only on salary. I understand the honour of the pagon may remain, it may remain for moral reasons, but civil logic shows a completely different.... and the behavior of the servicemen shows otherwise. Of the 2500 who had the right to retire, they retired 1500, nine hundred and several remained for the honour of the Pagon. But the remaining 1500, given that the maximum amount of the pension is increasing and will increase, then the attractive behavior will be 53 years old to go outside, to the free labour market, to get both a salary and a pension, and to have received these paychecks, whether they are 20 or 10 or as many as they are, that is another topic. That's the worry I'm allowing myself to say. Next, concern is about budgets. According to NATO standards, the ratio of personnel costs, current maintenance costs and capital expenditures should be 60-20-20. Do you know how much it is in Bulgaria at the moment 78%. This is what General Zaprianov said in the Commission, I can show you from the shorthand, 78% are for staff. What does that mean? This means that in the coming years we cannot offer attractive wage increases because this ratio is failing. And that is why we are going to increase the age of office so that we can compensate for this balance and wait for 2029 when the conditions under the Social Security Code will be 55 years, and for the flight and diving staff, those working underwater and in the sky, for them is 45 years. So these people will retire at this age if they meet 55 and 45 years, but 2029. Until then we have to rely on the measures we are proposing now. Moreover, the cost of pensions on a proposal, according to the Court of Auditors' assessment of NATO standards, is part of the cost of personnel. And there about 310 million are the costs that are paid for pensions, and 270 million are insurance contributions. If we look at the budget of state social security under art. 69 in the security sector. The situation is even more disturbing there. Because 60.4% is the insurance contribution paid by the state budget at the expense of taxes for the sector "Secretary" 60.4%, compared to 19.5% for all other Bulgarian citizens who are third category, 60.4% is not linked between revenues and expenses " 147 million." 400,000. lv. are for 2020. That is, insurance contributions, even though they are 60%, cannot be linked to the costs incurred in this system. These are the worrying things, and that is why this proposal is, otherwise there is no way to solve the issue of this ratio. And the last thing I want to finish with. In recognition of the importers, these proposals will result in a slowdown in the pace of incompleteness of the Bulgarian Army, but will not be resolved even in the next 10 years. Because last year they retired, they left the army, one unit retired, another part didn't, 811 people. A thousand and a hundred are the ones who joined the army, which means there's a positive trend and it's 300 people. If this trend continues in the coming years, we have to wait nearly 20 years to fulfill this five thousand-dollar set. Therefore, our parliamentary group will abstain, not because we deny the measures that are being adopted, but because we believe that they will not work.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u101	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. A line?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u102	That's a very short line. I understand the opposition is in a hurry for the break. [[Noise and lines from DPS and BSP for Bulgaria.]] Dear Professor Ademov, I just want to add something to what you said, as a slight adjustment that soldiers can't retire early, because within 28 years, if they have received, they receive a first category, they serve 18, but they can't benefit from the current arrangement until now. And another clarification "You may have accidentally made a mistake that the defence budget consists of the budget of the Ministry of Defence and the funds in the central budget. The Ministry's budget is 78%, but the entire defence budget is 55% to date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u103	Thank you, dear Mr. Vangelov. I can't see another line. A hole, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thanks for the line, mate. First, I asked Mr. President to make the speeches after the break, because there is no time and we never said we were in a hurry to rest, so this note wasn't quite correct, but this is the smaller problem. The more important issue is the Court of Auditors. Based on the estimates she made for the budgets, the ratio of 60 to 20 to 20 is that pension expenditure is included in the costs within those 60%. That's what I said. The costs of the pensions, the 310 million, come as the costs of the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces, and then these 78%, for which General Zaprianov, I did not come up with this number, I admit that I did not check it, but at the Commission's meeting this number was said. But that's the smaller problem. The bigger problem is whether these measures will lead to a solution to the general problem of defence assembly. That's the more important question. The ratio of some measure will sort it out somehow. The more important question is: how are we going to motivate people, on the one hand, to stay on salary and, on the other hand, how are we going to motivate them if we are not going to be able to increase relations with this ratio, and wages, unfortunately I say this, but the question is how are we going to motivate them to remain in the Bulgarian Army?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u105	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. Colleagues, I'm going to introduce you to a message before we stop working. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, the Northern lobby will mark the World Month for Information on Endometriosis. The event is organized by the Endometrics Foundation and health insurance. Endometrics is a socially significant disease that affects the reproductive abilities of the woman and affects the demographic characteristics of the country. Between 30 and 50% of women with reproductive problems have endocrine disease. All MPs are invited to the event. Time out for thirty minutes. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u106	I will ask the Quaestors to invite the Members of the National Assembly to the plenary, because I will now ask: "Is there any speeches? show no speeches, we will close the debate, then there will come MPs who will want to speak and call on us to break the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Ermenkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u107	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As you have already seen, the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria will refrain from voting and adopting this bill. Much of the motives that were expressed were said by Mr. Kolyo Milev and Mr. Hassan Ademov. I just want to add something that I think is extremely important. This is that the problem of the Necomplect in the Bulgarian Army cannot be solved with measures that are related, conditionally speaking, with the obstruction of the system from above and not by creating a more attractive entry of this system. This isn't just about raising wages. The issue is much more complex and with much more social measures that need to be taken in order to raise the status of the serviceman so that this service can become attractive to young people and be proud when they say: "I serve the country!" These include problems that are related not only to pay, but also problems that are related to the family of the serviceman and whether when moving from one garrison to another garrison to have rotation, as it is proposed, to solve the problem with his wife, his children, whether he has a place to go to school, whether she has a place to work, whether she has a place to live and so on, all issues related to the so-called social package. In this regard, it seems to me that the proposed bill, instead of giving a solution, creates more problems and issues that arise, and will hardly be able to achieve the objectives that are set before it, namely limiting the number of incompletions in the army. It still seems to me that this is not the way, and once again I say about much of the arguments that Mr. Ademov and Mr. Milev shared, I join them. I would like to take account of transitional and final provisions, so that the parliamentary group of GERB and some other colleagues here is not surprised. Between first and second readings, I will again make a proposal for the failure of a civilian to be head of the service. I know you won't accept it, but I will put your conscience to the test one more time, how and how you will vote, at least the military, who know what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u108	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Are there any lines? You have the floor, Mr. Vangelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The main objective of the proposed bill for amendment and supplement of the Defence and Armed Forces Act is to reduce or overcome the non-completion! All the Members we comment on should focus on the main objective of this bill. He offers us an increase of three years at the age of military service only for those soldiers who have not exercised their pension rights. I will focus on the soldiers, as the incompetence there is the greatest. For soldiers from 46 to 49 years old, for Petty Officers, Officers and Junior Officers from 55 to 58 years old, and so to the highest rankes General, Admiral from 62 to 65 years old. We're talking about the age limit for military service. To acquire the right to pension under art. 69 of the Social Security Code, the servicemen had to fulfil three conditions: the minimum age is 53 years and six months by 1 January 2020, their total insurance service to be 27 years and from these 27 years to 18 years to be in active military service. Those who have been appointed to the Law for up to 28 years for admission into the army and 46 years for age provided only the third indicator of the Code of Social Security for the soldiers, i.e. 18 years, served in the army. Thus, in order to achieve early retirement, they had to meet the other two requirements for the age of 53.6 years and for a general insurance service of 27 years. The current increase, which is proposed to raise by three years of age and to raise the age of the army to 40 years, extends precisely the range of soldiers. I'm talking about soldiers who can take advantage of the possibility of early retirement, of course, not all of them, but depending on how old he joined the army. The other change envisions a five-year increase in the age limit for posts requiring habilitation if the servicemen have not exercised their pension rights. This is also appreciated as positive, positive, because the so far very early retirement of those people who have high professional qualities and who are university staff, deprived the defense system in their early retirement so far by valuable professionals and at times actually turned defence into a sort of donor of academic staff for civil servants. It is very important to emphasise that the new bill does not restrict the rights and privileges of the servicemen who have exercised their pension rights. They continue to serve under conditions under which they have benefited from this right. The three-year extension applies to all servicemen who have not exercised their pension rights. These are not only those who have had the right, but have not taken advantage of it, but also all those who have not yet acquired the right to a pension at all. It seems important to me to say that those who have not benefited from pension rights have been given an opportunity to choose whether to retire and serve until the age of regulation or not to retire and serve for three more years. Thus, the conclusion is that the proposed provision of § 4 of the Bill does not create restrictions on the rights of servicemen, but, on the contrary, on a huge circle of them, almost 90%, are increasing. Two words I will just say about the introduction of mandate, some call it rotation, and I will end with my speech. Here it is most important to understand that rotation is intended for the above levels mainly in the army. In this case, it is an option and not a mandatory rotation. It will not cover the average levels, since such an element was in the discussions outside the Chamber, it will not cover the average levels as it is the social cost of rotation that would then be impossible for the army, for the budget. In addition, it is important to emphasise that the rotation itself is carried out at the request of the military command and not at the suggestion of the Minister of Defence, whoever it is. There are other proposals for changes. I have decided to focus on these, not because of anything else, but because they do cover a large number of servicemen. We appreciate the proposed bill as necessary, as a bill that really works in the direction of solving the problem of the non-completion. But naturally, in our opinion, it would be best as a final stage of the problem of non-completion, and I will say nothing new if there is a consensus in Parliament and in the state, introducing a set military service. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u110	Thank you, Mr. Vangelov. Are there any lines? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Minister, Mr. Deputy Chief of Defense! In the Commission, looking at this bill last week, it became clear a very important thing that I would like to start my speech with. For the last three years, since this Parliament was drawn up and operated.. The forty-fourth National Assembly, 10 amendments have been made to the Defence and Armed Forces Act so far. I'll widen the subject. If we look at this issue in retrospect, what changes have been made to the Defence and Armed Forces Act and the Social Security Code since 2010, you will see that, in fact, in the last 10 years with the changes we have been making, we are not creating stability and security for those serving in this system. On the contrary, with the changes, especially in the last 4 years, we have generated uncertainty, and we expect the defence system to serve society to ensure statehood, to guarantee security. With the changes we make and the imitation of the changes to the Defence and Armed Forces Act, we do not motivate the servicemen. Today we are talking about increasing the age limit of the servicemen. I would like to focus on a major change that is being made, namely to accept servicemen within 40 years. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that we have this production in force in the current law, but there is something else on the record here. We are making a distinction between soldiers, between candidate officers and officers. Then here we ask ourselves: why do we have to make such imitations of changes when, and now, in practice, the recording is almost the same? As far as I can tell from the analysis that was done at the Ministry of Defense, there are hardly any candidates who are 35 years old, 36 years old, and not to mention 40. I won't open the subject what does it mean to accept a 40-year-old soldier? What thinking does a young man in his 40's have, what thinking does a young man in his 20s or 25s have, because this, by the way, also has a bearing on it? I will not talk about physical training and physical condition, but with the changes we are making, especially for the age limit, we are creating tensions between the already formed groups of servicemen who have exercised their pension rights and those who have not exercised their pension rights, and especially when we increase the age limit of servicemen who have not exercised their pension rights, are we creating tensions in the system at a lower level? Because, speaking to servicemen, they disagree with all the changes we are now discussing in this Chamber. One more thing that seems important to me, and you should all hear it here and, of course, society. For three years since the beginning of the Forty-fourth National Assembly, we from BSP for Bulgaria have repeatedly insisted on the launch of the Strategic Defence Review. Finally, after two years, our demands have been heard, our views that we should have a thorough and thorough analysis of the entire sector, by the way, and not just of defence. We put this when we talked about the modernization of the Bulgarian Army to see where the deficits really are, not the problems that arise, to try to solve them on the move, and with imitation of actions and solutions. We are about to see the final results of the strategic review carried out next year or at the end of this year. Then logically we should wait for the implementation of the Strategic Review, the full, overall analysis of the results and on this basis, when we see all the problems, and not just this problem, which we all know about the lack of the Bulgarian Army, to take legal changes and other types of solutions that are required. Another thing that is important and I would like to share it here when we talk about overcoming the non-completion in the Bulgarian Army.. how do we solve this main problem of the defence system? Why not think about changing the approach to solving the problem in another direction? I say that these solutions that are being proposed are not working, not to mention that they can lead to a tide from this system, which is currently in a very fragile state. I therefore believe that we should pay more attention to the conditions under which the servicemen in this system serve and work, pay attention to the social benefits that have been taken over in recent years, and then have a conversation about solving the biggest problem in the Bulgarian Army, which is related to the lack of personnel. Here I recall, it has already been said, over 5,000 people lack of personnel. Last but not least, an argument that is also important, talking about the changes we make. With them, in fact, another question arises: do we preserve and increase the attractiveness of the Bulgarian army, do we increase the authority of the Bulgarian military or on the contrary? Here remains the question of early retirement, remains the question whether servicemen should be a first category given all these changes that have been made in recent years? The following comes to say that, in fact, with such changes, we are not here to solve the problems of the Bulgarian Army, on the contrary to preserving the status quo, but this is not the solution of the most important problem, such as the shortage of personnel. That is why we from BSP for Bulgaria will not support the proposed bill for amendment and supplement of the Defence and Armed Forces Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u112	Thank you, Mr. Tsonkov. Are there any lines? You have the floor for a line, Mr. Gajev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u113	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsonkov, my line is in several respects because, first of all, we have to learn chronology again. After the First Defence Review in 2020, a White Defense Book was created, adopted by the National Assembly. During the government of the BSP then Minister Angel Naydenov wanted to review the entire sector. The review started only on the topic of Defence, which, by the way, was completed at the time of Minister Nenchev with the relevant document, adopted again by the National Assembly. Check it there is 2015, voted by the National Assembly, including the BSP parliamentary group. Logically not because of BSP pressure, as you have tried to explain, but for the simple reason that this is the right thing, the Council of Ministers has decided to conduct the entire review. I have a question here because you said: the systematic withdrawal of the social benefits of the servicemen or rather social compensation is the right expression, I want you to tell me at least one thing? The only thing that has been terminated is the right to purchase apartments, so that the servicemen who act now have a place to live, if God forbid, the service takes them to another area. Otherwise, if this had stayed to this day, it wouldn't have been the Ministry of Defense, but it would have been the Ministry of Apartments. That's why it was canceled. Nothing else has changed. Thirdly, which is very important to say if BSP questions whether the servicemen should be first category, at least for GERB this does not stand on the agenda. Military personnel are first category and will remain retired under the conditions under which they exist at the moment. GERB will not change them as they are now. If BSP wants to make them a third category "GERB" does not want to! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u114	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Is there another line? Second line, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u115	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u116	Consider your time, please. You have 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u117	You said that the non-completion is deepening, which is not true! In the last year, the number of people who joined the army was 20% higher than those who left it. The problem is not that next year, when this government will end, this ministry will have a problem, but that in two years' time, according to the Ministry of Defence, in the next third, fourth and fifth consecutive year, a large number of officers, sergeants and soldiers will emerge from the army. These changes are aimed not at our mandate, but at the next. With this statement, I disagree.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u118	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Third line? Here you are, dear Mr. Manushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u119	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Tsonkov, and at the Commission meeting I promised to make a reply to your speech. Firstly, I would like to inform the National Assembly that we discussed these changes in the Commission for several hours. I can clearly state that the representatives of the Ministry of Defence in the form of the Deputy Minister, the Permanent Secretary, of the Deputy Chief of Defence have been very well argued and I believe that in the Chamber there, the Commission has convinced many of those present about the need for these changes being proposed. A dozen changes have indeed been made in recent years, but the first need you are talking about has been to eliminate early retirement. This was the 20 - 27 - year - old lift, then.. in 2010, a number of officers left. Then to have a minimum age these changes were because in the defence system there was no such requirement. I believe that what is being offered by the Ministry of Defence by the civilian and military leadership is a step in the right direction and will lead, albeit with slow steps, really to overcoming the neocomplect. These changes have another goal, and it is to reduce the desire of officers, senior officers and sergeants to exercise their right to a pension when they acquire it, as the Deputy Minister of Defence quite rightly said that with the introduction of pension expenditure in defence expenditure increases the percentage of defence expenditure and, in fact, nothing goes to the Ministry of Defence..............................what Dr. Ademov also said that this balance of sixty to twenty in twenty can't be achieved in 40 years. Now there was a distinction of 28 for the soldier, the sailor and for the Petty Officer and 40 years was for officers who had graduated from other schools, higher education and needed such specialties. Now they're offering 40 years, and I think opening this scissors underneath will lead to...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u120	Time's up, Mr. Manushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u121	I apologize. This, I think, will contribute to increasing the number of entryees and it will be smaller than those coming out of the army. And I wanted to talk about the Strategic Defense Review, but I guess there wasn't time. Indeed, this year "2020," all the strategic documents that we have adopted before are leaking out, and the Defence Skill Plan and the Armed Forces Development Plan. So this review will enable these documents to be prepared.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u122	Thank you, Mr. Manushev. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u123	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yes, I agree with you, Mr. Manushev, so is all the strategic documents leaking this year. This is a major argument why we had to wait to see the results, the full, overall analysis of the Strategic Review and when we developed the new Defence Capacity Development Programme, the Armed Forces Development Plan, to change the legislative base as well. By the way, the Defence and Armed Forces Act has been changed many times already, that is, the question arises here whether there is no need for a general change in philosophy or a new law that will regulate everything again on the basis of the new strategic review that will end? With regard to what you said about 2013 "2014," I would like to say to Mr. Gajev that at the time we not only initiated, yes, it was not a strategic review of the entire sector, but it was a defence review, which the results were ready for, but did not see the light of day. And it's nice for those working at the Ministry of Defense and the Department of Defense to take a look at the results of the review that was done at the time. They are not a bad starting point to solve some problems that exist in the Bulgarian Army. With regard to social compensation and in general the social rights of the servicemen, Mr. Gajev, I would remind you that a great effect in 2013 and motivation of the servicemen was then the measure by which we raised the money for the food of the servicemen, which, by the way, gave a serious incentive to the servicemen in the system. This is what I meant when we talk about solving the problems with people in defence and with their motivation, stimulating, we should think about this because we have increased by 10% over the last three years the wages of the servicemen, but if we had increased the money for food, then maybe we would have had a much greater effect from the point of view of those working in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u124	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonkov. We continue with the speeches. Is there anyone else who wants to make a statement? Colleagues, I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. Mr. Deputy Minister, there were questions that were asked here, albeit indirectly. Would you like to answer that? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I have listened with interest to the debate. A number of questions were raised. I'll try to give information and answer some of them. The modern personnel policy of all armies has two components: a policy that regulates the entrance and exit. The Ministry of Defence has implemented 25 measures so far, which regulate the entry system, as a result of which the tide trend from the armed forces was terminated and last year we have 300 more people who have come than those who left. In addition, raising the age to 40 years of age is regulating the entrance and giving more people the opportunity to join the army. This right still exists in the Defense and Armed Forces Act. This norm to take officers for certain specific professions, such as lawyers, financiers and others, is 40 years. We have decided this age to extend it to the military staff, as we cannot have statistics on whether there are people over 28 years of age, because we do not accept their documents, but there are many candidate soldiers who come on the Minister's reception day, over 28 years of age. We are convinced that if the servicemen are healthy and can cover the tests, I have given the Commission the data on physical training and endurance tests, they can also take place at an older age of 28 years. With regard to early retirement and incentive of the entry system, this is our proposal not to change the requirement for retirement, the retirement age of 53 years and 6 months to increase to 55 years and not to change the requirement for 27 years of service in the armed forces, or 18 years of first category added to 27 years.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u126	Why wouldn't I change?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u127	Because if that changes, that would have a negative effect on the armed forces. To regulate the output system, what we offer you, we have estimates. This year, if we delay, 316 people will acquire pension rights, next year Over 1200. If we introduce this norm, I have introduced the Commission, over the years, the number of pension holders by 2025 will fall to 200. With regard to the regulation of the exit, giving the servicemen the right to serve for another three years, firstly, flattens us for the average age of maximum age for service in the armed forces in NATO, which is about 60 years old, I think the Bulgarian Ministry of Interior is the same. These three years aren't just made-up like that. We're approaching the NATO armies. It has already been said: there is no other army in NATO or in the European Union where soldiers are retired and continue to carry military service and command armed forces. I won't! We are the only army, and we cannot explain to our allies what our motive is for this. So regulating the exit system will allow us to keep these people by 2025. It's about hundreds, thousands of people. And if the tendency to increase the acceptance of the service is maintained, we can reduce by 2025 to 50% the non-completion of the armed forces. One more thing that's very important. We don't have a problem with the sergeant's staff. The main shortage of our armed forces is soldiers, because with the measures taken, the vast majority of soldiers are encouraged to become sergeants and serve until the age limit for the rank that the sergeants have and exercise their pension rights. If we do one account, we'll see that the norm up to 40 years stimulates some people to join the army and make one or two or three contracts to 49 years. I'm talking about the troops. With regard to the budget, it has been fairly noted, there is an inspection by the Court of Auditors. I think you requested the report and it will be presented to you. The Court of Auditors firmly believes that the cost of the pensions of the servicemen is part of the military spending of the state and Bulgaria until last year was the only country that did not include them. Now we've turned them on. With respect to the ratio: 60:20:20. For last year it is negative, but if we include the one-time payment of the planes for last year, this ratio is definitely changing in the interest of capital expenditure. We are not doing this because last year it is as if we gave a second budget. There's no way with this one-time payment to think this is a trend. As far as rotation is concerned, this is the request of the military command. It's not mandatory. I ask the Members of the National Assembly to pay attention to this. The Bulgarian army is small. We cannot leave and give every colonel rotation for three or four years, because we do not have so many colonial posts, but we cannot let officers refuse to become Brigadier Generals, Major Generals, because they do not want to move from one position to another and from one garrison to another. This is a measure that will only be applied if the military command has given a nomination and the military officer refuses to serve for another year and is released so as not to interfere with the personnel model. The army is a slender frame system. If there is no movement of those on whom we propose to ascend, there is no way to develop their subordinates and junior officers. My appeal to you is: the proposals are good, they are in the interest of our armed forces. The Bulgarian army is an institution in which the Bulgarian people believe and support it. You are representatives of the Bulgarian people. I urge you to support us. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u128	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Minister. Colleagues, we're going to vote. I put to the vote the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 002-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers. Vote 155 MPs: 102 against 1, abstention 52. The motion is accepted. Mr. Mihov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u129	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am making a procedural proposal based on art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly "The deadline for the written proposals for amendment and supplement of the bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria to be reduced to five days.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u130	Thank you. Mr. Ermenkov's counterproposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, you see the speeches we have made and the concerns we have under this law. Therefore, I propose that the period between first and second readings be maximum.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u132	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by the MP Milen Mihov. Vote 150 MPs: 101, against 45, abstention 4. The offer is accepted. We continue with the next item on our agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEDURAL RULES FOR CONDITIONS AND PROPOSAL OF OMBUDSMAN, PRESENTATION, PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND RECOGNITION OF CANDIDATES IN THE COMMISSION ON THE VEROISATION AND RIGHTS OF HUMANS, LIKE THE PROCEDURE FOR THE SELECTION OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. Dear Mr. Velchev, you have the floor to present the Report of the Commission on Religions and Human Rights.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on draft decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing the Ombudsman, presentation, public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Religions and Human Rights and the procedure for election by the National Assembly At the meeting held on 27 February 2020, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights discussed Rules of Procedure for conducting a public procedure under art. 93 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the Terms and Conditions of Offering of Ombudsman, Presentation, Public Disclosure of Documents and Hearing of Candidates in the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Iva Miteva, Director of the Directorate of Employment and Law of the European Union. National representatives Krasimir Velchev, Chavdar Velinov, Stoyan Mirchev, Pavel Shopov, Valentina Naydenova and Evgenia Alexieva took part in the discussion on the Draft Decision on the adoption of the Rules of Procedure for the Election of Ombudsman. It was discussed the possibility provided for in the Law on the Ombudsman for non-profit legal entities to make proposals for the election of an ombudsman. The members of the Commission united around the idea of bringing these proposals into the National Assembly through MPs or parliamentary groups. In this regard, proposals were made for a change in point. 1 Section I of the Draft Decision on the adoption of the Rules of Procedure for the election of the Ombudsman, which the Members of the National Assembly unanimously approved. After the debates held, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights with 15 votes for...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Project! DECISION adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the proposal of the Ombudsman, presentation, public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Religions and Human Rights and the procedure for election by the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 91a, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 8 of the Law on the Ombudsman and Article 8 of the Law on the Ombudsman 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the proposal of the Ombudsman, presentation, public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly: I. Offering of Ombudsman and submission of documents to candidates 1. Proposals for an ombudsman may make MPs, parliamentary groups and non-profit legal entities for public benefit. The proposals shall be submitted by Members of Parliament or by parliamentary groups in writing to the Committee on Religions and Human Rights through the President of the National Assembly within 7 days of the adoption of these rules. 2. The proposals contain reasons to justify the applicant's high moral qualities and experience in the field of human rights. The proposal shall be accompanied by: (a) written consent of the applicant according to the template of Annex 1 to the decision; (b) a detailed CV; (c) certified by the applicant a copy of a diploma for completed higher education; (d) a statement in accordance with the template "Annex 2" to the decision that the applicant is eligible for the election of a Member of the National Assembly under art. 65, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria; (e) documents demonstrating that the applicant has experience in the field of human rights; (f) written consent of the applicant under art. 27, para. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army according to a model, in two copies of Annex 3 to the Decision. 3. The circumstances of art. 15, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on the Ombudsman is established by the administration of the National Assembly. II. Public disclosure of documents 1. The proposals together with the documents attached to them shall be published on the specialized thematic website of the National Assembly no later than 7 days before the hearing. The publication of the proposals and documents shall be carried out in compliance with the Personal Data Protection Act. 2. Non-profit legal entities registered for carrying out a public utility activity no later than three days before the hearing of candidates may submit opinions to the Committee on Religions and Human Rights on the proposed candidates, including issues to be addressed to them. 3. The mass media may send questions to the Committee on Religions and Human Rights to the candidates to be asked. 4. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. 5. The opinions and questions are sent by post to the city of Sofia, Bulgaria. "Knyaz Aleksandar I" No 1, Commission on Religions and Human Rights, or by e-mail: kvpch@parliament.bg. 6. The opinions and questions are published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly, subject to the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. III. Perform a preliminary check under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army 1. Candidates shall be checked for belonging to the bodies referred to in art. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The request for prior verification under art. 27, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army are made by the President of the Commission on Religions and Human Rights. 2. The results of the verification shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly. IV. Hearing of applicants admitted 1. Before listening to the proposed candidates, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights shall verify the documents submitted and whether the candidates meet the requirements for taking up the post. 2. The hearing of the admitted candidates is held in an open meeting of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, which is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. 3. The candidates shall be submitted by the importers of the proposals in alphabetical order of the names of the applicants within 5 minutes. The presentation also includes information on motivation, public reputation, moral qualities and public support for the candidate. 4. The candidate is given the opportunity to supplement data from his professional biography and present his concept of work as an ombudsman in the exhibition within 7 minutes of a candidate. 5. The President of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights shall present in summary the opinions and questions received on Section II, i.e. 2 and 3 up to 2 minutes each. 6. The Members of the National Assembly shall place their questions separately to the candidates in alphabetical order of the names of the candidates........................................................................................................................................................ 7. The applicant's reply to the questions referred under point 1. 5 and 6 at the exhibition in 7 minutes. 8. A full stenographic protocol is drawn up from the hearing, which is published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. 9. The Committee on Religions and Human Rights shall draw up within the meaning of art. 93, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a report from the hearing in which the candidates are represented and submit it to the National Assembly. If several candidates have been heard, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights shall attach to the report a list of candidates who have participated in the hearing alphabetically in their own names. The report shall also be accompanied by a draft decision to select each candidate for ombudsman. 10. The refusal of a candidate to participate in the hearing or its withdrawal from the importer shall not suspend the procedure with regard to other candidates. V. Election of the Ombudsman by the National Assembly 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. 2. The National Assembly shall hear the report of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights in summary. 3. Each candidate shall be represented by the applicant within two minutes. 4. Discussions shall be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 5. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system. If there are several candidates for the Ombudsman, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the names of the candidates unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 6. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who received the most votes is elected. If two or more candidates have received an equal number of votes, a re-vote shall be held between them. 7. Where none of the candidates receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall be held in which the two candidates who have received the most votes for................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 8. If none of the candidates receives the necessary votes in the second vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. 9. When a candidate refuses to participate in the election before voting on his candidacy by the National Assembly and he is the only candidate for office, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. VI. Obligation to declare incompatibility under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 and change the declared circumstances under art. 35, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property 1. Upon completion of the selection procedure under Section V, the elected Ombudsman shall submit a declaration of incompatibility under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property in connection with art. 14 of the Law on the Ombudsman by model, according to Annex 4 to the Decision. 2. In the event of a change in the declared circumstances of the declaration referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1, the customs authorities of the Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the European Union of the other Member States of the European Union of the other Member States of the European Union of the European Union and of the other Member States of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union, of the one part, of the one part, of the other part, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u134	Thank you, dear Mr. Velchev. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u135	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'd like to introduce a small amendment to the Draft Rules. At the place of mass media, please be recorded: mass media, because the use of mass media is quite outdated, first, and, second, under an update, there is also something else that I do not want to be laid down in the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u136	Could you help us find out exactly where this is, text by text.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u137	In one place, there are means of mass gain.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-04.u138	Okay, so I'm going to put it to the vote. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. First, I will put to the vote the editorial amendment proposed by the MP Milko Nedyalkov. They voted 123 MPs: 121, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the draft decision submitted to you together with the annexes which are an integral part of the text of the Decision. They voted 122 MPs: for 122, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted. That's what we're done with today. The next regular plenary session of 9:00 on 5 March 2020 under the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
