ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members. Welcome to the new hall! 211 MPs are registered, there is a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Dear colleagues, according to art. 47 of our Rules I suggest we hear the hymns of the Republic of Bulgaria and of the European Union. Please, let's be straight. [[Everyone's up. The anthems of the Republic of Bulgaria and of the European Union sound.]] Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will introduce you to the National Assembly Work Project for 2 September 2020. Today is the first Wednesday of the month we have no proposals from the parliamentary groups. 1. New discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Underground Treasures, adopted by the National Assembly on 22 July 2020, returned for a new discussion with Decree No 160 of 29 July 2020 of the President of the Republic under art. 101 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. 2. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Election Code. They are: Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs, 17 August 2020; Mustafa Karadayi, Hamid Hamid and Ahmed Ahmedov, 28 August 2020. Point 1 for Thursday, 3 September 2020 3. Termination of the power of the President of the Central Election Commission. Stephka Stoeva, Chairman of the Central Election Commission, resigned on 27 August 2020. Point 2 for Thursday, 3 September 2020 4. Draft decision on personal changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer: Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, item 3rd for Thursday, 3 September 2020. 5. Second vote on the Draft Law on Supplement to the Law on the Judicial Authority "A General Project drawn up by the Committee on Legal Affairs on the basis of the laws adopted at the first vote on 16 July 2020. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 26 June 2020, and 3 July 2020, item 4 for Thursday, 3 September 2020. 6. Draft Law on the ratification of the Voluntary Guarantee Agreement under art. 11 of Council Regulation (EU) 2020/672 SURE European Temporary Support Instrument to mitigate the risks of unemployment in exceptional circumstances due to the outbreak of COVID-19 between the European Commission and the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 30 July 2020, item 1 for Friday, 4 September 2020. 7. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 9 July 2020, item 2 for Friday, 4 September 2020. 8. Parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u2	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u3	Please vote on the proposal for work so made this week. [[(People from BSP for Bulgaria and People's Representative Vecdi Rashidov signal that they have a problem with voting boards. Screams from BSP for Bulgaria.Switching the system. System change.]] Fellow Quaestors, please help fellow MPs. [[Replication from BSP for Bulgaria: "The Quaestors will not fix the work. "]] The registration didn't have that problem. Help Mr. Svilenski, Mr. Stoinev, Mrs. Nino and Mrs. Anastasova, Mr. Bonev, I see Mrs. Vassileva. Cancel this vote because I see that there are colleagues who have failed to vote. Please re-vote. Vote 208 MPs: 140, against 38, abstention 30. The motion is accepted. Procedure Mr. Tzipov. First on the stand is Mr. Tzipov. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal today's statements regarding the opening of the political season to be transmitted on the Bulgarian National Television "BNT 2" and on BNR.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u5	Thank you, Mr. Tzipov. Please vote on Mr. Krasimir Tsipov's procedure. Vote 193 MPs: for 192, there is no abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Dear Mr. President, dear Mrs. Vice President!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u6	Procedure, procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u7	Let me finish my speech address and I'll give you the floor, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u8	It's not like that!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u9	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, honourable journalists and guests! As of today, the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria has fully settled in its new home. This move has been long discussed and difficult to carry out. Purely emotionally for most of us it was a sad breakup with the historic parliament building of 1884. With its beauty, modesty and lack of pompousness. Looking outside this building is anything but modest. However, it has an undeniable advantage that offers far more work area. The scale repairs done here were designed to make it more comfortable, more modern and more functional inside at least. I believe there are no fans of mystique, astrology and supernatural. Because the building we're leaving, and the one we're moving to, are heavily burdened by historical symbolism. By the way, many citizens are justly moved by the fact that it has not yet been removed from the facade the crest of the People's Republic. This proved constructively very complicated and therefore very expensive. Nevertheless, this unwanted symbol will soon be removed... if not during this National Assembly, the next. [[Radio in BSP for Bulgaria.]] As we all know, not buildings, not bricks, marble or concrete determine the quality of work of a parliament. It is determined by the spirit of the living, the working people in it, and if they have the will to offer citizens and taxpayers meaningful debates and laws, they will not have to justify that the ghosts of the past have prevented them. I would like to offer a special thanks, and I hope all of you, Members of the National Assembly. It is to the administration of the National Assembly and to the entire team, which managed within a month to do the huge and difficult task of turning an empty area into a place of work. A few days ago, they gathered here to test the renovated voting system. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] They didn't get a hitch, so I hope we don't have any problems. So: we are well gathered in the new building! Today, colleagues, there is yet another great responsibility ahead of us. We must speak, debate and hear each other's opinions, but all the time we must use the language of understanding for the sake of the welfare of our people. Otherwise, the opposition, the language of hatred and hatred among us politicians will also move among our compatriots. [[Displays from DPS: "This is a fact, this is a fact. "]] And this is dangerous and disastrous because in complex times like today we need more than ever to be united and united by our common goal: the better life of Bulgarian citizens. I will not become a moral judge to anyone, but shortly after I give the floor in plenary for the traditional address at the beginning of the new parliamentary session, every speaker here will be watched and heard by the people, the media and all of us. Everyone will have the moral responsibility for what they say. Good luck to you and good luck to the new session! [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u10	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u11	Come in for a procedure, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u12	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I listened with interest and observed this prickly spirit, which apparently corresponds to the spirit of the protests outside. In your speech, you spoke about the spirit of parliamentaryism, only one of the holders of the spirit of parliamentaryism is the division of authorities. There's another person missing here today. This is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Boyko Borisov still Prime Minister. I ask that he be invited here to the National Assembly to attend this solemn meeting of the National Assembly, and you announced it at the beginning of this new parliamentary session, which is facing a number of important questions for Bulgaria. Please invite Mr. Borisov again, who I suppose has much more important work to do than to be...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u13	Thank you, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u14	...here, in the National Assembly, before the protesters and before the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u15	I understand your procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u16	Let him come here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the President of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Radev and Vice President Mrs. Yotova are in the National Assembly today. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] For address of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria to the people and the National Assembly under art. 98, p. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I give the floor to Mr. Radev. Mr. President, please address the Assembly and the Bulgarian people! [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) The MPs from the parliamentary groups of GERB, OP and VOLIA are coming out of the hall. Screams from BSP for Bulgaria Resignation, resignation, resignation!]] Order, please! Order in the court, fellow Members!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u18	Dear MPs, running away won't save you from disgrace. This shows that the real parliament is outside. [[Voices "Obsign!," noise and applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u19	Mr. President, wait for the coworkers to leave the room! I see that there is such a desire and you will continue with the speech. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Colleagues, I can't influence the parliamentary groups. It's a decision of the parliamentary groups, so... [[Reply by Georgi Svilenski from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u20	Madam President of the National Assembly, Vice President, Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the media, compatriots! Of course, I am not entirely delighted that I am in the National Assembly in this situation, but both me and you Bulgarian citizens have chosen us to represent them and solve their problems and at least listen to each other. I will not comment on this leaving, but it is indicative, in fact, of the lack of dialogue and why people today are on the street. First, I would like to congratulate you with the new hall and wish it to be a witness to wise decisions for the benefit of the Bulgarian people. I appeal to you, Members of the National Assembly, because in the deep moral and institutional crisis, in the growing distance I will not use any other word consciously, between citizens and governors precisely the National Assembly is the institution which should be responsible in its decisions on civil peace and the future of Bulgaria. You remember that exactly one year ago of this tribune I turned to the people and the National Assembly. I outlined the situation in the country and the problems that break up our society: unbridled corruption, ineffective governance, the concentration of power and public resources in a narrow range of people, leading to the deepening of poverty, inequalities and demographic crisis, to the decline of education and health care, to the collapse of institutions. I set out ways for them to be resolved, aimed at strengthening civil participation and control over governance, strengthening the rule of law, strengthening parliamentary control over the executive power, more transparency and accountability in the work of the institutions, strengthening direct democracy, introducing financial decentralisation, improving the business environment. I have called Parliament, as a central authority of the government, to action to achieve these important goals for our society. I made it clear that the time for change is running out relentlessly, just as the young and hardworking Bulgarians are running out, as the Bulgarian villages and the Bulgarian pensioners who are left at random are dying one after the other. I have called on Parliament to concentrate its efforts on the important decisions for the country's future. You remember, I suppose, I warned that if this did not happen or apathy would continue to empty Bulgaria, or the street would sweep away the status quo. Those words were ignored, I suppose, in the hope that all problems would sink into apathy, but today the street filled with outraged and concerned about the future of Bulgaria people came for resignations. If the National Assembly had exercised stronger, fuller control over the executive power, there would now be no viciously spent billions, inks of oligarchs, currency-filled lockers and angry people-filled streets. If the National Assembly had listened to calls and vetoes for non-lobbied legislation, it would now not have been with such reduced trust and would have had a much more constructive influence on public processes. There is something even more frustrating about the loss of trust, and it is the loss of dignity, because parliament has allowed itself to become an unconditional contractor of the Prime Minister's will. Also, no one in this room dared to ask even one question in the Attorney General's report. After two months of unwinding protests in the country, the unremembered consolidation of our countrymen abroad, the severe discreditation of Bulgaria in the world media, I think everything has been said and the diagnosis of such governance has been finally set. I expect that the Bulgarian Parliament will no longer be involved in the role of serving staff of the Prime Minister, not to replace the public agenda, what the public wants today, not to desecrate parliamentaryism with an illiterate exercise for a new Constitution and a Grand National Assembly, which aim only to save today's government. It only prolongs agony and stirs people's anger. It was not the lack of a new Constitution and a Grand National Assembly that brought people out on the street, but the lack of morale in government, undermining the foundations of statehood and corruption. The Bulgarians clearly stated their will and demands for immediate resignations what you hear from the outside today, and people continue to flock, resignations of the government and the chief prosecutor, fair elections and new trust. These resignations are inevitable because people have emerged from the hypnosis of propaganda, overcome fear and insist on their right to live in a normal state a desire incompatible with the current government. And when these resignations become a fact, I call on you to prevent any attempts on the status quo to deceive citizens' expectations and to concreteise behind an expert cabinet that will be nothing more than a puppet of current power. This will be the only way for this National Assembly to come out with dignity from this crisis situation. The Bulgarian Parliament is the highest institution in the country and should be the most respected, but it depends on whether the people's elect will make their decisions, taking into account the will of their constituents in particular. And if you do not want to hear from me, then you should at least hear your constituents who are outside today and not vote expertly and any other government in the mandate of this National Assembly and not vote on the proposed amendments to the Election Law because they are an unacceptable retreat from the democratic conquests of the Bulgarians over the years. If we pretend to be a democratic state, we cannot solve political issues with police methods, we cannot risk escalating tensions. Political issues are resolved by political means and when trust is finally lost, it is clear what is the means of resigning, of course. Yes, I agree, there should be debates about amendments to the Constitution and about making our state a country with the rule of law, a real division of authorities, effective, reporting and transparent institutions working in the interests of citizens, not individuals, parties, oligarchic circles. There should also be a debate on the necessary fundamental conditions without which there is no security of the person, ownership and business, conditions without which there is no European income and there is no quality of infrastructure and public services. However, these debates and future decisions must be taken and taken by the next National Assembly and government with the necessary credit of trust. Thousands of people outside today are proof that huge public energy has been accumulated for change, that a strong civil society has been born in Bulgaria, which will seek a solution for a real European future of Bulgaria, which will require morality in politics and which will be uncompromising to any governor who dares to betray the public interest. I would like from this tribune to address both the protesters and the police for non-violence, for non-violent provocations, because we cannot afford at this very critical time for Bulgaria the fair demands of the people to be corrupted. At this historic moment, the Bulgarian Parliament should be at the height of public expectations and prevent the country from being dragged into chaos, disorder and treachery. As speakers of the will of the people, I urge you to follow the will and demands of the Bulgarians for immediate and unconditional resignation of the government. We have no other way out of the blockade of the state than the peaceful one, except for the normal political act of resignation and a loss of trust. Thank you for your attention. Good luck to you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. We continue with the statements of the parliamentary groups. The Quaestors, please invite the MPs. [[The National Representatives of GERB, OP and VOLIA "Bulgarian patriots" are returning to the Chamber.]] Let's wait for order to come into the room. Here you go, guys. Please take your seats quickly, colleagues. This room is really much bigger than the other one. We continue with the statements of parliamentary groups. Please invite Dr Daritkova Chairman of the political party GERB parliamentary group to make a statement on the occasion of the new parliamentary season. Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are all in this Chamber at the will of Bulgarian citizens as democratically elected as a result of legitimate elections. What we have sworn is to uphold the Constitution and the laws of the country. In this Constitution, it is clearly written that all power stems from the people and no part of the people, political party or other organization, state institution or individual can claim the realization of people's sovereignty. However, every politician has a choice in how to make sense of his presence in politics and remain in the country's history. It will hardly be remembered that from the position of his high post, led by his personal power ambitions, with a clenched fist called for mutiny and rebellion, the one who sows division and aggression, because of which the gallows rise and coffins spread, for which the buildings of the institutions in Bulgaria are corrupted. [[Applause from GERB.]] We from GERB have chosen to be nationally responsible, to seek unity and peace, to build Bulgaria. Today we open the most important session of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. We find it in a new building and a new hall, and, God forbid, this event will be a symbol of positive change, which will raise Bulgarian parliamentaryism to the height at which all Bulgarian citizens expect it to be. I hope that in the new building the next Chambers of Parliament will have the qualities to stand beyond personal attacks, insults and attempts to divide Bulgarian society, and will defend its unity and national interest. During this session we are about to walk the way of the procedure for convening the Grand National Assembly, which, from the position of its super legitimity, will outline the framework of the Bulgarian statehood for the coming decades. From the parliamentary group of GERB we realize the need for decisive changes in the political and public life of the country and we make a clear commitment to assist in their implementation. These changes must be made in sync with the changes in society that have occurred over the past 30 years and meet the challenges the country will face in the future. I would like to stress that the constitutional project that GERB's parliamentary group presented to the Bulgarian society is, above all, a tool for passing through the complex and demanding broad consent procedure for convening the Grand National Assembly. This project is neither the new Constitution nor will it be adopted in this Parliament. The issue today is not about the details of the future basic law, but about the possibility of convening a Grand National Assembly. I stress that the Grand National Assembly will be convened after elections and will receive its maximum broad representation with the election of 400 MPs. The debate on the new Constitution will not be held in the current, but in the next parliament, and only if it is constituted as a Grand National Assembly. Moreover, the new basic law of the country can only be passed with the votes of two thirds of the MPs in the Grand National Assembly. This means reaching maximum broad agreement and maintaining a constant regime of dialogue between the main political forces beyond their differences. The debate in this Parliament will be about whether to convene a Grand National Assembly at all. In this context today, any political force must clearly state its principled position on this possibility. We realize that this is a heavy responsibility that not every party can afford to take. Taking the responsibility to open this procedure, we do not aim to provoke technical conversation, and our aim is to open up the possibility of a national conversation and political debate, which will be conducted by everyone and end with the broadest agreement between parties, institutions and, above all, the Bulgarian people. With this debate, we aim not to outline more dividing lines in society, but to clearly state our will to participate together with our members and sympathizers in the discussion about the future of the country. For us the Grand National Assembly is also an opportunity to overcome the ever deeper division in Bulgarian society. The fathers of the current Bulgarian Constitution have wisely foreseen that its change or changes in it can be carried out only with the support of two thirds of the MPs. This apparent difficulty in the current Constitution today could become a huge opportunity for the entire Bulgarian society because it can be built new national consensus that can be valid for the coming decades. In recent months the dividing lines between the various political forces, institutions, media and civil organisations have acquired the form of a gap that fragmented Bulgarian society and puts the country's development at risk. For us from GERB the division of the Bulgarian people is a danger, not an opportunity. From our position as the first political power and ruling party, we are giving up the opportunity to force our views and declare that, as we have so far, we will strive to have a dialogue with everyone. For us, the point of politics is not to win elections, but to participate in the effort to restrain the nation in a single and common structure, despite political, religious, ethnic, social and economic differences. We do not want to instigate Bulgarians against Bulgarians of political, class, ethnic, religious or any other ideological principle. Moreover, we have no intention of participating in such a scenario, and we will absolutely oppose its implementation. From this high tribune I would like to stress that GERB adheres and will adhere to the basic principles of the current Constitution. We want change not because we reject the basic principles of this basic law, but because we want to upgrade it in the context of the present and the future. We do not deny either the principle of the separation of authorities or the parliamentary nature of the Bulgarian statehood, which are fundamental in the current Constitution. I stress that the tendency of fragmentation of the Bulgarian society will give birth to its representation in the next parliament, which will probably function in configuration with more parties. Therefore, the possibility of convening a Grand National Assembly that we are proposing today may prove impossible not only for the next parliament. Today, Bulgaria is facing significant challenges. The health crisis caused by the coronavirus has not yet passed, and the economic and social consequences of it will yet be felt by the whole society. In addition, the geopolitical challenges in the complex and unstable region in which our country is located are growing. Although the migratory crisis hasn't passed yet. With each passing day, relations between our two neighbours, Greece and Turkey, are sharpened and risk destabilizing the entire region. On this background, Bulgaria has only one chance of unification and national agreement. This is the only guarantee that the price the Bulgarian people will pay for all the crises we face or are about to face will be bearable and the recovery will be as quickly as possible. Dear Members of Parliament, and during this session the parliamentary group of GERB will continue to stand up for its view that the problems of the country cannot be solved by causing a political crisis and confrontation in society. From now on, we are thinking about the next parliament, which, regardless of whether it will have the form of a Grand or ordinary National Assembly, will face much more serious challenges than the current one. We will therefore make every effort necessary to be sparing in terms of qualifications, insults and aggressive behaviour towards political opponents. In the name of Bulgaria, we are and will be ready for compromises and political sacrifices, we will strive to listen and understand what society tells us. I call on each of you in the remaining few months to think more about the challenges facing the country than about close party interests and election calculations. Let us, together and more often, seek the points of agreement between us than the points of division. Everyone here should be aware that Bulgaria is neither starting nor ending with us. The hate policy, which is increasingly defining the agenda of the political debate in Bulgaria, will, however, give its bitter fruit, which will for a long time suck out the strength and confidence of the Bulgarian society. So let us think from today on about restoring the normal dialogue between the political forces and the institutions, and act in the name of the national interest and as the Bulgarian people expect of us. I wish you success and God protect Bulgaria! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u23	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. Mrs. Cornelia Ninova is the chairman of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u24	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, honourable Bulgarians! Bulgaria is in a severe political, parliamentary, institutional, socio-economic crisis and a crisis of confidence in power. For two months now, thousands of Bulgarians have protested on the street and want change. This is the result of Borisov's 10-year corrupt, incompetent, backstage management. He, determined to survive at any cost, today proposes a change in the Constitution. This is not a change, it is a replacement for gaining time, but something much worse is an attack on the foundations of statehood and the basic human values, such as freedom, peace, justice and humanity, which have been removed from the Constitutional Project. For 10 years the government of Borisov and GERB were de facto destroyed the social, legal and democratic state. Now you want to erase them and de jure. Just to remain in power, you are prepared to throw the country and into a constitutional crisis. This proposal does not address any of the open issues that stand today. The political crisis remains, the protest does not stop, but on the contrary is increasing. There is no political formation to support unconditionally and 100% of this amendment to the Constitution. The parliamentary crisis remains. We see that GERB's coalition partners are twisting their hands for the necessary signatures, setting them irresistible conditions. We have heard that even GERB MPs will not sign this humiliating project. Other parties in parliament change positions in hours, probably led by other motives. It's hard to collect these 120 signatures, and 160 are no longer possible. What does it turn out to be? GERB and Borisov are in total political isolation alone and fighting for survival and for several more months political life. We from BSP and Coalition BSP for Bulgaria and in all years we are the guarantor of constitutional order, statehood, social, democratic and rule of law. We want it to be clear, despite all speculations, the parliamentary group of our coalition will not provide a single signature of the required 120, and then the remaining 160, in order to make the replacement that you are proposing. [[GERB lines]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u25	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u26	We will not allow you for your personal power interests to harm statehood. For this Parliament, our priority is one single engine vote. It is clear that the government is leaving, but before that we must ensure fair elections through machine voting. Yesterday, you stepped down from the engine vote and granted an amendment to the Election Code for duplicate paper ballots. We call on all the protesters outside, parliamentary and extraparliamentary parties, Bulgarian citizens to unite and not allow the next elections to be stolen and falsified. The protest won't make any sense if we allow the forgery of the election we've witnessed many times. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u27	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u28	For us, this parliament is delegitimized! There's only one task of voting and relaxing. The government is out of trust. Every day his stay in power deepens the country's crisis. Dear Bulgarians, we are the only party that in four years was a consistent and firm opposition to GERB, which we have never ruled openly or hidden with GERB. We turned them down, we held on to pressure. Four years ago, we named the problem a foreign country, backstage, a liaison between power and mafia. We were alone then. Now you are in the squares of Bulgaria with the same demands. We now have a common goal... You outside and we here the parliamentary voice of the people who want change. We're addressing you today... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u29	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u30	...we will be clear and clear with our position. You be active, but not aggressive, let's not allow violence and excesses. It is clear that Borisov 3 is leaving. Parliamentary roulette and negotiations between the parties will now begin. We state very clearly and make it clear from now on "BSP for Bulgaria" we will not take advantage of the awarded mandate for the establishment of a cabinet in this Parliament. [[Noise and lines.]] We will not participate in the formation of a new cabinet in any way in this Parliament for one reason only. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u31	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u32	Today Bulgaria needs security, stability, a plan to overcome the crisis and perspective. Borisov's government and this majority are the opposite of uncertainty, instability, they have no plan for the crisis and guarantee the lack of perspective of the state. They are looking for a way out of the crisis for themselves. We for Bulgaria and it is in three steps.. engine vote, resignation and fair elections. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u33	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. There was a procedure by Mr. Mareshki in the manner of conduct. Here you go, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u34	Madam President, honourable Members! Madam President, I would like to ask you most strongly when one of these stands, so per kilogram, throwing lies into public space, interrupting it, because in no way do I accept that any normal person in this setting here in this Chamber can make such a bold claim that he is a representative of the stability of the people who are outside and protesting. And I personally believe that such a statement can only be made if you are under the influence of some...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u35	Mr. Mareshki!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u36	...unregulated substances. [[Applause from GERB and VOLIA "Bulgarian patriots."]] So my request is, if anyone else finds the courage to claim to be the representative of the people outside, send him to them with all those who support him in these thoughts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u37	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. The word is Mr. Karadaye, Chairman of the Parliamentary... Excuse me, Mr. Karadaye. Mr. Chenchev has a procedure. The way you're running things? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u38	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honored guests! Madam President, my procedure is with you. First, I do not recall in nine sessions before this in the 44th Parliament that you gave procedures between declarations on behalf of the parliamentary groups in opening sessions?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u39	We're gonna check this thing out.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u40	Secondly, I cannot understand a person who accuses another of making allegations, making statements about who is on what substances, and about this thing and about this really very ridiculous statement, I would even say an accusation, the fellow MP deserves punishment. Put one on him! Moreover, without making any claims, this fellow Member, who is Vice-President of the National Assembly, is one with several pending cases. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u41	Mr. Chenchev, thank you. We continue with the declarations on behalf of parliamentary groups. Mr. Karadayi, you are welcome to make a statement on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u42	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today, on the first day of the new session of the National Assembly instead of defining parliamentary activity for the upcoming season, we have to propose urgent anti-crisis measures for the salvation of the state!? Today we are witnessing a breakdown of statehood. We must combine efforts and save the statehood and the future of Bulgaria. DPS remains responsible to the voters, to all Bulgarian citizens and to Bulgaria. Our mission is to ensure human rights and freedoms, the territorial integrity of the state and its sovereignty, the irreversibility of democracy, a free market economy combined with competitions. DPS is for emergency solutions in the name of peace and stability. What is the current political picture? The war between the institutions has led to the political crisis in which we are today.. to the critical point of chaos. Today's crisis is incomparable in its depth with no one else since the beginning of democracy. We immediately after the elections warned GERB to draw up a single party cabinet with a clear management programme that has broad support in the National Assembly without taking part in the power to support the Management Program. GERB's choice was this populist nationalist cabinet. They also made a coalition contract that they claim to be a management program. On the other hand, four years ago we elected Rumen Radev as president as a counterpoint of the management model of GERB. Instead of Mr. Radev taking on the role of President Uniter of the nation, he chose the model of opposition To date, Mr. Radev chose political opposition and political barricade. Rumen Radev attacked Boyko Borisov and the government, attacked the National Assembly, attempted to oppose judges against prosecutors. In this way they are erosion both the executive power and the legislative power and the judiciary. That's how the president institution eroticizes. Under the Constitution, the President should unite the nation, but instead with his actions Mr. Radev eroticizes all bodies and institutions. And in the end, we have protests today. The protests involve people with different professions, with different views, with different demands, from different ages A catharsis and awakening of civil society is observed. It's not an easy task. On one side, the barricade is asked for resignation and office without clear vision and program what happens next? On the other side, the president's impeachment is required. They say they will fulfill their mandate and there will be no office. The DPS has been repeating for four years what we see today as a fact. Four years of DPS calls on the main political forces to sit at the table and based on their priorities to define the priorities of the state. But that didn't work out. Since 2016, the DPS has been repeating its priorities for the state, namely: clean air, clean water, clean food, clean energy, high technologies, including free and active citizens in the formation of political decisions and in control of their implementation. In 2020, the European Commission and the European Parliament adopted the Green Pact and defined the same priorities as the European Union's priorities. Against the backdrop of this political situation, we must first identify the needs of the state, not in the long term, but in the short term, in a few months. In this crisis, both health and social and economic crisis, especially and political crisis, according to the State's DPS, it needs: firstly, a clear, precise budget which in this health, social, economic crisis will show us the prospectus for a way out of the situation. Secondly, in the already adopted decisions of the European Union to subsidise the effects of COVID-19 Bulgaria should adopt an effective absorption programme for COVID-19. Thirdly, but most importantly: a clear program for effective absorption of funds for Bulgaria from the multiannual financial framework for the next operational period, based on the Green Pact and digital transformation. According to the DPS, the outcome of today's situation is: neither side of the rematch barricade should feel like either a winner or a victim, because the result will be counter-reventionism. We of the DPS propose: first, the resignation of the government. Second, Rumen Radev's resignation as president, along with the government's resignation. If he wants to appear as a politician, he has time to register a party and appear on the material field in the next parliamentary elections. Thirdly, in order to avoid rematching and counter-reventionism, the proposal of the DPS is an expert anti-crisis cabinet to implement the short-term anti-crisis measures mentioned as urgent for Bulgaria, as well as to organise fair and free elections. Fourth, in this cabinet ministers should be those experts from the relevant sectors who are aware of the European Union's priorities for the next operational period in order to prepare the state for effective absorption of funds in relation to both the COVID-19 and the next operational period, and have previously drawn up the national budget in relation to the two topics. And in order for there to be no doubt about the integrity of the elections, in the next expert anti-crisis cabinet, we propose that the prime minister be named by the largest political party and that the deputy prime minister be named by the second largest political party responsible for producing fair and democratic elections. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, it is an hour rather than an hour's time for the responsible political forces to decide on an exit from the crisis. Bulgaria must not miss its historic chance on the path of Europe. The green deal and the CIVID-19 require the preparation of clear programmes at national level within a few months. Preparation must be entrusted to an expert anti-crisis cabinet with clear tasks and deadlines for implementation, clear responsibilities and accountability to the National Assembly. We of the DPS appeal to all political forces to empathize with the choice of a model for the future of Bulgaria! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. Next is a statement from the parliamentary group of the United Patriarchs. Here you go, Mr. Yachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u44	Dear compatriots, Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Just a month ago, we sent a dramatic political season that was completely under the sign of the destructive pandemic of Kovid 19, social isolation, the frozen economy and measures to overcome this crisis. And we should not forget that thanks only to the adequate measures taken by the government, Bulgaria has managed to restructure its health system literally in weeks, provide internal production of protective equipment, equip hospitals with life-saving equipment and thus make our country one of the most protected in Europe. Along with the measures for the protection of the life and health of the Bulgarians, one of the biggest challenges facing the ruling majority of GERB, "United patriots" was the urgent imposition of measures to overcome the economic crisis of COVID-19. We called for a complex of economic and social measures to help overcome the crisis by the most affected sectors in the country. These proposals have become an essential part of the package of measures of over 1 billion. 160 million. BGN, which the government granted to overcome the pandemic. I will remind the most important of them: the reduction of 9% VAT for both restaurants and tour operators and travel agencies; the use of basic tourist services in Bulgarian resorts worth 210 BGN. for people who directly carry out activities to prevent the spread and treatment of COVID-19; increase by 30% of the salaries of more than 24 structures in the state administration, entrusted to the first line in the management of the pandemic and its consequences, including the structures of the Ministry of Health, Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Interior, NSI, social workers and others; one-off addition to pensions for three months in a row of 50 BGN. for more than 2 million Bulgarian pensioners here, we should clearly stress that this does not cancel the commitment of the United Patriarchs to reach a minimum pension of 300 BGN. and we state it clearly and categorically that we will do our best to put this in next year's budget; additional funds to pay personal assistants of 122 million. lv.; daily subsidy of 35 euros for each seat in the tourist charters of flights to Bulgaria. The revival of large infrastructure projects, rehabilitation of the water supply network in Bulgaria, repair of highways, highways and secondary roads, renovation of housing, these are the next economic measures for which we agree in the ruling coalition. Through them the state can really help the business in Bulgaria by including in its implementation small and medium-sized companies who suffered the most during the period of the pandemic. A large part of these measures could not be implemented without urgent legislative changes that must be implemented right now at the beginning of this autumn session of the Bulgarian Parliament. The update of the budget, the changes in a number of social and economic laws are also among the most priority tasks of the parliamentary group of the United Patriarchs. Only thus will economic measures to overcome the crisis become a fact and will actually help the recovery of the Bulgarian economy. At the same time, we are determined to bring the important legislative initiatives through which we implement the priorities that have entered the country's governance and the establishment of the parliamentary majority. Among them is the Law on Obligations and Contracts, which will once and for all solve the problem of the existence of the category of eternal debtor by introducing a 10-year absolute limitation on natural persons. Currently, Bulgaria is the only Member State of the European Union in which there is still no legal basis introducing an absolute limitation on the obligations of citizens or procedures of consumer insolvency; the Law on non-profit legal entities through which transparency should finally be imposed regarding the financing and spending of funds in the non-governmental sector. On the agenda in plenary is also the proposed by the United Patriarchs.......................................................................................... It regulates the possibility of voluntary fulfillment of monetary obligations, repayment of debts without legal procedure, again to support and facilitate the Bulgarian citizens and businesses. During this plenary session will also be examined the draft Law of the United Patriarchs on amendment and supplement of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees for a reduction of 50% of the tax on gas vehicles. This is a real step in the implementation of European environmental standards in Bulgaria as well. The consideration of the Law on Social Services is forthcoming, by which changes are categorically determined that the provision of social services is not a commercial activity for the purpose of making profit, but is aimed at preserving and supporting basic family values and providing protection to needy individuals. In the second reading in plenary, drafts are to be voted on, which are an important part of the programme of "United Patriarchs": The Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments, which introduces the punishment of public service for perpetrators of administrative violations. We believe that this is an effective measure against the frequent anti-social events, marginalized groups in Bulgarian society. In the Penal Code, we expect the support of the members of the plenary for a second reading of the extension of the subject of inevitable defence and minor crimes. These are legal changes that can actually cross the manifestations of domestic crime in small towns. The amendments to the Energy Act regarding the payment of a fee for a building installation are also adopted at first reading, which is a real countermeasure against the arbitrariness of the monopolies in energy. We continue to insist on the realization of the patriotic ideas in the Bulgarian National Assembly in several main guidelines: a systematic policy for strengthening the social self-consciousness of Bulgarians abroad; targeted financial support for our communities abroad, their NGOs, media and schools; the creation of a map - Bulgaria - which gives access to our compatriots from the diaspora for residence and work in the Republic of Bulgaria. And, of course, to highlight the basic social commitment, a commitment related to raising incomes and increasing the minimum pension to 300 BGN. from January 2021 All of these priorities are the price of staying in this government - united patriots - a price that we pay with all awareness of political and public responsibility. And during this political season we state that our parliamentary group will be the most active part of the Bulgarian Parliament so that we can fully meet the expectations of Bulgarian society. We will also take active part in the debate on the draft new Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria with their own ideas and concrete proposals to become an integral part of a joint project which will be discussed by the future Grand National Assembly. Dear colleagues, let us wish for a reasonable, responsible and popular work of the Bulgarian Parliament. Bulgaria above all! [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Yachev. Next is a statement from the parliamentary group of the party Here you go, Mrs. Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u46	Madam President, I would also say here, Mr President, but it is a pity that he did not stay because I will say important things on behalf of the only parliamentary group that is not responsible for Bulgaria being the poorest country in the European Union, and the only one who has remained unblemished in this term of office of this National Assembly. [[BGG of BSP for Bulgaria is leaving the hall.]] Dear colleagues, the ones who are in the Chamber, because apparently BSP colleagues do not want to hear the only antisystemic party. Not a good start to this session, guys. Whatever high-pitched words we utter today from this tribune, the facts remain the same "The Bulgarian people are divided!" He doesn't want leaders just in words anymore. The Bulgarian people need action. Politicians are under pressure. Some try to hold back power at all costs, while others, supported by whom in the shadows, are eager to take that power and do not mourn neither power nor means. There is chaos on the streets, there are roadblocks, protests, counter-protests, some people protest sincerely, others are well motivated by the backstage. The word change is used by everyone and everywhere, but no one, even today, gives the formula for this change, because our society does not want a replacement, but a real change. Is it a change of the parliamentary chairs and of the ministerial chairs to sit again persons who are banished even with stones? It's obvious they want it very badly. It's obvious they're willing to do anything, even if they ruin our country. They try in all kinds of ways to fool people, especially the younger ones, that they're an alternative. What are they, in fact, an alternative to what they did when they were in power?! We at Volya say: no more experiments on the back of the Bulgarian people! It is time for professionals, true patriots, unblemished in corruption schemes and deals, to get the chance to change Bulgaria. To this end, we need only one.. unification, unification of the reasonable and especially of the independent Bulgarians who know how to make this change. Personalities who have not been in power and have not yet demonstrated their qualities. People who have already achieved success, who have worked for their people and have shown that they can. As long as they stand on the sidelines and do not have the opportunity to prove or are too few in parliament, as we of the will, real change will not happen. Until now, there will always be only one replacement. Our position remains unchanged. We are convinced that the best option for the state at the moment is for parliament to broadcast a wide government of professionals and experts, from people with high public confidence, supported by a very large part of the parties, both by the parliamentary represented and by the extraparliamentary, because only such a government can lead our country through the upcoming crisis and prepare fair and honest elections. Anything else would be a waste of time. On the old building stands an emblematic inscription, these are really sacred words: The Unity makes the power. But do all the politicians of the transition, and even in the present, observe these words, confess this principle? Did most of them leave it behind and forget it over the years, especially in the last two months when you can hardly talk about a compound? In fact, they did the opposite to our people, they set some groups of Bulgarians against other groups of Bulgarians. Why? Because their ill ambitions are much more important to them than the well-being of the Bulgarian people and Bulgaria. Colleagues, everyone in Bulgaria knows very well who is who in politics, what can, how he is doing, what he was doing before he became a politician, whether he helped the people, or if he was lying, whether he was involved in corruption and dealing, whether he was honest with the people. The deeds speak best of man, not the words, whether they are spoken by this tribune or in the squares in front of the protesters. At this building, in which today is our first meeting and from now on all the parliaments of Bulgaria will meet, we must put a new inscription and it is to say: "Honestity and patriotism." Only this motto would help to have unity, and it is through it that unity will be possible. Again, fellow Members, we may be the smallest parliamentary party presented, but it is good to listen to us, especially at the beginning of each session. This is not the time for political wars or personal ambitions. It is time for will, patriotism and quick action to improve the life of all Bulgarians. On behalf of the WOLI Parliamentary Group, I declare that we are handing out and ready to work with anyone who will confess these values so that we can spend our country through this crisis with the least damage to Bulgaria and our people. Thank you. [[Applause from the Bulgarian Rhodolists.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u47	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. Colleagues, we're done with the statements.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u48	In the manner of conduct! Mr. Rashidov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u49	Dear Madam President, I will allow myself to say a few words in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u50	Of course, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u51	I have listened carefully to the reports....................... we are very often populist toying with the notion of people. However, I want in this House to know clearly and precisely which people we are talking about. If we are talking about the protesters, I would very much like, when we say "people," to see the words of the Bulgarian doctors - thousands who today are struggling with COVID-19; teachers who are preparing for the new school year; artists, big Bulgarian names - I do not see them there, who wonder how in this insidious disease to fill the halls and earn a living; scientists who also do not see them there. So very carefully we need to talk about who is the people. The people are the guys who sit with some jerseys outside and they say: "Mouthy out! " or the people are what is at work today. When a president allows himself to say, "Mouthy out! " he must be aware that this is a parliamentary republic and does not have the right to attack parliament. Which one of you is the face? I ask: Is it Daritkova, is it Tzipov, is it Ivanov, colleagues, you?! By what right does the president allow himself to call us goons?! I'm not a mug. And I expected today not to cocoon political talk, but to apologize to both me and you. I think there are decent people in this room, and not a single face, and whoever feels like a face, let him raise his hand. So let's stop with these mantras....arguably state spitting. And society allows itself to use this mantra. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u52	Thank you, dear Mr. Rashidov. Moving on to the first item on the agenda: A NEW DISCLOSURE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR UNDER-SEAMING PROFITS, ACCEPTED BY THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION OF 22 JULY 2020, RETURNED FOR NEW DISCLOSURE BY SAYING No 160 OF 29 JULY 2020 TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF THREAT. 101 OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Mr. Nikolov, would you like to introduce us to the Energy Commission Report?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on Decree No 160 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, received on 30 July 2020, on the return for a new discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Underground Treasures, adopted by the National Assembly on 22 July 2020, and the reasons to the Decree At its regular meeting held on 1 September 2020, the Energy Commission discussed Decree No 160 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, received on 30 July 2020, for a return for a new discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Underground Treasures, adopted by the National Assembly on 22 July 2020, and the reasons to the Ukhaza. The meeting was attended by: from the Administration of the President: Prof. Emilia Drumeva, Secretary of Legal Affairs, and Dr. Nevin Fetty, Counselor of Legal Affairs; from the Ministry of Energy: Mr. Zhecho Stankov, Deputy Minister, Mr. Stanislav Stankov, Director of the Department of Natural Resources and. The Chairman of the Energy Commission Mr. Valentin Nikolov reported that on the basis of art. 101, para. 1 of the Constitution, the President returns to the National Assembly the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Underground Treasures adopted by the National Assembly on 22 July 2020, challenging paragraphs 13, 24, 25, 51 and 91. The decree and the motives for it were reported by Professor Emilia Drumeva. The President states in his reasoning that § 13 of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Underground Treasures regulates the possibility for the applicant to grant a search and study permit or a mining concession to prove financial, technical and professional opportunities by using the resources of a third party. To this end, it should demonstrate that there are no grounds for exclusion under art. 23, para. 2, including that when carrying out the search and research contract, or for research, or the concession contract, the resources of the third party will be available. Makes the impression that the third party is not required to respond jointly with the applicant. It should be noted that in the system of concessions under the Law on concessions with art. 63, para. 3 expressly provides for the third party to be able to demonstrate the fulfilment of the financial and economic condition requirements to be jointly responsible with the concessionaire for the performance of the concession contract as provided for therein, taking into account the nature and size of the commitment made by the third party to provide resources. The use of third party capacity should be combined with guarantees that, for the duration of the contract, the applicant will have the necessary resources. Such a requirement is also accepted in art. 38 (2) of Directive 2014/23/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the award of concession contracts which apply to works and services concessions. There is no reason for such a guarantee not to be provided for in concessions for the extraction of underground riches. § 24 of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Underground Treasures extends the rights granted by the concession for extraction to the concessionaire. In addition to the acquisition of the right of ownership of the types of groundwater for which the concession was granted, the right to use the mining waste, the right to carry out all the necessary extraction activities, the concessionaire will be able to carry out open activities outside the field outline within the scope of the concession area granted for the purpose of extracting underground wealth from the field in depth, as well as to initiate or apply for approval of an investment proposal under the Environmental Protection Act. For the purposes of § 1, t. 17 of the Additional Provisions of the Environmental Protection Act An investment proposal is a proposal for construction works or construction of installations or schemes, as well as other interventions in the natural environment and landscape, including extraction of minerals. As a result of § 24 of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Underground Treasures, the concessionaire is given extended opportunities to carry out activities outside the boundaries of the field and to interfere in the environment and landscape, creating a risk to the lives and health of the people. There are no regulatory guarantees that these rights will be used for the purpose of extracting underground wealth from the field in depth, without exceeding the concession area granted. There are no grounds for the reasons which require the adoption of the relevant amendments and what effect they are expected to have. § 25 of the adopted law allows the period of the concession for extraction which, according to the unchanged version of art. 36, para. 1 of the Law on Underground Treasures is up to 35 years old, to be extended at the reasoned request of the concessionaire, made under the terms and conditions laid down by the Law. It is envisaged that the total duration of the concession cannot be longer than 50 years (the new version of art. 36, para. 2). In addition, in the newly created para. 3 of art. 36 It is possible, under certain conditions and on a reasoned request by the concessionaire, to extend the concession period to 10 years after the expiry of the general period and subject to the conditions laid down in para. 2. Under § 91, motivated proposals under those rules will also be able to make concessionaires under concessions for the extraction of underground riches, which expire within 6 months before or up to one year after the entry into force of the Law. The law lays down, in particular, the conditions under which the relevant reasoned proposals may be made. However, the concerns posed by the long-terms which are in fact in favour of the original concessionaires cannot be exceeded. They restrict the free business initiative of other economic operators and deprive the State of the possibility of achieving better conditions for concessions. The general rule concerning the extension of the period for concessions in art. 34, para. 1 sentence second of the Law on concessions states: "The duration of the concession may be extended, with the total duration of all extensions, regardless of the basis for this, cannot be longer than one third of the specific period fixed by the concession contract. Indeed, concessions for underground riches are granted and implemented under the terms and conditions of the Law on Underground Treasures, expressly provided for in art. 25, para. 1 of the Law on concessions. However, in this case, the deviation from that guarantee rule is neither publicly justified nor provides equal legal conditions for business, nor prevents abuse of monopoly status and unfair competition. In order to base Bulgaria's economy on the free business initiative, the Law must guarantee all legal entities the same conditions without creating undue advantages. The main concern must be directed towards the re-use of state property with the thought of future generations, which should exclude the excessive duration of concessions. Leaded by this understanding, I exercise my right to return for a new discussion § 25 and the related § 91 of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Underground Treasures. § 51 of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Underground Treasures is given a new version of art. 57, according to which a candidate who made a commercial discovery shall be compensated for the damage actually suffered under the current legislation if, following the issuance of a commercial discovery certificate, there is a danger to national security, to the country's defence, to the environment, to the water, to the safety of the population and to human health, to the destruction or damage of cultural values or to the destruction and damage of roads from the Republican road network. In response to Professor Drumeva's exhibition took Deputy Minister Stankov, who made arguments against the veto imposed. On the grounds of the President's Administration concerning § 13 the Ministry of Energy considers that there is no reason to introduce the Institute of Solidar Responsibility in cases where, for the implementation of the work programme under the contracts for the search/search of underground wealth or the plan for the development of the site, the resources of a third party are relied on. The fact is not taken into account that there are mandatory financial collateral (bank guarantees) to any contract for search and exploration or concession which from the outset ensure that the person seeking or acquiring will fulfil his obligation under the work programme or development plan voted for, as well as his obligations for liquidation and conservation or recultiation of areas for which he is required. The holders of the search and investigation contracts and concessionaires under the underground mining contracts shall be determined following a strictly regulated long-term formal procedure, including solidarity liability. A third party will clear the liability of the contracts in case of established non-compliance with agreed obligations. In over 500 existing concession contracts (517 pieces) and more than 90 search and study contracts (94 pieces) the introduction of solidarity liability does not contribute to improving the effectiveness of control, but, on the contrary, it constitutes a potential obstacle to the implementation of the contracts and the control of them by the State. It should be noted that an analogy with the Law on concessions should not be made in this case, as this regulation is not applicable and relevant to the mining industry. In particular with the provision of art. 25, para. 1 of the Law on concessions provides that concessions for underground riches are envisaged and implemented under the terms and conditions of the Law on Underground Treasures. About § 24, which amends art. 34 of the Law on Underground Treasures, the text takes into account the specifics of the technology for the extraction of each locality and ensures that the underground wealth will be rationally seized as required by the existing text of art. 87, para. 2, p. 4 of the Law on Underground Treasures, which requires optimal extraction of useful components from the field. The specifics of the extraction activity should also be taken into account where there are technological yield horizons which are formally coming out of the field but are within the concession area, allowing the underground wealth to be seized in depth. With the amendments adopted to art. Paragraph 25 36 shall be regulated and refined for the duration of a concession in such a way as to ensure the interest of the State to the maximum extent. The text fills a discriminatory gap in the current law by equalising the possibilities and rights of all concessionaires under the concession contracts currently in force, namely to have equal conditions for the duration of the concession contracts. The provision ensures that, if a concessionaire has fulfilled all of his obligations under the concession contract and there are reserves/ resources in the deposit that cannot provide a new cost-effective concession contract, the concessionaire has the right to request the extension of the contract in order to exhaust what remains in the underground fortune. If this right is not settled in the Law, there is a real possibility that the State will not be able to ensure a complete and optimal seizure of the underground wealth in a locality until its current concessionaire agrees to give consent or sell the investments made so far for infrastructure in the field by which it has been seized. It has not been taken into account that by para. 4 of art. 36 of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Underground Treasures expressly provides for compliance of the specific concession contract with the legislation currently in force, including with regard to the amount of the concession payment due. The order of Art. 57 § 51 of the Law on Underground Treasures also acts at the moment, such as the change that has been made provides for the cost of compensation in cases where a concession is refused due to the existence of a circumstance under art. 56, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Underground Treasures, the existence of a danger to national security, the defence of the country, the environment, cultural values arising from the issuance of a certificate of commercial discovery of the site of underground wealth, to be provided under the budget of the Ministry of Energy, instead of the budget of the relevant body that issued the search and survey permission (over the years these are the Ministry of Environment and Water, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Ministry of Economy and Energy). Since 2010, the Law on Underground Treasures has been amended, a single body has been established to manage underground wealth by the Minister of Energy. It should be noted that the compensation regulated by this provision is due in cases where the grant of a concession for extraction is refused for objective reasons, the presence of which cannot be included in the applicant's fault, which, in turn, carried out search and investigation activities or in the exploration of underground riches entirely at its own risk or at its own expense. During the discussion spoke the MPs Atanas Kostadinov, Dimitar Boychev, Tasco Ermenkov and Valentin Nikolov. On behalf of the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria "Atanas Kostadinov" pointed out that the veto is a chance to refine the controversial texts and said that "BSP for Bulgaria" will support the veto of the President. After a discussion and a vote, the Energy Committee with 12 votes in favour, 6 votes against and without abstention proposed to the National Assembly that the Law on Underground Treasures, adopted by the National Assembly on 22 July 2020, be re-accepted by the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u54	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. To speak, Mr. Yankov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u55	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Such a deadline for concessions is in the foreseeable future. The dynamics of technology development, changing standards and constantly increasing criteria for preserving and restoring the environment, as well as the country's very economic situation, are not subject to any planning and forecasting with such a distant horizon. There is no government and National Assembly, which, with a 4-year term, has the authority to hand over national wealth for private and even foreign use and benefits. You have no right to deprive two generations of Bulgarians of the ability to manage their own resources, to put them under the dependencies of your short-sighted policy and corruption schemes! In addition to the unjustified advantages that this law confers on the initial concession concluded compared to future emerging economic entities, concessions thus provide prerequisites for the monopoly position of users of certain natural deposits. I can't ignore your typical model of inadequacy and ambiguity in law-making. This allows for interpretation in the application of the Law itself. This is the case with the function, rights and obligations of the third party. The President's veto is justified by the reasons set out and contains sufficient reason to conclude that this law does not protect national interests and must not only be corrected, but must happen after a thorough public discussion. What is happening in the squares of the whole country shows that the credit of trust in your management is exhausted and any order of national resources is perceived as abuse and robbery. Leave this law for consideration in the next parliament, which will reflect in it the new approach to state and not corrupt interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u56	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Mr. Chakarov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms on the texts in question. We will support the same texts, particularly in the part where we welcome the possibility of extending it where necessary. I will not agree with any negotiating colleagues then, where necessary, to extend the duration of the concession by the concession holder to 10 years and to be legally settled. [[noise and lines]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u58	Excuse me, Mr. Chakarov. Colleagues, please take your seats!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u59	In a nutshell. Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, I will present to you the backgrounds of how consensus has been reached, I stress, among all parliamentary political forces for these texts. I'm surprised at the position of my colleagues at the Left. At the meeting that we organized and held initially at the Ministry of Energy here I would like to thank the entire team of the Ministry, first, Minister Petkova, then her team - I would like to say that consensus from all parliamentary represented political forces, MPs from Plovdiv District and from Plovdiv City, we were at this meeting at which the arguments were presented. In the present case it was about Lucky, as I recall about mine that the term of service expires and over 460 people with an average salary of more than BGN 2300. They'd go out on the street. Currently, for one month this mine has not worked and expects the provisions of these texts of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Underground Treasures to continue their work, but this does not only concern these people. For a community like Lucky, if these people don't work, that means total social collapse. I don't want to think about what would happen to these families. Among those 400 workers working in the mines, there are families, logistics and so on. In addition, production goes to the plant KCM near Plovdiv, where more than 2000 people work. If there is not enough raw material there, there is no way for the investor not to make the corresponding cuts.. You see what social dimensions such an approach would have. So we reached a consensus after presenting the arguments. This is not a rule, this would not apply to absolutely all concessions, but only where there is a relevant geological resource available. There was a discussion whether the deadline should be fixed until the georesource was exhausted or up to 10 years. There has been a consensus that this will be up to 10 years. I believe that this is a correct wording. In this way it will be possible, there are two or three other cases that will proceed in the same way so as to have the opportunity to continue the operation, the work, respectively and the social vector to be preserved. If this is not taken into consideration, I am surprised why President Radev's advisors have obviously misled him and have not presented the exact arguments, because here it is commented, and today it was said that there should be a good business environment. How will there be a good business environment when in this way very serious restrictions are created, as were the arguments of all MPs from Plovdiv region and from Plovdiv city, that after the investor, this was also expressed by experts from the Ministry after serious investments were made after the necessary infrastructure was created, if an interruption is required I am not an expert in mining, it would suggest support at least with huge financial resources. To restore the work then much more money will be needed to put one such mining activity back into operation. All these funds against the background and the crisis that emerges. Economically, against the backdrop of the pandemic of the coronavirus, I do not know whether we are aware of the consequences, what reflections would have on a sensitive sphere. Last but not least, we need to know that this activity specifically in this part is entities that concern and are almost entirely export realization. So the arguments that we share with our parliamentary group in order to support them in a very brief way, and we will again support the texts so that there is a possibility of mining where there is a need for a guarantee resource for a corresponding period, to extend the corresponding concessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u60	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. Here you are, Mr. Kolev, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u61	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to address you as to why we should reject the veto and why we should support the Underground Treasures Act. Do we have so many investors lined up right now to remain the old law, to remain the old opportunities for mining underground riches?! It's time to untie the investors' hands. It is time for these investors to have the administrative comfort that the Law provides, to extend, to increase the concession period, to extend the opportunities for the extraction of a field, in one place, to a locality. So very carefully read what is written as motives and you will see that they are completely untenable. And if we look through the prism, through the investor's eyes, you will understand how much these changes are needed, even if they are insufficient. Even in time, the hands of those who would like to live by the laws of the country should be considered more untied, respecting all the laws of the country, respecting all the laws of environmental and other laws concerning the regulation and the extraction of these riches, to be done in a legal manner. So my personal opinion and the colleagues with whom I have spoken is that we need to reject the veto and help investors at this difficult time, and in their respect worthy investment, job creation, untie their hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u62	Thank you, dear Mr. Kolev. For a line, Mr. Atanasov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear colleague Kolev, I take a cue for nothing else You have basically well justified things, but I want to explain to some MPs purely visually the disputes were mostly about these long deadlines. Yesterday in the Energy Committee, we met for more than two hours and I regret that BSP colleague is extremely politicizing his speech, and this is a purely professional debate. In the Commission, we also listened very carefully to representatives of the Mining and Geological Chamber headed by its chairman. I also listened very carefully to colleague Chakarov, who was also a minister of one of the key ministries, and I would like to tell you that all over the world these concessions are given for a long time for many reasons. One of these reasons, colleague Kolev, you should stress that the capitals are extremely large, the permits that pass through several ministries are extremely long, but mostly very clever we, as lawmakers, decided to add another ten years to the concession that has been won, because, if you imagine this time limit has expired, the resource below the ground is not completely exhausted, and the concessionaire, imagine, withdraws all its equipment and in just two days by specialists, I repeat it, claiming that in just two days this mine is flooded. Every specialist knows that. And it takes tens of millions to get his work fully restored or gassed.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u64	The weather, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u65	So in this respect, you only had to stress that this is why these long periods of concessions are all over the world, so that this wealth, which is really running out of 200 meters underground. On top of that, the concessionaire then has a huge cost of re-cultivation of the closed area, respectively the exhausted locality.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u66	The weather, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u67	Yes, thank you. Madam President, just one sentence. So we from our parliamentary group will strongly declare ourselves against the president's veto because at yesterday's debate we listened very carefully to both the experts and the specialists themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u68	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Will there be a hole, Mr. Kolev? I can't see. Mr. Nikolov, come in for a statement. This is the last statement, so please, the Quaestors, invite the Members of the House to take part in the vote. Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u69	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I will try to be brief, but I was provoked by the only statement of the BSP, which, in fact, actually looked at this consensus law, supported three of the four paragraphs, which the President returned with his veto, and at first reading, supported the Law in full, seeing that this law is consensual, that it actually supports a guild, which creates just over 5% of the country's gross domestic product, where there are over 25 thousand people employed and where there are 120 thousand people serving this sector, that is, an important sector in Bulgaria. This law was started to write.. I am talking about the Law on Amendment and Supplement, as early as 2017, and for more than three years there has been a consensus between all interested parties. And there was plenty of time for public discussion. There have been corresponding debates in our committee....................... and we found no problem anywhere................................................................................ and there was no problem anywhere............................................................ Suddenly some veto, shortly before the previous session of the National Assembly, the President returned it. That's why I think I'm finding political intent, not legal, or in the form of searching for some kind of lobbying, as the BSP has now accused us of. If they knew there was lobbying, they would have voted against it even when we voted at the second reading of the Law. So I absolutely think that the President was just looking for an option to bring back some kind of law that would somehow show that he disagreed with the National Assembly, but anyway. In short, I would like to say that the House of Mining has, in fact, categorically refuted all the motives of the President's Administration, and the Ministry of Energy has also disproved. We can't compare the Law on concessions to the Law on Underground Treasures. One of them is a specific activity. It is not a coincidence that it is made as a separate law and is not incorporated into the Law on concessions. The concession law really treats persons as solidarity responsible. But when we talk about the Underground Treasures Act, when you made a commercial discovery, and this discovery is not a bit like an area, and as a job, and as a development, you create a program. This program before you make the relevant investments for the acquisition of equipment respectively finding specialists or concluding a contract with the Mine University for example, you cannot make them all responsible in relation to what will help precisely in the implementation of this program, which you have defended at the Ministry of Energy. In fact, the guarantees for this are made by the one who defended this commercial discovery. The contract, which is normally concluded, I mean for the study, is normally concluded by a company with the Law on Obligations and Contracts. However, after the commercial discovery, when it is registered and when a concession contract is signed, a company is established between all persons who will want to operate this particular section. For this reason, it already bears the relevant responsibility, the relevant guarantees are being lodged, both in relation to the reclamation guarantee and enforcement guarantee and in relation to the protection of the environment and there are continuous checks. So I believe that the fact that third parties are not jointly responsible does not exactly reduce the responsibility of the person who actually signed the contract for the operation of the site itself. Accordingly, we do not find the other paragraphs to be detailed, both my colleagues and the Patriots and the DPS have given the relevant arguments. This law is expected from the guild. There are businesses that have now stopped work precisely because they are waiting for this law and it is imperative that we adopt it, and not that we wonder in what way to sabotage the process politically. I therefore believe and call on you to adopt the Law by rejecting the veto and thus enabling this part of our economy to work because it does not shorten any person during the pandemic, not a single person! It had not closed as sectors and it created, as I said, more than 5% of gross domestic product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-02.u70	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. I don't see any other speeches. I'm closing the debate. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. I see that the group of the BSP for Bulgaria is absent. Maybe they are in the couloirs. I'm using the case to invite them to state their position by voting. While I'm reading, there may be more colleagues to take their seats. Honourable Members, I re-vote the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Underground Treasures adopted by the National Assembly on 22 July 2020. We'll wait for every coworker to get a vote. [[Noise and lines.]] Yes, yes, colleagues, we wait calmly. Don't worry about it. Try it a few times. Let us succeed all colleagues who do not allow their panels to vote. Let's wait for Mrs. Georgieva and Mr. Mareshki. Did you make it, Mr. Mareshki? I see from the back that Mr. Alexandrov has a problem with the vote. Yeah, yeah, we're waiting because there's a little problem with the consoles. We're waiting, colleagues, let the Quaestors give me a signal when all my colleagues have managed to vote. It's like they all made it. 135 MPs voted: 133, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. [[Applause.]] The Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Underground Treasures has been re-accepted. The law will be sent to the President of the Republic for promulgation in the Official Journal of the Republic within seven days of its receipt under art. 101, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. This was the last item on today's agenda. Tomorrow a regular plenary session at 9 p.m. 3 September 2020. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
