ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members. There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[Noise.]] Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that the following additional item be included in the weekly Programme for the Work of the National Assembly: First voting of Drafts for amendment and supplement of the Law on Social Services, importers Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 23 June 2020, and Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs on 14 July 2020, and I propose to be the first item in the Programme for today, 17 July 2020, and the first item of the meeting becomes the second item of the meeting respectively. They voted 177 MPs: 123, against 31, abstention 23. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, ? RESPONSIBILITY? No 1838-NS of 16 July 2020 on the announcement of Elena Vladimirova Angelinina as Member of Parliament in the Third Election Region of Varna, in the 44th National Assembly By letter dated 15 July 2020, the Central Election Commission received a decision of the National Assembly of 15 July 2020, with which on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the powers of Andon Dimov Donchev as MP from the Third Election Region were terminated. The Central Election Commission should announce the next candidate on the list, given the early termination of Andon Dimov Donchev's credentials. With entry No. NS-10-1 from 15 July 2020, the CEC received an application from the candidate for MP Dilber Ahmedova Weissalova, announcing that it does not wish to be elected as MP in the 44th National Assembly of the list of Volya party in the Third Election Region. With entry No. NS-10-2 from 15 July 2020, the CEC received an application from the candidate for MP Valentina Ilieva Bancheva, saying that it does not wish to be elected as MP in the 44th National Assembly from the list of the party Volya in the Third Election Region of Varna. With entry No. NS-10-3 from 15 July 2020, the CEC has received an application from the candidate for MP Diana Ivanova Mareshka, saying that she does not wish to be elected as MP in the 44th National Assembly from the list of the party Volya in the Third Election Region of Varna. [[Radio and applause.]] With entry NS-10-4 from 17 July 2020, the CEC has submitted an application from the candidate for MP Evgenia Mihailova Dimova, saying that she does not want [[Laughter, applause]] to be appointed as the National Assembly in the 44th National Assembly on the list of Volya Party in the Third Election Region. [[Laughter, applause.]] With entry No. NS-10-5 of 15 July 2020, the CEC has submitted an application by the candidate for MP Nikolay Pavlov, stating that he does not want [[Laughter, applause]] to be elected as MP in the 44th National Assembly from the list of the Volya party in the Third Election Region of Varna. With entry No. NS-10-6 of 15 July 2020, the CEC received an application from the candidate for MP Trifon Hristov Trifonov, saying that he does not wish to be [[Laughter, applause]] Supposedly elected as MP in the 44th National Assembly from the list of Volya party in the Third Election Region of Varna. With entry No. NS-10-7 of 15 July 2020, the CEC has submitted an application by the candidate for MP Rositsa Georgieva Atanasova, saying that he does not want [[Laughter, applause]] to be appointed as the National Assembly in the 44th National Assembly on the list of Volya Party in the Third Election Region. With entry No. NS-10-8 of 15 July 2020, the CEC has received an application from the candidate for MP Veselin Yordanov Bozhkov, saying that he does not wish to be elected [[Laughter, applause]] as MP in the 44th National Assembly from the list of the Volya party in the Third Election Region of Varna. With entry No. NS-10-9 of 15 July 2020, the CEC has submitted an application by the candidate for MP Ionka Tsvetanova Velkovska-Georgieva, saying that he does not want [[Laughter]] to be appointed as the National Assembly in the 44th National Assembly on the list of Volya Party in the Third Election Region. In accordance with art. 255, para. 1, t. 3 of the Election Code, the consent of the applicant to be registered is an absolute prerequisite for its registration by the proposed party, coalition or initiative committee, and after the election has been produced for its appointment as elected MP. Where the applicant for a Member of the National Assembly submits an application to the Central Election Commission that he does not wish to be declared elected as a Member of the National Assembly, it should be interpreted that, in substance, there is a withdrawal of the consent of the applicant given through the application under art. 255, para. 1, t. 3 of the Election Code. The statement addressed to the Central Election Commission containing the reluctance of the applicant to be declared elected as a Member of the National Assembly prevents the Central Election Commission from doing so due to the lack of the legal prerequisite expressing its consent to registration, respectively its declaration as a Member of the National Assembly. There is essentially a statement of refusal by the applicant to be declared elected, which binds the Central Election Commission and makes it impossible to take a decision under art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code against this candidate. It follows that on the basis of applications submitted by the candidates for MPs, namely: Dilber Ahmedova Weisalova; Valentina Ilieva Bancheva; Diana Ivanova Mareshka; Evgenia Mihaylova Dimova; Nikolay Pavlov Pochkanov; Trifon Hristov Trifonov; Rositsa Georgieva Atanasova; Vesselin Yordanov Bozhkov and Ionka Tsvetanova Velkovska-Georgieva, should be removed from the list of the party Volya due to withdrawal of the consent to registration as an absolute prerequisite for its electiveity. On the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. 1 in relation to art. 247, para. 1, t. Art. 6, Art. 255, para. 1, t. Art. 3 and Art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code Central Election Commission HAS DECIDED Deletes from the list of the party Volya candidates for MPs: Dilber Ahmedova Weisalova; Valentina Ilieva Bancheva; Diana Ivanova Mareshka; Evgenia Mihaylova Dimova; Nikolay Pavlov Pochkanov; Trifon Hristov Trifonov; Rositsa Georgieva Atanasova; Veselin Yordanov Bozhkov and Ionka Tsvetanova Velkovska-Georgieva, with the corresponding EGN from the Third Election Region Announcing as MP from the Third Election Region of Varna, Elena Vladimirova Angelinina with the corresponding EGN, under No 13 of the list of the Volya party. [[(Applause, screams) Bravo! (Applause, screams)]] And the second: ? RESPONSIBILITY? No 1843-NS, Sofia, 16 July 2020 on the announcement of Kalin Lyubenov Velev as MP from the Twenty-fourth Election Region Sofia, in the 44th National Assembly By letter dated 16 July 2020, the Central Election Commission received a decision of the National Assembly of 16 July 2020, with which on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria are suspended the powers of Jemma Marinova Grozdanova as MP from the Twenty-fourth Election Region of Sofia, erected by GERB party in the 44th National Assembly. With entry No. NS-10-10 on 16 July 2020, the Central Election Commission received an application from the candidate for MP Yordanka Ivanova Fikirliyska, stating and declaring that it does not wish to be elected as MP from the GERB party's list in the twenty-fourth election district of Sofia, in the 44th National Assembly. In accordance with art. 255, para. 1, t. 3 of the Election Code, the consent of the applicant to be registered is an absolute prerequisite for its registration by the proposed party, coalition or initiative committee, and after the election has been produced for its appointment as elected MP. Where the applicant for a Member of the National Assembly submits an application to the Central Election Commission that he does not wish to be declared elected as a Member of the National Assembly, it should be interpreted that, in substance, there is a withdrawal of the consent of the applicant given through the application under art. 255, para 1, item 3 of the Election Code. The statement addressed to the Central Election Commission containing the reluctance of the applicant to be elected as a Member of the National Assembly prevents the Central Election Commission from doing so due to the lack of an absolute prerequisite expressing its consent to registration, respectively its declaration as a Member of the National Assembly. There is essentially a statement of refusal by the applicant to be declared elected, which binds the Central Election Commission and makes it impossible to take a decision under art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code against this candidate. Following a check of list A and list B on multi-mandated electoral districts, the Central Election Commission found that Yordanka Ivanova Fikirliyska is listed under No 7 on the candidate list of GERB party in the Twenty-fourth Election Region. On the basis of art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code upon early termination of the mandate of the Member of the National Assembly, the Central Election Commission should announce the next candidate on the list. The next candidate on the list of party GERB under No 8 of the list B of the candidate list of party GERB in the twenty-fourth election district Sofia is Kalin Lyubenov Velev. During the official inspection it was found that the candidate under No 6 in the list of GERB party Evgenia Biserova Aleksieva was declared a MP from the list of GERB party in the twenty-fourth election district Sofia, on the basis of art. 302, para. 2 of the Election Code, by Decision No 4749-NS of 5 May 2017 of the Central Election Commission. In the light of the foregoing and within the meaning of Decision No 8 of 6 May 1993 on the efficiency of the No 5/93 of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria The Central Election Commission considers that the term for replacement of Evgenia Biserova Alexieva should be converted into a permanent and stronger reason to take over the vacant parliamentary term of Jemma Marinova Grozdanova. Kalin Ljubenov Velyov "under No 8 of the list of GERB party should be declared a MP for the time during which Vladislav Ivanov Goranov is a minister. In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 247, para. 1, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 2 of the Election Code The Central Election Commission HAS DECIDED Announcing as MP from the Twenty-fourth Election Region, Sofia, Kalin Lyubenov Velev, with the corresponding NGN under No 8 of the list of GERB party in the 44th National Assembly for the time during which Vladislav Ivanov Goranov served as Minister. Dear Quaestors, please invite the two MPs to the Chamber to take an oath. Colleagues, please stand up. Here you are, Mr. Veleov, you will both swear. You'll repeat after me. [[Everyone gets up.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u2	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u3	Congratulations! [[Veselin Mareshki greets and delivers flowers to Elena Angelinina, livening and applause.]] Colleagues, please be quiet! Mr. Mareshki, please come in for a declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! I take this opportunity to thank Mr. Andon Donchev, who I believe was a worthy member of the Bulgarian Parliament. And thank Mr. Shopov for the good grade you gave him. This is exactly the way a worthy, one erudite, one well-behaved man, a true Bulgarian patriot. For a few days the Bulgarian Parliament has been deprived of such presence, but today we can proudly say that it is replaced by no less worthy, no less erudite, educated, honest Bulgarian patriot. I want to wish her good luck by the end of this term! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u5	Please calm down! Go on, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u6	In fact, my declaration will be precisely because of such vulgar behavior that some of the MPs of the BSP had. [[Applause from the Bulgarian Rhodolists.]] I hope they won't tell me it's on the agenda because...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u7	Mr. Mareshki, please don't insult the MPs!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u8	...not because of today's vulgar behavior, but generally about the vulgar behavior that some of the MPs of BSP have...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u9	Mr. Mareshki, please don't insult the BSP colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u10	No, I don't insult coworkers. I insult their behavior. I have to recall, unfortunately, because the moment in the country is as it was in 2013, when the Varnans went to a peaceful protest much more numerous than today, with which they wanted the resignations of the then mayor of BSP Kiril Yordanov...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u11	It was GERB's!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u12	...and the entire City Council. The consultations we did on how to fulfill the will of Varna people were attended by representatives of all parties, including the BSP. Then everyone swore that we could not fulfill the will of the Bulgarian voters to resign because it was the law. I must remind you that the only party that has ever done such a thing, namely to show how it can happen, to do the will of the Bulgarian people, is the Volya party. Then we submitted our resignations to the last person on the list, if you remember, and then the Municipal Council in Varna remained with a smaller number of people because there was no one to enter afterwards. On my invitation, on my application to the BSP then, who were led again, supposedly opposition, the Vice-President of BSP, Varna, in front of the entire committee there, at the meetings, Mr. Avram Todorov, said: "Mr. Mareshki, I am ready immediately to do the will of the Bulgarian people and to resign, but I do not guarantee for my companion after me whether he will perform it or will not come and replace me in the Municipal Council in Varna. For this thing we must not only mock him, Mr. Ermenkov, but we must reprimand him. We should be glad that there are other decent citizens and other parties ready to leave the government to leave the Municipal Council. I can show you right now because you're sitting here, but not with the whole group, like you tricked me back then. I will get one person out of our parliamentary list and the parliament will stay with one MP less. Are you ready to submit your resignations, which the Bulgarian people want right now? Are you ready to release this part of the room? No, you want to sit here, get your salaries, receive your scholarships in the form of subsidies and are not ready to do the will of the Bulgarian people. So next time, if you want to embarrass yourself again and this way to behave, I won't say rude, not to insult you, but in fact that's what everyone saw, and I think the media has fixed it, too, I'm going to ask you to behave more politely! If you have the courage, the valor to go out to the Bulgarian people and something to say, come and say it from the stands and not like this from the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u13	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u14	Madam President, I take a personal explanation, because when accusations are made against me from this tribune, I would accept them if they were in my personal capacity. But I would like to remind Mr. Mareshki and all those who applauded him that there were not only protests in Varna, there were also in Sofia and that I personally participated in these protests outside with the people. And now I can go out and look them in the eye not through the windows of Maybach with the blue lights, but the way I've always looked them and defended their rights. Therefore, please very much, when accusations are made from this tribune, look at yourself in the mirror, look at yourself, look at your past and then try to be moral moralists of society, because you have neither the moral nor the actual right to be such. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR SOCIAL SERVICES. Here you are, Mr. Ademov, to brief us on the two reports of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u16	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of a bill amending and supplementing the Social Services Act, No 054-01-55, submitted by Iskren Vasilev Veselinov and a group of MPs on 23 June 2020. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at a regular meeting held on 15 July 2020, discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Services Act with importers Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by Zornitsa Rusinova, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy and experts from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The bill was presented by the MP Alexander Siddy. He emphasized on the fact that the changes made aimed at reducing public tensions caused by the adoption of the Social Services Act. The reasons for the bill are that the proposed amendments to art. 3 make an important reference to the purpose of the Social Services Act. It is emphasized that through the provision of social services the constitutionally established protection of the family, maternity and children, of the elderly and of persons with physical and mental disabilities is carried out. It is explicitly pointed out that the provision of social services does not constitute a commercial activity of purchasing, selling or exchanging assets for the purpose of making a profit, but is aimed at preserving and supporting basic family values, including providing protection to individuals in need. A new para is being created. 2 of art. 81, which provides that when preparing an individual assessment of the needs of the child, the consent to disclose information to be given by the parent/guardian when the child is underage and by the minor with the assistance of the parent/producer. Another motive for submitting the bill is to make such changes to the Child Protection Act to ensure more intensive protection of the parent whose child is placed outside the family by order of the director of the Social Assistance Directorate. In fulfilling this objective, the Bill provides that the order will be subject to prior enforcement under the law, but that the child's parents may appeal within 7 days of notification. The importers have made several more amendments to the Child Protection Act, the aim of which is to take measures and provide for a guarantee that raising children will take place outside the family only at a last resort, after all possible legal measures for the protection of children in a family environment are exhausted. As far as the change of the Family Code is concerned, and in particular the annulment of para. 1 of art. 138a, the possibility will be removed from the possibility of the social service providers providing opinions to serve as a basis for social reports in legal proceedings in a dispute over parental rights. A preliminary assessment of the impact of the bill has been applied to the Bill. The Commission received the opinions of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the State Agency for Child Protection. During the presentation of the opinion of the Ministry of Interior Deputy Minister Zornitsa Rusinova pointed out that the Ministry generally supports the changes made, but most of them need precision. The discussion was attended by the MPs Galya Zhelyazkova, Svetlana Angelova, Hasan Ademov, Georgi Gokov, Alexander Siddi, Violeta Zheleva, Milko Nedyalkov and Nadia Klisurska. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 11 votes...... 1 vote................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ He proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Social Services Act, No 054-01-55, submitted by Iskren Vasilev Veselinov and a group of MPs on 23 June 2020. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Social Services, No 054-01-71, submitted by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs on 14 July 2020. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at a regular meeting held on 15 July 2020, discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Services Act submitted by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by Zornitsa Rusinova, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy and experts from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The bill was presented by the MP Svetlana Angelova. In the beginning, she recalled that the Law on Social Services entered into force on 1 July 2020. According to § 43 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law, part of its regulations should be adopted by the Council of Ministers within three months of its entry into force. In order to avoid blocking the system within this three-month period, it is necessary to make additions to already existing transitional provisions of the Social Services Act. These changes must enter into force from 1 July 2020 in order to prevent a gap in legislation. The main changes are the following: - Until the adoption of the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on Social Services, the targeting of all persons for the use of social services financed by the state budget will be carried out only by "Social assistance" and the individual assessment of the needs and individual plan for the support of the person will be prepared in the current order before the conclusion of the contract for the use of social services. - Until the adoption of the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on Social Services when requesting prior approval for establishment, change in the number of users and the place of provision of social services financed by the state budget, the mayors of municipalities will provide the information and documents required by the current order, except for a decision of the Municipal Council. The time limit for issuing by the Executive Director of the Agency for Social Assistance of the order for prior approval or for refusal shall be laid down. The procedures for establishing, terminating, changing the number of users and the place of providing social services will be completed in the current order. - Until the adoption of the Rules of Procedure of the Agency for the Quality of Social Services, the State Agency for the Protection of the Child and the Inspectorate of the Agency for Social Assistance will continue to monitor the provision of social services under the current order. - The procedures for licensing private providers of social services started until the entry into force of the Social Services Act and their registration in the register of the Social Assistance Agency will be completed in the current order. - The municipal competitions for the award of the management of social services delegated by the state activities and local activities will be completed in the current order until the entry into force of the LSU. Another part of the changes is related to the postponement of the entry into force of the Social Services Act of 1 July 2020, where no other time limits directly related to the general period for the entry into force of the Law were postponed. It is therefore necessary to extend the other periods depending on the overall period. These are: - The deadline for the adoption of the National Social Services Card under § 31, para. 1 and the related term under § 44 for the financing of the services under the Map under the new funding standards developed under the Social Services Act, the municipalities will not be able to develop analyses of the needs and, accordingly, the proposals for inclusion of services in the National Card for a period of less than 6 months. In order to be able to start these activities, it is necessary to adopt by the Council of Ministers a Regulation on the planning of social services. The procedure itself for accepting the National Card from the Council of Ministers will also be a minimum of 2 months with a view to the need for public consultation and compliance with legal requirements. If the time limit for the Map is not extended, municipalities will have to carry out analyses and develop proposals within about 3 months. On the other hand, the funds for social services are bet in the State Budget Act and there is no way to start funding according to new standards from the middle of the year 1 July 2021. Therefore, it is proposed that both the adoption of the Map and the financing under the new standards match the beginning of the budget year 2022. Until then, the services will be financed according to the standards developed in the current order. - The period for licensing under the Law on Social Services of Previous Private Suppliers under § 38, para. In order to preserve the one-year period initially regulated in the Law, the deadline is also required to be postponed by 6 months of the entry into force of the CSU. A preliminary assessment of the impact of the bill has been applied to the Bill. The Commission received the opinion of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, which supports the bill. The discussion was attended by the MPs Galya Zhelyazkova, Svetlana Angelova, Hasan Ademov, Georgi Gokov, Alexander Siddi, Violeta Zheleva, Milko Nedyalkov and Nadia Klisurska. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 11 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Social Services, No 054-01-71, submitted by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs on 14 July 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. Will there be an importer's motive? Here you go, Mr. Siddy.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u18	Thank you, Madam President. The postponement and entry into force of the Social Services Act caused a very serious public reaction and people who were on the street daily demanding to make the necessary changes and reduce this public tension. This is not the first time we have spoken on the subject, you know, that we have also made a proposal adopted by the National Assembly to codify this matter with which to try to finally resolve these issues. That is why, until the codification itself, we made a proposal for a change in the Law on Social Services with the following reasons: The proposed amendments to art. 3 make an important reference to the purpose of the Social Services Act. It is emphasized that through the provision of social services the constitutionally established protection of the family, maternity and children, of the elderly and of persons with physical and mental disabilities is carried out. It is explicitly pointed out that the provision of social services does not constitute a commercial activity of purchasing, selling or exchanging assets for the purpose of making a profit, but is aimed at preserving and supporting basic family values, including providing protection to individuals in need. A new para is being created. 2 of art. 81, which provides that when preparing an individual assessment of the needs of the child the consent to disclose information shall be given by the parent/guard when the child is underage and by the minor with the assistance of the parent/producer. The envisaged amendments to the Child Protection Act aim to provide more intensive protection to the parent whose child is placed outside the family by order of the director of the Directorate of Social Assistance. 27, para. 1 of the Child Protection Act, including in the case of so-called emergency accommodation outside the family. In fulfilling this objective, it is envisaged that the order be subject to prior enforcement under the Law, but the parents of the child may appeal it within 7 days of notification. The bill introduces an obligation of the Director of the Social Assistance Directorate to send the complaint received by the parent to the court on the day following its receipt. The court is obliged to initiate the administrative case within three days and schedule it within seven days. Short time-limits are also provided for in respect of the conduct of procedural actions in the course of the process, as well as for the judgment of the court. It is explicitly stated that the time limits under the Administrative Procedure Code for the removal of irregularness of the complaint, the submission of a written reply to the complaint, the submission of a conclusion to an expert and the parties' summoning shall not apply. The administrative case shall be dismissed if a decision under art. 28, para. 4 accommodating a child by court order. According to the current version of art. 36d, para. 3 of the Child Protection Act multidisciplinary team under para. 1 shall include, in addition to the social worker, a representative of the Regional Management of the Ministry of Interior, a district inspector, an inspector from a children's pedagogical room or an operative, the District Prosecutor's Office and a representative of the Municipality. At the discretion of the team leader, a representative of the Regional Health Inspectorate, the personal doctor of the child or a representative of the hospital, from which an alert was received on the case, a representative of the Regional Management of Education and of the School, kindergarten or other educational institution and a representative of a social service provider shall be invited. The bill excludes the possibility for a representative of a social service provider to be included in the multidisciplinary team in order to ensure full impartiality and objectivity in deciding on measures to protect a child at risk or a child who is a victim of violence or exploitation. The bill envisions the current National Strategy for Child Protection to be called the National Strategy for Child Protection and Family Protection and the National Program for Child Protection. In this way, the legislator undertakes to take measures and provide for guarantees that the child's raising will take place outside the family only as a last resort, after the completion of all possible legal measures for protection in a family environment. With the changes of art. 28 put an end to the conflicting practice of district courts, and the parent becomes a party to the judicial proceedings for the placement of a child in a family of relatives or relatives, in a foster family and in a social or integrated health and social care service for resident care. With the annulment of para. 1 of art. 138a of the Family Code removes the possibility of the Social Assistance Directorate assigning opinions to a social service provider that serve as a basis for the social report in judicial proceedings in a custody dispute. With these changes, we hope that we will be able to reduce tension on the street and give an answer to people who expect us to change the texts that they are so afraid of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Siddy. On the second bill please, Mrs. Angelova, let us know the reasons.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Social Services Act entered into force on 1 July this year. According to § 43 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law, part of the legislation should be made and entered into force within three months of the entry into force of the Law. In order to avoid blocking the system within this three-month period, it is necessary to make some changes to the CSU regarding time limits. We submit this Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Social Services in order to prevent emptiness in legislation. The main changes are the following: Until the adoption of the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on Social Services, the targeting of all persons for the use of social services financed by the state budget will be carried out only by the Social Assistance Officers and the individual assessment of the needs and individual plan for support of the persons will be drawn up in the current order. Next, the proceedings for establishment, termination, change in the number of users and place of social services will be completed in the current order. Until the adoption of the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on Social Services when requesting prior approval for establishment, change the number of users and the place of provision of social services financed by the state budget, the mayors of municipalities will provide information and documents required by the current order. The State Agency for Child Protection and the Inspectorate of the Agency for Social Assistance will carry out control activities of the provision of social services under the current order. The procedures for licensing private providers of social services financed by the state budget started until the entry into force of the Social Services Act and their registration in the register of the Social Assistance Agency will also be completed in the current order. The municipal competitions for the award of the management of social services delegated by the State to private suppliers will be completed in the current order. Another part of the changes is related to the postponement of the entry into force of the Social Services Act of 1 July this year, which did not postpone the operation of other deadlines which are listed in the law itself. Therefore, it is now necessary to extend the other periods depending on the overall period. These are: - The deadline for the adoption of the National Social Services Card and the related period for financing the Card Services under the new funding standards. It is therefore proposed that both the adoption of the National Social Services Card and the financing of the new standards will coincide with the beginning of budget 2022. Until then, the services will be financed according to the standards developed in the current order. Next, due to a six-month delay in the entry into force of the Social Services Act, it is also necessary to postpone the period for licensing under the terms of the CSU of the previous private suppliers in order to preserve the one-year period initially regulated by the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u21	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. I'm opening the debate. Colleagues, you have a say in this. Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! The Social Services Act was long discussed before then until it reached its consensus adoption in February last year. Needless to comment on the chronology of the events that have led to this deeply needed, long-made, discussed, agreed and consensually adopted law, to lead to serious tensions in society, but this is a fact. Now, only ten or fifteen days after it enters into force, after its six-month delay, there are already two bills to amend and supplement its provisions. It's even weirder that both were imported by the government. One bill is by MPs from the parliamentary group of "United patriots" and the reason for its submission, according to the words of the importers, is the serious social tension that creates part of its provisions. Some of their motives are that the changes made with this bill are part of the protesters' demands. Offering these changes, they believe that this could reduce pressure against the Law. The whole work is to please someone in the case of the protesters against the Law, and not to change substantially the Law itself, as is the wish of the rulers, some of which are the United Patriarchs, i.e. both the wolf sat and the lamb whole. These are the real motives, not those recorded in the Bill. However, I find it a step in the right direction because there is an attempt to eliminate fundamental problems in the Bill that create tension in society. Whether this experience is successful is a completely different matter. In my opinion, it is not. Because a large part of the texts of the Bill are declarative and do not have legal consequences or are contrary to other provisions of the Social Services Act itself, or other laws. For example, in § 1, t. 3 with the newly created para. 4 The provision of social services is not a commercial activity within the meaning of the Commercial Law. What is it? In the whole philosophy of the Law the services are performed against payment, i.e. by definition. Other texts by means of small corrections deserve to be supported by a second vote, if it ever comes to that. The other bill, even though it was signed by MPs, is de facto a Draft Law of the Council of Ministers prepared by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, put into emergency order several hours after the Constitutional Court ruled on the unconstitution of several texts of the Law in order to look at it together with the previously introduced by their coalition partner bill. We are aware that within three months it is necessary to draw up and adopt by the Council of Ministers regulations relating to the Law on Social Services. These are basically the Rules for implementing the Law, the National Social Services Card, the Social Services Quality Agency and so on. However, we are not aware why this was not done in time from January 1st to June 30th? Was this not enough time to be drawn up immediately after the entry into force of the Law and from 1 July to be adopted and to act? And now we are being explained and motivated by the changes in the different deadlines in the Law that this is done so as not to stop the work of providing social services to all those in need, institutional services financed by the state budget, to be provided only by the directorates for social assistance, and individual needs assessments, individual plans to be made in the current order. The most striking thing in this case is that with the envisaged changes in point. 4 to the only paragraph of the Bill, colleagues from GERB change the time limits in § 44, which regulates the financing of social services from the state budget according to the new standards for financing social services and allows them to be financed according to the funding standards developed in the current order. And what extension does it extend until 1 January 2022?! For me, this shows that the necessary finances are not available. By the way, we have told you this since the adoption of the 2020 budget. That there are no funds available to finance activities under the Personal Aid Act and under the Social Services Act. Here again, I must express a surprise that you so fiercely opposed the requested postponement of the entry into force of the Law by at least six more months. You are not ready with regulations, you do not have funding, you press for entry into action and then you change the deadlines for the entry into force of the most important things for the functioning of the Law. And one more thing. The Agency for the Quality of Social Services will not act, which will monitor the quality of social services under the Law and the functions will once again be assigned to the Agency for Social Assistance. The State Agency for Child Protection, which number 30 people, is entrusted with the control functions that the newly established Agency for the Quality of Social Services has to perform, and the social service providers are hundreds. The deadline for adoption of the National Social Services Card is extended from 12 to 18 months. The mayors of the municipalities will decide what services will be needed in the municipalities without a decision of the municipal councils. The time limit for the licensing of suppliers shall be extended until 1 July 2021. Everything at least another year and a half will go according to the current order, which makes people wonder why it was actually this stubbornness at all costs to enter into force the Law of 1 July this year. I'm not going to go on with the substance, but I'm going to say two more things that you need to think about as a ruling majority. First of all, why this pushing and haste, after the National Assembly adopted a decision on a single question by the United People's Republic of Bulgaria to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy? I'll remind you of that. Within four months, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy shall prepare and present to the National Assembly an analysis of the legislation in force in the field of social assistance. Here my question is: how are you going to do an analysis yet, and you are proposing changes without getting into this analysis? The second point of the decision is: Within six months, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy shall present to the National Assembly a draft Code of Social Support to unite the overall state policy in this sphere. So, now we are making changes that will hardly be in favor of this legal act you are preparing to make, or, as a Bulgarian proverb says: Do not act as if the Constitutional Court has not spoken and has not declared three of the provisions of the Law unconstitutional! This requires a qualitative new approach to the Social Services Act, not changes per piece. It is a good decision for an analysis that you have passed as a decision of the National Assembly in the legislation on social assistance, social protection, to unite into a single bill. Look at the Law on Child Protection, the Family Code, the Law on Protection from Domestic Violence, the Law on Pre-school and School Education in the context of declared unconstitutional texts and to make a good Code of Social Support, not to clothe this law in any way. The last thing I would like to say is that, with colleagues from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, we are working on a bill to amend and supplement the Social Services Act, not so much to say that we have contributed to the whole process under this law, but because we suspect that when this Code of Social Protection is made, you will carry everything from the Social Services Act in it mechanically and will not comply with proposals that will be made then. We will not be in a hurry to submit this amendment and supplement bill, but we will decide whether or not to make some changes to the bill between the first and second votes. I urge you to think about what you are doing under the Social Services Act. It is clear that now these things that are in the two bills, because they belong to the ruling majority, will pass. I don't think you're gonna stop there, because there's a lot more problems under the Social Services Act that you're gonna be struggling with again, in a piece, fixing. Leave all things until at least this analysis of social legislation is done! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, I am provoked to take a reply in relation to your speech, which was absolutely incorrect, starting from there, with delaying the entry into force of the Social Services Act by six months. Your parliamentary group also supported the postponement of the entry into force of the Social Services Act. I would like to remind you that only the DPS parliamentary group did not support this, so your speech is absolutely incorrect. With regard to the time limits for the drafting of regulations, you are obviously not familiar either. Under-laws related to the Social Services Act are worked by an expert group of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Even the Rules of Procedure of the Agency for the Quality of Social Services, which is uploaded for public consultation on July 8th, is ready. As stated in the Social Services Act, all other regulations are adopted by the Council of Ministers within three months. There is no way to draft a legislative act and to be adopted by the Council of Ministers before the Law enters into force. I know that you, for so many years in the National Assembly, already know the matter in terms of social assistance and social services, but obviously you are not speaking expertly at the moment, but looking for the political scandal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u25	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Second line? I can't see. Mr. Gyokov, come on in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Mrs. Angelova, I don't know how you're not provoked by anything else from my entire statement, and you're provoked by some things that are in your head to say them here? [[Laughter from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] I think my whole speech and speaking out of the stands was absolutely well-meaning, and in the direction of making things better, not doing things in a piece, but you provoke some things that I didn't even think about. I never claimed that we didn't support the procrastination of the Law. Yeah, we backed him up! In all your speech, if you were listening carefully, this is what I was saying: that despite the delay of six months, you insisted on entering from July 1st and did not support the new postponement, and now you are delaying half of the texts, which are extremely important for the entry into force of various things, which are extremely important for the functioning of the Law, that is, we leave everything in the current order, but otherwise we have a Social Services Act! You say that the Agency's Rules of Procedure are ready, which will classify the services or license them. That's very good. But I ask you, and you say, "Did you know that after the entry into force three months?" But the law was passed last February, I wanted to remind you. It's July next year, 2020 now. For this year and how many months had to be prepared and the Rules of Implementation of the Law, and the Rules of Procedure of the Agency you provide, and all rules to be written and even discussed. And if you want to follow any parliamentary practice, they should be ready, and now from 1 July, after the Law has entered into force, you should apply them. Because there, in the Law, it does not say that they will enter in three months, but it says:....... within three months.................................................................... And you just did it after a year and a half?! Mrs. Angelova, I don't know, I think you should listen to what the opposition has to say for once! Because in three and a half years you didn't, and now you don't, but you make big mistakes. That's why people are so excited outside. I'm sorry to bring up the protests outside, but what you're doing here is provoking people. You're not the most right person in the world. You can't be right at all! So listen to what they're saying and don't do anything I won't say nonsense but things that aren't acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. [[Milko Nedyalkov from BSP for Bulgaria is requesting a procedure.]] Procedure in the manner of conduct or simple procedure? Here you are, Mr. Nedyalkov, to do your procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u28	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Please, on my behalf and on behalf of the Members of the National Assembly, invite a representative of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to be in the Chamber and to answer some of the questions. Madam President, it is a little strange for me, as a Member of the National Assembly, for another Member of the National Assembly to answer from the point of view of the Ministry of Questions put here, for his work, for what is fulfilled and what is not implemented by the Law. A Member of the National Assembly cannot answer from the point of view of a ministry. So invite them in!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u29	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. Mr. Ademov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u30	Thank you, Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Two draft laws are of our attention. Both are for amendment and addition to the Social Services Act. Let us first see the factual situation around the two bills. At the end of last year, the entry into force of the Social Services Act was postponed and the Law practically entered into force from 1 July 2020 instead of the beginning of the year. Secondly, a decision of the Constitutional Court came out a few days ago, which annulled several of the texts of the Social Services Act. Next, I would like to say a few words about what is currently being proposed with these bills. The position of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms on this bill is clear. We were the only parliamentary group to insist that the Social Services Act entered from 1 January 2020, as foreseen when it was adopted in March 2019. Unfortunately, this was not adopted. The delay was accepted by six months, during which consultations had to be held, public discussions had to be made, but in relation to the coronacrisis these things did not happen. Why am I saying all this? Because at the moment, the proposed by the United People's Law aims to reduce the tensions that exist in society from the perspective of some of the texts in the Social Services Act. But let us say a few words about the structure of the proposed bill. Dear colleagues, what did you offer? Only two paragraphs that concern the Social Services Act, and how much it concerns it, is a very separate topic. And in the transitional provisions in eight positions you change the Law on Child Protection, you change the Family Code in art. 138a. Well, you can safely offer a bill of amendment and supplement to the Child Protection Act. Why are you proposing changes to the Social Services Act? What do you change in social services? There is a Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the You were one of those who criticised that the Law on Social Services in the Transitional and Final Regulations changed 29 laws. Is that right? That was your position. Now what are you doing? You want to change the Social Services Act, you offer two paragraphs, at the same time you offer eight positions that change the Child Protection Act, which means that the real problems in family policy, in child policy, in social services policy is not in the Social Services Act, but in other laws, something that we repeated several times by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Next, what do you actually propose as a change in the Social Services Act? You claim that you are establishing protection of family, maternity and children, elderly people and people with disabilities. I understand that this is how you emphasize, strengthen family policies, the relationship between family and children, which is good. However, the Social Services Act does not divide beneficiaries by family, by gender, gender, race and so on. The Social Services Act is a universal law. It proposes supportive measures for those who need support. They need support from families, they need support from children, they can have people with disabilities, older people and so on and so forth. The Bulgarian legislation in this field is fragmented. And it was no accident that the National Assembly adopted a decision to codify this matter in order to bring together the whole social sphere related to supporting measures, if you will, for protection. Next, what do you suggest? You offer social services, you explicitly stress, not to be a trade deal, let's call it, generally speaking. But in the Commercial Law in art. 1 It is stated which are the services that are within the scope of the Commercial Law. There are no social services between them. Why should we emphasize it in this law? And the next thing you're suggesting is the individual assessment of a child, the individual support plan for a child, the information is provided with the consent of the parent or guardian. We should note that social services are not mandatory unless they are a measure of child protection. Social services are optional. In order for the team to make an individual assessment of needs, an individual support plan, it must be armed with information. If there is no information, this team cannot offer the best measures to protect the child. So if the parent disagrees with providing all information about the child's condition to this multidisciplinary team because this team under the Social Services Act has the opportunity to receive online information, e.g. from TELK, from the National Insurance Institute, from the Agency for Persons with Disabilities and so on, not to list all institutions, if the parent does not agree, he may personally deliver the documents, the information that is required by him. There's no obstacle! In other words, everything you offer as a change in the Social Services Act is exhausted. The other measures are measures in the Child Protection Act. Then again, I ask the question: why do you want to amend the Law on Social Services and not change the Law on Child Protection? Make it a Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Child Protection Act. Then we will also be in agreement with the texts of the Law on Legislative Acts. What do you suggest, let's see, in the Child Protection Act? Yes, the aim is to provide more intensive protection to the parent whose child is placed outside the family by order of the Director of Social Assistance and that is to protect the rights of the parent as well. This is a good measure that can be adopted, and I agree to be supported because the parent is also part of the family and the basic idea of the Bulgarian society in general and the legislation is that children should be raised in the family and only exceptionally when the life, health of the child is threatened, only then to impose protection measures, notice, under judicial control. And one more thing, you are proposing a change in procedural deadlines, you are proposing the right of compensation to the parent when it comes to issuing an order to the director of the Social Assistance Directorate, from 14 days to reduce to 7 days. Why are you doing this? Did you know that there are lawyers in your group, the time limits are subject to the Administrative Procedure Code? Why will you change procedural deadlines in the Child Protection Act, and what does a parent gain from reducing the appeal period from 14 to 7 days? Well, within the remaining 7 days, he may receive additional information to benefit his appeal. So all these issues are extremely important and I think they need to find a place in the final texts of the Social Services Act. Regarding the Bill of colleagues from GERB. Well, if it hadn't been delayed the entry into force of the Law by six months, there would be no need for these texts that are currently being proposed. You, colleagues, have proposed that the colleagues from the Volya be absent, they have proposed that the entry into force of the Social Services Act be extended by another six months, that is, to enter from 1 January 2021. Thank God that the National Assembly rejected this proposal because then more deadlines would be confused. Because within three months the Council of Ministers cannot issue a regulation under the Law on Social Services, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy cannot issue all these rules of procedure for the Agency, for the quality of social services, the Rules for Implementation of the Law on Social Services. This map of social services is not possible within... although there are other opinions, but all this is also related to a budgetary procedure and cannot be combined and it is therefore more right to postpone the adoption of this card by one year, so that there can be correlation between funding, because the budgetary procedure is a year-to-year and the drawing up of the Social Services Map for the financing of state delegated activities when it comes to social services. In conclusion, honourable Members, what you are proposing is that I turn to the United Patriarchs, I know that you want to meet public expectations, I know that the protest from the street bothers you, I know that you want to in some way seek political legitimacy through social legislation, believe me, I have experience in this activity, the social system never leads to the extraction of political dividends. Remember that! Why? Because in social policy, we can never achieve justice at a hundred percent. The most important issue is to achieve less injustice. If that's what you're trying to do, I'm willing to support you. But what I see cannot be supported, and therefore our parliamentary group will abstain on both projects.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Mitev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Ademov, I take a few points in your speech that I cannot agree with. First, as regards the Commercial Law and its article. 1. Article 1 of the Commercial Law does not list trade transactions in full. At its end, at the end of this provision, it is said that the trader can conclude other transactions that are permitted by the Law. And in this sense is also the proposal that we have made in the Social Services Act. As regards the procedural time limits in the Social Services Act, they are special in terms of the time limits that are in the Administrative Procedure Code, which are common. The administrative procedure code governs general administrative proceedings, having special rules in multiple laws, not only in the Social Services Act, for example in the Social Assistance Act, in the Social Security Code. You are well aware there are also special deadlines and special proceedings, compared to the general one set out in the Administrative Procedure Code. Finally, as regards the general criticism of the implementation and compliance with the Law on Legislative Acts. There is no obstacle in the Law on Legislative Acts when we have related provisions in other laws to amend them through Transitional and Final Provisions and this is a permanent legislative practice and technique, it can be said, for at least 30 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u33	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u34	Dear Mr. Ademov, unfortunately, what you, as a motive, pointed out in order not to support our bill, is a kind of case studies for me. They drifted from nine ravines of water to say, "But we will abstain, although that is good and that is good, and the other we do not understand." Well, that's what I heard, especially about parental policies. I have no doubt that the DPS will not support this bill simply because the DPS as a liberal formation is part of this constant change of our social legislation to the detriment of the family and in favour of individual rights. Our effort is in the opposite direction. We believe that the family is a fundamental structural unit of society and it must be supported in every way. It is precisely the lack of this balance in the Law on Social Services and in the Law on Child Protection that you are right is the reason why we submitted this bill. But in the Social Services Act, we actually change philosophy. We bet an ideology, if you will, which is important, but those who have studied law know what this is about. In the Family Code there are many texts that are related to morals, values, and not with a specific legal application. This is not an exception for Bulgarian law. And for us that is fundamental, that is what is important, and that is why this is the main part of the Law, and the other part is attached to it as the implementation of this philosophy. There is no way such a proposal could be unsupported, such an approach at least because all these texts that we are changing have been amended precisely by the Social Services Act. In this regard, you, of course, as a group, have the right to form an opinion, but somehow your arguments were absolutely inconclusive and I could not help but share it with you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. Third line? Here you are, Mr. Bogdanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u36	Dear Mr. Ademov, I will object in one part of your speech. Colleagues have already mentioned what concerns legal arguments. I don't think there's any reason to claim that we're acting under pressure on the streets, protests or dissatisfied parents. Firstly, I see nothing wrong with having a dialogue with the interested party. These are ultimately all Bulgarian citizens who are subject, subject to this law and are interested to have an opinion. And secondly, this model is our long-term policy. We have always argued to limit the possibility for NGOs to participate in the provision of social services, even more on such a delicate topic as the Bulgarian family and the Bulgarian children, we have always claimed that, even less their role in bringing children out of the family on unclear criteria with vague arguments. So this is our clear policy, and I don't think you have any reason to argue... [[(Reply by MPs Milko Nedyalkov:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u37	Please, Mr. Nedyalkov. Here you go, Mr. Ademov. Colleagues, please! You have the right to speak from the stand.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, colleagues, for the lines. They made it clear that in no way do you change philosophy or anything in the Social Services Act with the proposed texts. Firstly, it is not true at all that the Law on Social Services in the Transitional Provisions has changed texts from the Law on Child Protection. The only change there is related to the definition of a child at risk. You know that very well. The definition of a child at risk is addressed in the Child Protection Act only in the part where children with disabilities are excluded, because there is no way for children with disabilities to be children at risk. We have ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Next, nowhere in the legislation.. and in the Social Services Act, there is not a word for taking children away from the family. There's no such thing! Who told you that? Tell me a text in the Social Services Act, where it is at all about taking children away from the family? Protection measures, including in emergency situations, when it comes to child abuse, when it comes to beating, prostitution and so on, are described in the Child Protection Act and not in the Social Services Act. It is stated precisely and clearly what are the conditions, what is the judicial procedure for taking children out of the family, and only when the health and life of children are at stake. Next, honourable Members, I repeat, the Social Services Act has caused tensions in society, divided society precisely because of the ignorance of the Social Services Act. If in detail you look at what is written there, the Social Services Act is a Law that gives people the opportunity to support so that they can overcome the risk of social exclusion so that they can overcome barriers to cope on their own. This is the philosophy of the Social Services Act. And everything else that has to do with child protection, with family policies, we have legislation that governs family policies, you said part of them, the Family Code, the Family Aid Act for Children, the Social Security Code, not to list all the legislation that is in support of the family. The family is an integral part of the social cell of society, and no one denies this thing.. neither the Social Services Act nor any law. If you believe that somewhere in the legislation there is such separation of family, parents, children, texts that divide the strength of the Bulgarian family, say it, change these texts, but I claim that there are no such texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. Mr. Vigenin, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will start by saying that it is really a pity that there is no representative of the Ministry today and an expectation of the big renovation of the government, which is about to be dismantled and the Minister of Labour and Social Policy. Since all the work, the whole work of the government, and the majority in parliament under the Social Services Act, shows a dramatic inability to assess the problems in this law and to seek some agreement, consensus in society on it. This is one of the laws by which legislation cannot develop confrontationally, to see deep gaps in some of the texts and policies being proposed, and at the same time to do nothing to seek some form of agreement on them, and she, I assure you, is possible. Today's discussion is yet another proof that the Social Services Act is unthinkable that from the very beginning the approach to it has been wrong, and the series of errors since the end of last year continue, and I suppose we will soon come to new changes. After all, a large part of the texts in this law will have to be changed or cancelled or postponed. Again, this is a helplessness that people who need these services really don't deserve. I regret that last year, I stress, we have supported the postponement of the entry into force of the Law, but we have supported it with the expectation and understanding that the Minister of Labour and Social Policy will try to find these intersections between the various groups in society who have expressed respect for this law and we, as a parliamentary group, have made efforts to do so. Unfortunately, it turned out that Minister Sacheva from the very beginning had no intention of seeking such consent, and the delay was an attempt to mislead society and to get this bill into the form in which it was proposed. We have been working on this subject, we have held meetings on the ground, we have had a very broad discussion here in the Bulgarian Parliament with over 30 organizations that relate to this bill, where there was a really meaningful conversation between the extreme supporters, the extreme opponents and it was seen that there are such intersections. We have referred to the Constitutional Court as we have seen that some of the organizations have reasonable suspicions of a large part of the texts in the Law and the Constitutional Court has confirmed, although in part, that at least in several of the texts this law is unconstitutional. What will Minister Sacheva say about this matter that he claimed and the government itself that there is no such problem? And today, part of the ruling coalition, the Patriots, are proposing changes to a text which, if I am not mistaken, has already been declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court. We believe that your approach to at least me is incomprehensible. I'm not a man who's worked in this field. Yes, I've read a lot, there are, of course, specialists here, but the management approach to me is incomprehensible. On the one hand, we decide which, as it is said, is a delusion of society, that within four months an analysis will be carried out and a social code will be proposed, which will include all the legislation, and if this can happen in four months, we say it can't, but you have made a decision, so it has to happen, why is it now necessary in this law, which should be part of this new social code, to adopt any deadlines that are in a year and a half? What is the point of these deadlines in a year and a half, and perhaps there will be a new bill, a new code in which all of this will be there and then we have to think about possible adoption of new deadlines for some of the texts? In general, this approach is really incomprehensible, these patches, these constant proposals, blurring people's eyes, and in fact some of the main problems remain unaddressed again, both in the Law of the United Patriarchs, as well as by the proposals made by the government. First, I will list a few of them and we will probably make these proposals between first and second readings and, hopefully, mind will prevail, but a few seemingly small things that would calm some of the Bulgarian society, which with reasonable suspicion looks to this bill. For example, I will only say a few of the things that we are thinking about, the licensing of service providers in our view should apply to all, regardless of the scope and duration of the services they provide, either for sale or temporary. The award of social services to private suppliers should take place not with the mayor's decision, with the mayor's award, but with a decision of the municipal council, because then the filter becomes more serious. In our view, private service providers should not participate in the advices provided by the Law to municipalities, which give recommendations for social services policy. Yes, it makes sense that non-governmental organisations, I stress, it is in the public interest to be part of these advices, but not private service providers, as they have a particular private interest in needing a wider scope of social services, as they will be paid for this. In addition, the Bill provides that private suppliers who do not develop social services financed by the budget should be in a notification regime, i.e. to notify the mayor and not to receive permission from the mayor, which we believe should also be corrected. I conclude with this, it is absolutely right Mr. Ademov that some of the problems are not in this law, but are in the Law on Child Protection. We are not opening the discussion on the Child Protection Act now, as we believe a very careful analysis is needed. This is very sensitive matter, and there must be a really broad discussion before we move on to concrete changes in this bill in the Child Protection Act, but also our understanding is that there is a need for a review and revision of the philosophy of politics, and in this regard I hope that this, whether the next Parliament will very soon have to take up and really work seriously on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Let's do a procedure before then. There'll be a line. I'm sorry I'm a little out of order. The procedure is to extend the time, fellow Members, if you don't mind, so the debate can go both ways, and we will continue with lines to Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal to extend the work of the National Assembly today in relation to the legislative part until the vote on item two of the adopted agenda this morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u43	And immediately after that, let's continue with parliamentary control. Please vote on the procedure so made. They voted 115 MPs: for 92, against 1, abstention 22. The motion is accepted. Here's a line for Mr. Vigenin's statement. There are no lines. A statement? Here you go, Mr. Siddy. I'm sorry, Mr. Siddy, Mrs. Jeleva was before you. Mrs. Zheleva, I will only allow myself to read two messages that I missed at the beginning, and it is important that they be read in order for the process to go on. Messages: Yesterday, on 16 July 2020, it was received and sent to the MPs a general bill amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration of Bills adopted on the first vote on 16 July 2020. The draft was drafted by the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government on the grounds of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. On 15 July 2020, the National Assembly received a copy of Decision No 9 of 14 July 2020 of the Constitutional Court on Constitutional Case No 3 of 2020. By its Decision the Constitutional Court declared as unconstitutional provisions of art. 81, para. Art. 1, art. Art. 87, Art. 116, para. 1, t. 3 and 7 of the Social Services Act. Here you go, Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u44	Madam President, honourable Members! With the changes you are proposing in the Social Services Act, the tension that has been created on this subject will not be suppressed, as the importers have said, on the contrary. And I don't understand why, for this reason, you're in a hurry, because what you're proposing is just some cosmetic changes. Yes, with some of the suggestions of fellow Patriots, I can agree, but we will look at them in more detail between first and second readings, but on the one hand, others oppose other laws, colleagues. A moment ago, the President read an announcement to the Constitutional Court. I do not understand why in this way you hastened and now on the agenda comes as an emergency point this topic, rather than waiting to be proposed and those members who the Constitutional Court decided were unconstitutional. These articles, which we just heard, are nowhere reflected, except for one, and this is the main topic. What you are proposing is not responding to the demands of the people outside, to those who oppose this law. And second of all, I'm moving on to the different texts that you're proposing. One part of them is related to extending the scope of the deadlines and this proves my main speech during the first reading that these deadlines are too short and will not be able to cope with the Ministry, and thus the municipalities. There was great concern on the part of the municipalities, there was also an opinion of the National Association of Municipalities that the municipalities would not cope with their so-called additional commitments and this became evident with the proposed changes. The other, which is very important, I believe that one of the best hypotheses and the best proposal in this law is the National card and the new financing of social services or the so-called new standards and additional standards to them, which will improve the pay and quality of social services. What do we do now? We extend it by another year, this will happen in 2020. Until then, social services will be financed in the current order. With what will this solve problems in the social sphere? With what will these proposals be able to improve the pay of social workers, the quality of social services, the lack of qualified personnel? These proposals will not solve these problems, which are at the heart of social policy. Finally, I would like to conclude by saying that, in fact, the main one, as I have started, the demands of the citizens are gone. These are technical changes, cosmetic changes and licensing of private suppliers, which is the main concern of the people here, is not reflected either the so-called privatization of the social service or its conversion into business. There is no harm in having private suppliers to do this service with their own resources, with private funds, but when financed by the state, there should be better control. I don't see such suggestions here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u45	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jeleva. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Siddy, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I have listened to the debate so far and I am under the impression that BSP and DPS are against these changes. The DPS made their views quite clear, although I find it difficult to agree with it, because yes, we are changing through the Social Services Act and the Child Protection Act, but it has been changed as well as many other laws that have been amended precisely by the Child Protection Act. The Social Services Act put people on the street, we heard their demands, we talked to them many times. There are many different requests from amendments to the current law in force, until the Law was repealed in full, so a few weeks ago, by a decision of the National Assembly, we obliged the Ministry to do an analysis and then to draw up a Code of Social Services, with which this Law on Social Services should actually be repealed and a whole new code should be written into which all this fragmented legislation should enter. From colleagues who speak from BSP, I was able to understand that you have your bill. It's important to know, obviously. You declare that you have one, we haven't seen it yet, but you have told us in detail what is in it. You say how you will not support our bill, but you will make proposals between first and second readings. I don't understand that. If you really want to have a debate on the subject, support this bill, we are ready to have a conversation between first and second readings, and then these suggestions of yours that you declare you have, to include them, if they are good, in the final text of the Law. The second thing, you say, why are we in a hurry? We are in a hurry because people on the street want to change and repeal the Social Services Act. That's what people want. Since we agree with the thesis that by canceling the Social Services Act, there will be a legal vacuum in this area, so we have dealt with the annulment by codification, and a change of the Law until the new code enters into force. That is why we are in a hurry, because the Law has been in force since July 1st, and people's fears could happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Siddy. - What's the line? I can't see. Mrs. Klisurska, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! At our attention are proposed two bills to amend and supplement the Law on Social Services. Allow me before I approach each and every one of them and on these proposals that my fellow Members have made, to say a few important things. I thank the National Representative Hasan Ademov, who returned the factology of the process of establishing the Law on Social Services until his adoption, but I will return a little further back the ribbon. Since 2013, there has been talk of a new Social Services Act. The concept of the Law on Social Services has been developed since 2016. In 2017, 2018, 2019 a process was under way to establish this whole new law. In March of last year, he was admitted to the National Assembly, but, to my great regret, some of the texts created tensions in the Bulgarian society. With today's date, a year and three months later, we are offered a proposal by the MPs from GERB, asking for a delay in the preparation of the legislative framework in view that a postponement from 1 January now by 1 July will make it impossible for the new standards to be introduced in the middle of next year to be created the National Social Services Card. Dear colleagues of GERB, your proposal anyone who looks at it will see that this is not a proposal of MPs, it is a proposal of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Why does the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy make such a proposal? For me, it's incompetence and inaction on their part. In the Law adopted last year, in § 43 we have within the 3-month period since the entry into force of the Law to be prepared under the legal framework. I believe that there was a year and a half period within which the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, after the entry into force of the Law, could have put all the projects under the law into effect. I am extremely sorry that there is no Minister of Labour and Social Policy in this House right now to ask these questions to her. The other day, when we examined the two bills in the Committee on Labour and Social Policy, there was a representative - Deputy Minister Zornitsa Rusinova, but unfortunately, we did not get adequate answers. The essence of this GERB proposal is currently linked to the financing, and I say, as last time we looked at the issue of the creation of a whole new Code of Social Protection, that we have been in the process of creating a good legislation for six years, because, you know, 47 Bulgarian municipalities are currently not providing any social service?! Unfortunately, the standards that are currently in place are extremely low, and social services cannot respond with that much needed quality to the needs of the people who need it. Unfortunately, the significant increase in the number of social services offered in the community, their volume is not able to cover existing needs. And what do we do? We put off another year and a half of these problems, but in no way did we partially respond to any of the people's concerns. We, representatives of the BSP, submitted a proposal to the Constitutional Court for certain texts for which there was tension in society. The Constitutional Court ruled and a few days ago came up with a decision that art. Art. 81, Art. Art. 87, Art. 116 are contrary to the basic constitutional provisions. Here, from this tribune, I will respond to the representatives of the United Patriarchs who are making their proposal. Honourable Members, some of your proposals really respond to the tensions and what society wants from us as MPs, with certain texts, but I have considerations and I believe that colleagues from the BSP for Bulgaria and in this regard this is our position to abstain. It relates to the amendments you propose under the Child Protection Act and, in particular, to contesting the order for temporary accommodation in administrative order. The procedural deadlines you are introducing and their reduction is an extremely serious issue, which I think should be argued by the Ministry of Justice as to how these deadlines should be introduced. Unfortunately, we in the Committee on Labour and Social Policy did not receive an answer from the Ministry of Justice. I very much hope to get one in time between first and second readings. This 7-day period that you propose so that the child's parents can appeal, very often in legal practice, very often in procedural procedures is even extended. Our hypotheses to abstain on your proposal are not related to the argument that some of your proposals are not good or are not in the direction of dissipating the tensions in society, but to certain texts that concern with their procedural deadlines. Dear Members of the National Assembly, as a conclusion I will say one thing: what is happening at the moment shows the carelessness, inactivity and incompetence of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Two weeks ago, we, fellow Members of the National Assembly, made a decision to cover the whole fragmented legislation with which we cover the problems in the field of social services. We can legislate for years, as you can see, I have said since when we legislate in this area, but the problems of people who need social services are not solved. It is our duty to decide that this legislation, which we must adopt here in this House, must be fast, effective, because it is not only for people who need social protection, but also for those social workers who are currently working on the minimum wage we have put them in this situation. And delaying the deadlines, Mrs. Angelova, because I see that you are leading in GERB's proposal, is also related to delaying the standards, and these standards are related to better remuneration, better maintenance of social services in Bulgaria. In this regard, it is also our attitude to the proposals made so. As my fellow Members have said, we will abstain on both proposals. Our parliamentary group has proposals that it will make for a second reading, and they are related to the fears of the people, and to the texts that the Constitutional Court has now declared unconstitutional because it will create a legal vacuum and in our hands is what needs to happen in this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Are there any lines? I can't see. Here's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u50	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Klisurska, I take the floor for a personal explanation because I was affected in your speech, which was absolutely not correct because the things that you mentioned in the statement do not correspond to the truth. You're looking for the scandal, you're looking for the spicy, you're looking for the political effect. However, this cannot happen because the truth of our bill, which we have introduced several MPs from GERB's parliamentary group, is for an extension only of the National Social Services Card and funding according to the new standards and not of the regulations. Clearly, for so many years in the National Assembly, you have not learned that the regulation is made after the entry into force of a certain law within three months. There is no way under the legal framework to be made and adopted by the Council of Ministers before any law is entered. [[Voices: "Bravo!" and applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Mrs. Zhelyazkova, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Today we are looking at two bills to amend and supplement the Social Services Act. I understand the desire of colleagues to suggest that the situation with the Social Services Act is problematic, but please do not make such statements. Between the extension of time and delay, there's a huge difference that each of us, I guess, understands. The same thing my colleague Svetlana Angelova said, we as MPs should know that the adoption of the regulation only happens after the law has entered into force and the Social Services Act has entered into force since 1 July this year. We in the parliamentary group of the Political Party GERB realise the importance of the amendments that we have proposed and will support the two laws at first reading, because it is important in an adequate way to settle all proceedings arising from the entry into force from 1 July this year of the Law. The main changes we propose concern the order and manner of application of the cases under the current legislation pending the adoption of the Rules for Implementation of the Law on Social Services and the adoption of the Rules of Procedure of the Agency for Quality of Social Services, which is already uploaded for public consultation. As we all know, the purpose of the Law is to provide support to all Bulgarian citizens. With it, we introduce a better regulation and quality control of social services. For this purpose, it is necessary to accept the proposed synchronization we are currently doing. The creation of the National Social Services Card will ensure that there will be no free market for services. In order to be able to start these activities, it is necessary to adopt by the Council of Ministers a Regulation on the planning of social services. The procedure itself for the adoption of the National Card by the Council of Ministers will also be a minimum of two months. In view of the need for public consultation and compliance with legal requirements, if the time limit for the Map is not extended, municipalities will have to carry out analyses and develop proposals within about three months. On the other hand, the funds for social services are bet in the State Budget Act and there is no way to start financing new standards from the middle of the year, i.e. 1 July 2021. Therefore, it is proposed that both the adoption of the Map and the financing under the new standards coincide with the beginning of budget 2022. Until then the services will be financed according to the standards developed in the current order. There will be regulations in the public resource and will be directed only where there is a need. The emphasis on the development of the people working in the social sphere is also an important topic laid down in the Social Services Act, so support the proposals so that we can start a reform in the sector, which concerns not only the people in need, but also the whole Bulgarian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Iron. - What's the line? Two lines, and a statement for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u54	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Zhelyazkova, I take account of what you said about procedural deadlines. Each of us or anyone who knows, § 43 of the Social Services Act regulates the regulatory framework which must be adopted within three months. But both Mrs. Zhelyazkova, you and the previous Mrs. Angelova, and I mention you by name because you probably didn't read your Law, in § 43 it says, "In a three-month period since the entry into force of the law, which means that the Law on 1 July entered into force, within three months this sub-legal legal framework can be adopted. There's no telling what day of the third month this thing is going to happen. The other thing you are doing at the moment in your proposal: it is really related to the standards, it is really related to the National Card. Unfortunately for me, everything goes with the regulation. Unfortunately for me, this delay that you are currently proposing is a year and a half. There is nothing to prevent anything in the middle of the next budget year with an update of the budget, once the new standards are adopted, from giving the necessary breath to those people who work in the field of social services to start getting some higher wages from the middle of next year. Yeah, but no! We cannot afford for this area to increase the remuneration of people, increase the standard, provide social services where they are not. And don't say we're raising public tensions right now. On the contrary, we are trying in some way to balance this tension.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u55	Thank you. Mr. Gokov, the line. You don't have much time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u56	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Zhelyazkova, you say that we are somehow raising tension with what we are saying and with our attitude towards both laws. Now I'm going to ask you a few questions that I'm going to ask you to answer. First, you want support from all the parliamentary groups for your bills. Just look what you're doing. First, you put it on the 14th. Before noon, the Constitutional Court ruled on the appeal for unconstitutional status. It declared three of the texts unconstitutional. You, on the afternoon of July 14, Tuesday, enter your bill. On 15 July the Committee on Labour and Social Policy is viewed, and on 17 July it is already in the Chamber and you want support and consensus. By asking for support and consensus, this is how the bill is introduced, talks are held, opinions from various organizations that work in this sphere are sought................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Did you do this to ask for support? Mrs. Zhelyazkova, did you know that there has already been a complaint in the Committee on Complaints of Citizens against the actions you have taken? That you are not giving an opportunity to such an important moment, which creates extreme tension in society, to spend it again in some way.. We are in a hurry until the end of the session! What's the rush?! Why, if you want support, didn't you discuss it with the people you wanted support from? If you want to calm the tension, why didn't you look for those who are tense by your suggestions to make a conversation with them, and you brought it in? And many more questions, but I don't see how much time left.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u57	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u58	But I am very quick to ask you the question: how does your proposal fit into the context of the new Code of Social Support that you are preparing, and how do we understand your attitude towards the Constitutional Court's decision in your speech?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u59	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mrs. Zhelyazkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u60	Dear Mr. Chairman! Ms. Klisurska, first of all, I would mention that currently a working group created by experts from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy are developing regulations and they will be adopted within three months, as by law. Secondly, there is no way for funding to start in the middle of the year, because this means in the future that an update of the budget will have to be provided. In order to be able to guarantee security, we have also made these proposals. Mr. Gokov, the Constitutional Court's decisions have nothing to do with our proposals. As you know, they do not comment, and our proposals have nothing to do with the texts that have been cancelled. That's why I can't figure out how both you and the non-speakers keep mentioning these decisions. They are a fact and automatically the texts fall away from the law itself. I suppose you know it better than I do, as a man who has more parliamentary experience. There is a Commission manual that calls for meetings. They don't schedule meetings with the importers. We are importers, we have made our proposals and they are only for an easier way to work so that we can meet the needs of the bill itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Iron. Mrs. Pesheva, you have a say in this.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u62	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First, I'd like to start with the so-called subnormal system. Well, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy was ready for the Law to enter into force from 1 January 2020. My question is: once they know that it is postponed and will enter on 1 July, what have they been doing for half a year and couldn't they prepare during this time this subnormal arrangement so that it can be imported here as soon as possible? Secondly, the citizens' request ultimately does not correspond at all with the whole ideology of this law. I really don't know why they make these patches right now.! There is a ruling of the Constitutional Court in which three members are unconstitutional. You put literally hours after the Constitutional Court's decision changes that are seen the next day in the Commission. Excuse me, you say it's not up to the importers, but our proposal, which was to postpone, has been waiting for him for more than two months to join the Commission. There is no way that the next day is immediately in the Commission and is already in the Chamber without any possibility to discuss it, discussed with experts and with the people who are ultimately expecting an adequate service, expect adequate legislation from us, so that we can respond to their demands and needs. This is absolutely not happening right now. I do not believe that such patches can completely alter the attitudes of people, most of whom want to abolish the Law. Where is the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy currently representing this important issue? I mean, we can't, like we ourselves voted two weeks ago, or how much it was, for the development of a Code of Social Protection. What do we do now? Some deadlines are postponed for a year and a half, within six months the Ministry has to work out the code in question. You mean what are we doing? Patches of one law! In six months, we're gonna be doing another one where this one will eventually be included. Is that what we do? Is that what people deserve? We will not support both bills. Thank you. [[Applause from the Bulgarian Rhodolists.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Pesheva. You have the floor, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u64	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! [[Noise and lines. Awesome.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u65	Guys, can you keep it down?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u66	Dear Mrs. Pesheva! What I mean to say is that when you talked about the regulatory framework, you had to remind the MPs Decree No 833 of 1974 on the implementation of the Law on Legislative Acts. What he says: The draft of the Act on Implementation of the Law is drawn up together with the Law and is adopted within the period of the entry of the Law into force.............................................................................................................................................................. With today's date, the entire regulatory framework under the Social Services Act should have been on the Public Consultation Portal, but the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has not done its job. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) Replies from GERB.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u67	Thank you. Another line? I won't. A hole? No douche. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. We will vote on the bill in the order of their entry. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Social Services, No 54-01-55, submitted by the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. Vote 158 MPs: 97 against 8, abstention 53. The bill has been passed. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Social Services, No 054-01-71, submitted by the National Representative Svetlana Naydenova and a group of MPs. Vote 156 MPs: 96 against 5, abstention 55. The motion is accepted. Go ahead, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am making a procedure to reduce the deadline for proposals between the first and second votes of the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration to three days.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u69	Thank you. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Nenkov. Vote 142 MPs: 93, against 42, abstention 7. Let's continue with: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR ANIMAL TREATMENT. Report from the Committee on Agriculture and Foods Mrs. Dimova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please, procedure for the admission of associate Dr. Janko Ivanov to Deputy Minister at the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, and Dr. Petya Petkova Director of the Department of Agricultural Chain Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u71	I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 83 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Invite the guests.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u72	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill amending and supplementing the Animal Health Act, No 054-01-70, submitted by the National Representative Irena Dimova and a group of MPs on 10 July 2020. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 14 July 2020, discussing the quoted bill. In the work of the Commission took part from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests: Assoc.Professor Dr. Yanko Ivanov, Deputy Minister, and Dr. Petya Petkova, Director of the Department of Agriculture and Forestry. On behalf of the importers, the Bill and the reasons for it were presented by the National Representative Irena Dimova. The Law amends the terms and conditions for the population of animals in establishments. The existing order is intended to continue to apply to the population of animals in new industrial pig farming farms and birds in sites where an outbreak of contagious disease or animal disease has been eradicated. With regard to existing holdings of farmed animals and those who have not had an outbreak of contagious animal and human diseases, the need to have received written authorisation for the settlement by the Director of the relevant Regional Food Safety Directorate, which is issued after an on-the-spot inspection by the official veterinarian and on the basis of a preliminary risk assessment. For those establishments, it remains the obligation to inhabit animals only in registered establishments. In addition to the route of movement on the streets of the settlements of the animals of flocks, mayors and mayors will also be obliged to determine the route of movement of the animals from the establishments. An order shall be signed for the preparation and approval of the evaluation report determining the amount of compensation due to the owners of animals destroyed in the application of measures to limit and eradicate infectious diseases where the assessment is assigned to an independent valuer. In the absence of information from the National Statistical Institute, the prices for the compensation for germinal products, raw materials and foodstuffs of animal origin, animal by-products and products derived from them, feed materials, feed additives, premixtures, compound and medicated feed may also be determined on a factual basis. From 500 to 1000 leva. raise the threshold above which the compensation for the destroyed inventory is paid by an independent valuer. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry supports the Bill. In the subsequent discussion by the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, the Law was said to change too often. According to them, the Bill does not provide a clear answer to which establishments will be subject to the new rules of population. They also noted that in the absence of information on real market prices, the proposed procedure for calculating the amount of benefits would again not be effective. They recalled that information about the market equivalent of these prices could possibly be provided by SAPI Ltd. In addition, they noted that there is no basis for adopting a methodology on which this amount would be calculated, which would create a problem when challenged by the interested parties. In this regard, the Members of the National Assembly agreed that the provisions of the Bill should be refined between the first and second votes. After the debates, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 13 votes for.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u73	Thank you, dear Mrs. Dimova. Presenting by the person who is responsible for the meeting, Mrs. Belova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u74	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The proposals in this Law amending and supplementing the Animal Health Act are related to the creation of an explicit provision in the Animal Health Act, which lays down precisely and clearly the criteria relating to the preparation of reports by independent assessors in relation to the findings in the compensation of establishments, in the event of a situation of infection and circumstances. With this provision, we will respond to the preliminary recommendations of the European Commission on the preparation of the annual audit relating to the financial resources which are paid to beneficiaries in relation to the circumstances. The meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Food raised questions and concerns about another proposal concerning a change in the Order of Art. 132 of the Animal Treatment Act, namely our proposals for easing the procedure for animal populations. On behalf of the importers, as a representative of some of the importers, I strongly state that if, between the first and second votes in the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Food, we do not reach full agreement on the wording of the article. 132 in the Animal Treatment Act, this text will be changed or withdrawn. Our only goal was to really ease the more severe procedure for the population of the establishments. Once again, if we do not reach full agreement from all the parliamentary groups, we will withdraw this proposal from us. In view of this, I call on all the parliamentary groups to support the First Voting Act in order to work in the Committee on the revision of the texts so that they really respond to the reasons we had when entering this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Belova. I'm opening the debate. Colleagues, you have a say in this. Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova. LIGHTS OF PIRALKOVA (BSP for Bulgaria): Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to start, first of all, that this is the fourth change in the Veterinary Activity Act this year, and every time it was about very urgent changes that impose one or another solution, in principle related to the severe epizootic situation in the country last year. What is now offered to us by the importers, I cannot in any case assign it to the category of "Emergency" because of the proposed texts and decisions that are respectively debated in the Bill. I understand from the importers, Mrs. Belova was very clear that what is proposed in terms of the eased procedure for the settlement of animals creates many problems, there are many underwater stones, looking for or will seek consensus. I find it difficult to find consensus on something that can even enter the category of..Lobist... for the simple reason that there is some interest in this happening now, to happen in a hastily prepared bill and to create conditions to go in some direction, at least because of the fact that precisely opportunities for financing such projects are ahead. There may be ideas in this direction, but neither is it their place, nor is it the time for them to be realised in the way they are asked, all the more so that the complex epizootic situation in the country from last year, this also requires much stricter control by the control authorities for fulfilling humane commitments, for biosecurity, for animal population and so on. Maybe there's some urgency about how grades are made. The audit clearly pointed out that there are extremely many arsenals of how they are formed according to the valuer and the valuation, according to the site, the assessment, i.e. there are absolutely no criteria, and therefore it is ultimately so that we pay higher benefits than the countries in the European Union. The European Commission has sanctioned us in some form with the reluctance to recover these amounts which, as a rule, the European Commission is paying in such a situation, but still the text in the Law does not allow us to see objectivity and this objectivity to be done in a way that we intend to do with a methodology, whether using more than one source, and not only the National Statistical Institute, in order for everyone to be convinced that the assessment corresponds to what is done as costs or what we aim, respectively, to be objective for everyone and not under the circumstances. Between first and second readings, we will propose changes to this part, which will enable the written texts to ensure transparency in determining the assessments for establishments. And perhaps not last, last year, when we adopted the Law and when more than 200,000 pigs were destroyed, then we decided unanimously that the benefits would be paid within 30 days after the outbreak was established and the measures adopted accordingly for their eradication. Now, with this proposal, the period becomes unexplainedly long or, how do we say, it is so vaguely written that it is rather assumed that this period will be extended over time and no one will know when the compensation will be received from the proposed changes. Therefore, it seems to me that the possibility of this law to play the role that is written in the motives is more harmful in this part than it will create the possibility of solving issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. - What's the line? Mrs. Belova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u77	Dear Professor Bachvarova, you are absolutely right that the amendments to this law from the beginning of the year are many, but this is your statement I take as a finding of the hard work we have in the Committee on Agriculture and Foods [[Partial applause from GERB]] because the changes to the Animal Treatment Act are mostly conditioned by the fact that we already have a whole new food law................. the Agricultural Chain Act, Food Act, and we had to synchronize the existing laws. I'm proud you're reading this. This shows to other Members that we are working collectively, expertly and have adopted food legislation, which has been a topic in the last few years and several mandates of this Parliament, for which I sincerely thank all the parliamentary groups. Regarding the current proposals in the Veterinary Activity Act, I am sure that between first and second readings, as we have always agreed, we will refine the texts so that they correspond to the reasons we had as importers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Belova. Another line? A hole?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u79	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It is true that we are working very hard, especially under the Animal Health Act, but I would like to return to a speech from two years ago by representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry when they said that there will be a whole new law that will comply with the new requirements and the new regulations of the European Commission. Unfortunately, there is no such law, so I have to... [[GERB's reply: "Working. "]] We've been working for two years, and we're going to accumulate more knowledge, but during that time, the whole CAP or requirements will change, and it's still going to be some kind of enchanted circle. I think these constant changes create not only difficulties for business, but also for control bodies. By the time they read one of the changes, we already have a next one, and I'm sorry, but then the control work suffers more than if we don't change often. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. We continue with the speeches. Are there any other statements? I can't see. I terminate the debates and put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Animal Health Act, No 054-01-70. Vote 98 MPs: 90, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Honourable Members, we continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. One message before that: On 17 July 2020, it was received and will be sent to the MPs A general draft of the bills amending and supplementing the Social Services Act adopted at the first vote on 17 July 2020. The project was drawn up by the Commission by labour, social and demographic policy on the basis of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u81	Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I am making a procedural proposal that the deadline for proposals under the General Law amending and supplementing the Social Services Act, No 053-08-23 of 17 July 2020, be reduced to three days.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u82	I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 74 MPs: for 74, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Honourable Members of the National Assembly who have submitted new questions for the period from 10 July 2020: There has been a question by the MPs Dragomir Stoynev, Anton Kutev and Krum Zarkov to Tomislav Donchev about the preparation of a National Plan for the recovery of resources provided by the European Union to overcome the health and economic consequences of COVID-19 and the reforms underlying it. Response should be made in the plenary sitting on 24 July 2020. Written responses were received from: - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov on a question from the National Representative Dora Yankova; - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Rumen Gechev; - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov on a question from the National Representative Elena Pesheva; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Danka Zidarova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Daniel Yordanov; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov. Procedure, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u83	Dear Mr. Chairman, I will take the opportunity to read Chapter 10 to you, art. 113 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, which reads: "The National Assembly or the Committees elected by it................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On this basis, as last week, I insist that it be organised by the President of the National Assembly, that is, by you, as President at the moment, a hearing on matters concerning state or public interests, in particular on the question: what are the powers of the Prosecutor's Office, whether there are things in the actions of the Prosecutor's Office that go beyond the real constitutional and legal powers of the Prosecutor's Office, with which to start a public conversation about this need legal changes, is there a need for constitutional changes? There is no one else to make this debate at the moment other than the National Assembly, given the powers given to the Prosecutor General by the Constitution of the State. Therefore, for the second time, I call on you: organize at the first meeting from here on. The whole country is shaking, people are outside except for the government and because of Geshev, we need to discuss these things and have an opinion. Therefore, I ask you: organise him as President, because it is one thing to organise him as an MP and to request a request for a hearing, it is another when the President of the National Assembly does so. The authorship and the stakes are different. Therefore, once again, I call on you: organise a hearing of Ivan Geshev as Prosecutor General, so that we can discuss whether and how the prosecution performs its duties or exceeds its powers. One more thing in the same style. I ask you very much to explicitly invite MP Delyan Peevski to come to work because I hear every day all kinds of rumours...some ministers were of Delyan Peevski, he ran the judiciary, he appointed somewhere. Let's get him to come to work, invite him specifically, so we can actually find out from him what he's running and what he's not, because I'm convinced that there's a lot of truth in these rumors, but maybe he can disprove me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u84	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. The second part will simply not answer because each MP does as he decides in accordance with both the Rules and the Laws. And as far as the hearing is concerned and at all the talks with the Attorney General, I suggest that we follow the order set out in the Rules, you know perfectly well that this is done in a certain order. That's why we're moving on...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u85	Well, that's the order!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u86	Make a suggestion, you know how it is done and then we can talk. Just to transfer responsibility to the President of the National Assembly when the MPs have not used all the opportunities given in the Rules of Procedure, I think...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u87	You're also an MP.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u88	We continue with questions to Mrs. Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, who will answer a question from the National Representative Boryana Georgieva regarding a continuing speed limit for movement in the section between Chirpan and Stara Zagora from the Trakia Motorway. You have the floor, Mrs. Georgieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, in reply to another of my questions to you regarding the continuing speed limit for the movement of the highway..Trakiya............. in the section between Chirpan and Stara Zagora.............................................................. You have informed us that a number of problems have been identified in the right lane of the area, such as impaired wearability, poor drainage, cracks, accelerated wear, subsidence tracks, cross waves and so on. You have assured us that a solution to all these problems will be sought in the Project for the Repair of the Highway "Trakiya" which, at the time of your reply on 7 February this year, was under preparation and subsequent approval, as well as the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works in no way underestimates the problem and is constantly looking for opportunities to solve it. As a major obstacle to the start of this so necessary renovation, you pointed out the lack of funding. With regard to another expiry of the order introducing the limitation and absence of repairs, as well as fair criticism by citizens and businesses, I address you with the following questions: First, at what stage is the project for the repair of the highway Secondly, it is obvious from your answers that you are delaying solving the problem. Will delaying the order again prove to be the only solution to the problem that your Ministry can offer this time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Georgieva. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Georgieva, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As already announced a week ago, the Road Infrastructure Agency is ready to begin the repair of the section of the highway "Trakiya" between Chirpan and Stara Zagora, right-hand road, direction Burgas. What includes repairs, you know and have already commented in this questioning room that the compromised section is from 168 to 208 km. What is envisaged is an increase in the scope of the project and it will start as repair activities of 156 km, i.e. a section of 52 km will be renovated in the direction of Burgas. The technological project is agreed with the Institute of Roads and Bridges. The documentation relating to the assignment for the award of the necessary repair and reconstruction activities is currently being developed. According to an expert assessment, the indicative value of the 52km extension for the repair of the right-hand traffic lane will be around 89 million. BGN, with 70 of them for the road part. For the overtaking and active lane of the highway "Trakia" in the right-hand lane is provided a deep cutting of asphalt flooring, width of 8,5 m at the road load gauge of 11 m, and 8,75 at the road load gauge of 11.5 m at a depth of about 20 cm, cold recycling in place with a connecting substance with thickness of 30 cm; laying a layer of porous asphalt concrete for main layer; laying a geoweb according to detail; laying a layer of non-solid asphalt concrete with thickness of 8 cm; laying road asphalt concrete with a constant thickness of 4 cm for active stripes. For the emergency tape in the section of the right canvas we predict cutting of asphalt flooring, according to the prepared level solution; making preliminary repairs and laying a layer of solid asphalt concrete with 4 cm according to the types of thickness profiles. 15 million levs are for replacing the containment systems in the 52 km section of a medium dividing strip and banquet, and 4 million for mounting road signs in both lanes, and laying horizontal marking. Repair and reconstruction events will start after 15 September, so as not to make the intensive car flow more difficult during the summer season, and will be implemented without stopping traffic. When planning the repair activities, a number of factors are taken into account, which include, in addition to technological time for the implementation of the types of activity, as well as providing maximum conditions for safe travel. For this reason, on July 1st, we launched the five viaducts of the highway "Trakiya" on 13, 15, 17, 18 and 20, which started as repairs on March 13th, so that we could ensure the smooth passage of intensive traffic. The order to limit the movement from 90 km per hour in the section from 168 to 208 km (left and right lane) has been extended until 31 December 2020, and a new movement organisation will be introduced during the repair and reconstruction activities in the section so that all regulatory requirements are met. With the completion of the repair of the right canvas between Chirpan and Stara Zagora, the desired comfort for traffic safety in the right lane will be achieved, and then we plan to repair the left lane, but this should be done consistently in order to have the crossing power of the highway itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u92	Thank you, Madam Secretary. A line?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. However, as far as I understand it, you will actually do the work in half with the implementation of the repair activities in the direction of Burgas, and for the direction of Sofia I heard nothing This will be another extension of the repair period of the highway. In fact, I suppose you realize that in Bulgaria there is not a single highway that operates as one from one end to the other. I don't know the last time you went to Trakia Motorway, especially in this area, in your own private car, not in NSO's car, to find out how bad and miserable this area is. People are really putting a lot of pressure on themselves. Drivers who have to pass through this road station very often, not to mention that they are receiving fines in mass, because you know that there is no way to comply with the 90km limit. So I don't get into the details, driving 90 km away, there's always someone in the back who flashes you and turns you on. You're either crashing your car or you have to go speeding. Therefore, you receive fines and acts of infringement. When is Trakiya Motorway expected to be repaired and functioning as such?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u94	Thank you. A hole, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u95	Dear Mrs. Georgieva, the good news is that the highway There is no way we can repair both of the roads in the direction of Burgas and the direction of Sofia, because we have to provide a crossing power on the highway. There's no way we can close the entire highway, so we're going to react gradually. First we're going to repair the right lane, then we're going to fix the left lane. Ninety kilometers is a limit that is set for road safety. You know that the highway was built in 2007. The warranty deadlines have expired; deformities and deformities on the road, which is a prerequisite for road accidents. The speed of 90 km is consistent with the authorities of the Ministry of Interior so that we can ensure safety in the movement. That September month will launch the construction activities of this precinct will, of course, create additional certain concerns for drivers, I too pass. Last week, I drove a private car down this precinct. I know. We've been looking for opportunities for a long time. Funding has already been secured so that we can also make this section of the highway, which in time has been built so that we now have a problem with its exploitation. After this repair, we'll start repairing the left lane. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u96	Thank you, Mrs Avramova. A declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group is available to you, dear Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Declaration by the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs. While thousands of people protest on the yellow pavement, fulfilling their constitutional right to opinion of protest, solving global issues of statehood and democracy, real life has offered yet another small and minor case of brutal abuse with law enforcement officers from a rogue mob of Gypsies in Kyustendil. The protests will go away. The government will survive. The protesters will go home satisfied or desperate, but the severe ethnic problems in the Bulgarian society will remain. What's this about? Yesterday shortly after 11:00 in the gypsy district of Kyustendil, three employees of the Ministry of Interior, including their dog, were beaten. Policemen who visited an address in the neighborhood for carrying out investigative measures were attacked by the residents of the house with knives, shakers and metal rods. Twenty-first century, 2020 Knife, cleaver and metal rods! In the West of the Balkans, such an attack is accepted and considered a terrorist act. In our homeland, unfortunately, this is a daily routine with which society is so accustomed that it accepts it as a standard domestic incident. This is another case of assaulting police officers in the performance of their duties. The list of such attacks is desperately long. Before Kyustendil such fragrant cases of gypsy attacks on police teams were held on 15 May this year in Provadia. The team arrived on a signal for loud music at night was attacked by drunk gypsies with axes again with axes. On April 21st in Plovdiv, Seker neighborhood, when two policemen were attacked and beaten with stones and wooden poles after a signal about a kidnapped girl. Before that, there was an attack on police teams in the town of Kuklen, on Easter in the district of Hope, and in many other places, after trying to stop the terror of the citizens of the drunken Gypsy crowds and companies. Assailants have no respect for law and law enforcement. And it's not an accident. The morbid attackers have a sense of impunity because, on the one hand, they know that they will be protected by the lawyers of the countless human rights organizations, which we see today in the front lines of the protest chanting for freedom and democracy and against the goons in power, and that they have political protection of the DPS, which has lost the trust of the Turkish ethnicity and has been reoriented to buying gypsy votes. The Parliamentary Group of "United Patriots" strongly condemns the yet another attack on police officers during and on the occasion of their duties and insists on the state institutions, political parties and all politicians, including President Radev, to condemn the aggression of marginalized criminal individuals and groups, and institutions to apply to every participant in this violence and the like of it all the strictness of the law. The soft actions of law enforcement and law enforcement institutions that succumb to the pressure of crooked organizations and generously sponsored NGOs have turned these so-called incidents, but in fact extremely dangerous to the order of the state crimes into an epidemic. Harassment, threats, beatings and direct attacks with deadly weapons were and continue to be subjected to doctors, emergency medics, forest workers, police officers, social workers, municipal officials, even journalists. There are dozens of cases. And we're only talking about this year and only those reflected by the media. It is time for Bulgarian institutions, Bulgarian politicians and political parties to overcome their fear of law enforcement in its full volume. It is time for the Minister of Interior to publicly announce that by law the Bulgarian policemen are entitled to self-defense and order the use of firearms when they are attacked by threatening their lives. It is time for the judiciary to award fair punishments to the perpetrators of similar attacks of statehood, life and health of Bulgarian citizens. No one is and cannot be greater than the law, regardless of his ethnic, social, sexual, material, non-governmental or other status! Law and justice for everyone! Tomorrow is the 183th anniversary of the birth of the greatest Bulgarian Vasil Levski to remember his words that sound today: In our Bulgaria it will not be as it is now in Turkish. In it all nations will live under some pure and holy laws... both for the Turk and for the Jew and whatever they may be, for all alike it will be... That's how it's going to be in Bulgaria. Long live Bulgaria! [[Single applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u98	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. We continue with a question to Minister Avramova from the MP Dragomir Stoinev concerning Republican Road III-5504, Stara Zagora district, Galabovo municipality. You have the floor, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u99	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! One clamp! The speaker with the declaration is part of the ruling coalition, so he bears full responsibility for the state in which the country is located. I'm closing the clamp. Mrs. Minister, my question to you concerns the road between Mrs. Iskritsa and Mrs. Mednikarovo. Nothing really new about the third-class road network, but eventually for this time there was social tension years ago. The reason for me to ask this question again is that there is social tension again, because then Mr. Nankov, to put it mildly, failed to keep his promises and from the whole road a bridge was being repaired, which would limit people from access to the village of Obruchishte and the repair was completed. When he failed to keep his promises, he resigned. I hope you can tell the truth about whether we can expect people from you and the government to fulfill your commitment so that people have easy and, above all, safe access to their settlement and their homes. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I am asking a question about a road that is extremely busy. It is located in the energy heart of the Bulgarian energy sector, namely near the complex of Maritsa East. On average, there are approximately 90 buses that drive miners to Troyanovo 3s, about 26 buses to the headquarters of Kontour Global, 40 vans for repairs of companies that are in the area, 25 trucks of the company Knauf and approximately 800 private cars. You understand the flow we are talking about and people are worried because no action is being taken by the District Road Agency so far. I want to ask you: do you really plan on repairing this department this year? Because it used to be explained to us that, you see, the famous toll system should come. This toll system, after many changes, ends in one sentence, Mr. Chairman, and may not lead to the necessary revenue. But we want to know and people are interested in whether it is included in the investment programme for this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u100	Thank you. Madam Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Stoynev, Republican Road III-5504 On the third-rate basis, current repairs are carried out each year aimed at improving its condition. In 2019 they were also carried out at the axis of the facility at 14 km to a value of 184 thousand. lv. Since the beginning of 2020, the cutting of shrubs and cutting of grasses has been performed. The horizontal marking has also been updated. On road III-5504 there is intense traffic, as you have noted, of heavy goods vehicles carrying limestone for the sero-cleaning facilities of TPP Maritsa 3s and serving the plasterboard plant, as well as numerous buses with workers. This further destroys the pavement and causes serious damage to the infrastructure. Despite the actions taken under the ongoing maintenance for the permanent improvement of the performance of the road, indeed, as you have noted, a major repair of the entire section is needed. Given the length and condition of the compromised section, planning and allocation of a significant financial resource is required, with the Agency's budgetary capabilities in the short term very limited to the implementation of such an investment. For the purpose of ensuring passability and normal operation, the Road Infrastructure Agency is planning in its current repair programme for the second half of 2020 to perform wide-scale track breakage that will contribute to improving the condition of pavement in the road section. At the same time, the Ministry and the Road Infrastructure Agency assess the importance of this road section and will continue with efforts to secure the financial resources for the award of the design and implementation of construction activities for major repairs on road III-5504 in Galabovo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u102	Thank you, Mrs Avramova. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I understand from your answer that in the second half of this year we begin to wash the road, eventually people will not get beaten up. I don't know exactly how this investment programme works. Does it depend on the lobby of certain MPs or on the needs of the Bulgarian economy?! But indeed this is a road that really concerns the Bulgarian economy and is extremely important. You can see that it is not only I who say it, but also your experts stress that it is extremely busy both for the safety of both the miners and the workers and the citizens who are there, it really needs a complete repair. I'm glad you didn't say that we were waiting for the big receipts from the toll system, because that's how it was explained to us at the time: My request is to really fulfill this commitment of yours, to anticipate it, because people are worried about their health, and so that it does not come to protest to really fulfill this commitment of yours, because the people there are extremely sensitive, and it is a good way to ensure that the lives of Bulgarian miners and Bulgarian workers who are working there are preserved. Madam Minister, we will indeed follow this promise of yours. Again, that's a question I'm asking maybe for the third time. It's been three and a half years and I hope by the end of the year they'll really get better, sort of patch things up and hopefully we'll have money next year to be included in the investment program so there'll be money for the design and reconstruction of the road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u104	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Mrs. Minister's doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Stoinev, I understand your concern. At the same time, if this is about lobbying, which all the MPs exercise for the area where they work, all the MPs for their districts have been asking, posting letters, we've had conversations. The truth is that we need to prioritize in the search for funding opportunities. I respect all workers both in the mines and in the tetzes this area is familiar to me because I have also worked in the field of energy and I know the workload of this section and the buses that pass this third-class road. In the second half of the year, we will do this ongoing repair needed to ensure safety and will look for a way to provide funding for the necessary major repair of the section.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u106	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. The next question to Minister Petya Avramova is from the National Representative Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov on the extension of the road 1 (E79) from km 0+000 to km 6+816,60. Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u107	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Minister! The construction of part of the speed road Botevgrad started in the section between Mezdra and Botevgrad. In the coming years, it will be fully built. At the same time, Vratsa's bypass, part of the same road I My question to you is: what do the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Road Infrastructure Agency provide for the expansion of route 1 in the section called in my question Vratsa's bypass, and what actions have been taken at this time?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u108	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Madam Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ivanov, in answer to the question asked, I would like to provide you with the following information: The road Vidin "Botevgrad," part of which is the bypass of Vratsa, is a priority infrastructure project of national and trans-European importance, as with the overall homogenization and modernisation of the route from Danube Bridge 2 will provide a quick and convenient connection between the motorways "Hemus", "Trakiya" and "Struma" as well as with the countries along the European Corridor................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Its reconstruction will also contribute to the safe and comfortable passage of transit traffic. The speed road project from Vidin to Botevgrad is divided into individual objects, most of which are already in active implementation phase, as you yourself pointed out in your question. The Road Infrastructure Agency has taken into account the fact that the current G-10,5 gauge on Vratsa's bypass would be insufficient to take over the road flow and work on a task to create a preliminary and technical project to double its gauge. The construction of a second lane with two lanes for movement, as well as the rehabilitation and reconstruction of the existing two-band road will be completed in order to integrate the site into the common project so that all sections from Vidin to Botevgrad meet the current speed road requirements. The section of the city's bypass, located northeast of the town of Vratsa between road II? 15 Vratsa? Oryahovo and the existing road I? 1, with its inclusion in a first-class way at km 152, the length is 8,179 km. In June 2013, the construction of the second stage of Vratsa's bypass began and the project was co-financed by the Cohesion Fund of the European Union through the Operational Programme. The first stage of Vratsa's bypass began in 1986 and ended in 2004. The length of the route of the second stage is 6.8 km and is located northwest of Vratsa, the construction ends in July 2014. The two stages of the bypass are designed and filled with a gauge of 10,5 with a total length of 14,995 km. The new design assignment must be very carefully refined and prepared so as to provide guidance for seeking the most favourable project solution. The expansion of the road to the G20, the bypass of Vratsa, will consist of two lanes, each with two lanes of movement, with a width of 3,5 m and 3,25 m respectively, leading stripes of 0.25 m and 0,5 m, and an average dividing strip of 2 m, banquets of two times 1,50 m. In order to meet the latest road safety requirements, the road will be designed so as to ensure non-conflict crossings with the other roads and the railway line through which it is currently passing by building facilities to overcome them at two levels. This will lead to greater traffic flow capability, as the traffic flows moving along the different directions will not reduce their speed in the road nodes and crossing the railway line. Two important conditions must be taken into account when preparing the project. On the one hand, in relation to the sustainability requirements, the site, which was built under Operational Programme "Transport" 2007-2013, is subject to checks by the Managing Authority of the Operational Programme five years after the final payment under the Project, which was made in May 2016, with a view to which, until the end of the sustainability period, and this is May 2021, the section cannot be taken actions related to its expansion and reconstruction. On the other hand, almost all along the route of the surrounding route of Vratsa on one side is situated a fork area and the other passes close to the dam. For this reason, an appropriate design solution should be sought to enable the service of the villa area, minimal involvement of existing buildings, as well as regulated inputs for access to adjacent properties. In full implementation of the project from Vidin to Botevgrad, in part of this section between Mezdra and Botevgrad, construction activities were launched, in other areas intensively the procedures for alienation are under way and the design and expropriation of properties for the bypass of Vratsa will take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u110	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Ivanov, line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u111	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. It is evident from him that in line with the construction of the speed road Botevgrad I have heard from your reply and it is good that what has been missed is provided, unfortunately, in the further construction of the bypass in 2013 - 2014 that four sails will be provided plus the elimination of the conflict crossing of this road from a third-class republican road and one municipal road. I hope you will also predict and eliminate this extremely conflicting crossroads, which makes the connection with the road to Oryahovo. However, what is important is also to make maximum efforts and complete mobilization of the teams working on this issue by the Ministry and the Road Infrastructure Agency, so that when the extension sustainability period has expired, which was done and the reconstruction that was made in 2014, there is a maximum design readiness to carry out estrangement procedures, despite technological problems, and that a way to finance and build this section of the road that makes Vratsa's approach can be ensured in order to ensure a really normal transport connectivity over the whole region and together to ensure this prioritisation of this important European corridor in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u112	Thank you. Hole, Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ivanov, I would like to assure you that my opinion, the opinion of the experts of the Ministry, and of the Road Infrastructure Agency, as well as the opinion of Prime Minister Borisov, with whom I have had talks about the crossings of Republican roads with such local importance along the route of the entire section from Vidin to Botevgrad, his firm opinion and my opinion is to be revised even these crossings and these intersections, which are foreseen in the time back in the section from Mezdra to Botevgrad, and they will be redesigned. You know that they were set up as circular intersections, will be redesigned as intersections on two levels precisely in order to ensure maximum transmission and minimum traffic difficulties and prerequisites for road accidents. As I have already said, Vratsa's bypass will solve these misunderstandings, which, back in time, experts have left as conflict points, as well as the roundabout, which is a third-class road in the direction of Krivodol, Montana, as well as crossing the railway. I think it is an unfortunate road that is for transit traffic and that we are building a complete speed section and those that are going to have a highway gauge to have such a prerequisite for road accidents as is crossing the railway. So the new Vratsa bypass project will include overcoming all these problems that you have just highlighted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u114	Thank you. Question from the National Representative Vesela Lecheva concerning landslide processes on road VTR 2206, section road III-403, Suh You have the floor, Mrs. Lecheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u115	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, my question is related to landslide, landslide processes on the main route of the municipality of Suhindol to Sevlievo and the main road from the municipality of Suhindol to Pavlikeni. This landslide process threatens to tear and isolate three settlements, three villages. These are Byala Reka, Gorsko Kosovo, Gorsko Kalugerovo. This landslide on the territory of the municipality of Suhindol is a huge risk for all travelers and, of course, a huge problem for all residents there, as there is limited access to ambulances, police, fire department. This, of course, puts the life and security of Bulgarian citizens at risk. Unfortunately, the scale of the landslide is extremely large and the strengthening of many times exceeds the possibilities of the municipality of Suhindol for overcoming and removing it. My question to you, Minister, is: when will the residents of the settlements of Suhindol municipality finally have a normal road transport station; what are the possibilities of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and what measures will he take to address this extremely important and serious problem?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u116	Thank you. Madam Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Lecheva, the main responsibility of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works is the registration and monitoring of landslide processes. In accordance with art. 95, para. 1 of the Law on construction of the territory specialized technical assistance on issues related to geodefense activities are actions of municipal and regional administrations, specialized and control bodies and other state institutions in the event of distress and emergency situations related to overcoming adverse geodynamic processes, as well as coordination between the various departments for limiting landslides in the territory of the country, the abrasive and erosion processes on the Black Sea and Danube coast, which the Ministry operates through the state company. According to the provisions of art. 96, para. 1 of the ECT geo-defense measures and activities to limit landslides, erosion and abrasion processes for accident prevention are carried out by MRRB, by the central and territorial authorities in order determined by a regulation of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. According to data from the register of landslides on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria on road VTR 2206 Road III-403 to road III-3011 is municipal, established by Decision No 236 of the Council of Ministers of 2007. In accordance with the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration and the Law on Roads, municipal roads are managed by the mayors of the respective municipalities and the construction, repair and maintenance of them is carried out by the municipalities. There was a correspondence with the municipality of Suhsad, with the National Electric Company and other departments, with the Ministry of Environment and Water, with the Ministry of Environment and Water, with the Ministry of Water and Water, with the National Electric Company and other departments, and the Ministry has fulfilled its obligations related to geoprotected activities for the recording and monitoring of landslide areas, coordination and giving prior consent to the investment intentions of the municipality of Suhsad as regards the strengthening of the landslide. After each signal by the Mayor of Suhindol for the activation of landslide processes, the necessary assistance has been provided to organise engineering and geology reports, the relevant data has been entered in the register of landslide areas. The opinions of the Geosaprotectives. The branch of Pleven, from the conducted engineering and geological surveys, were delivered in due time to the municipality of Suhindol with instructions for taking action in the short term and with Decree No 247 of 2017 of the Council of Ministers on the budget of the municipality of Suhindol, were provided funds of 135 thousand. BGN 156. for research and design works on strengthening the Rossitsa river's shore in the section of the landslide deformation. Following documentation submitted by the municipality of Suhindol, in the performance of its duties under art. 96, para. 3 of the MRDPD ZUT has been given prior consent for carrying out geo-defense measures and activities, strengthening and drainage activities of an object, strengthening and restoring road VTR 2206 from km 5 to km 5+500 and determining the territory of geo-defense activities in the landslide area of Suhindol. Given the ownership of the public-municipality road, I would like to point out that, in accordance with Ordinance No 1 on geo-defense activity, the financing of the geo-defense activity is carried out by the owners and users of the real estate. The MRB implements geo-protective measures and activities such as under the budget programme "Development of the territory, public works, geo-protection, water supply and sewerage" with state budget funds, which are primarily aimed at carrying out preventive activities related to the recording of landslide processes, monitoring of the most active of them, continuing construction of sites, contracts and agreements from previous years have been concluded. The MRF budget shall not finance emergency facilities and activities, as in this case is the site for strengthening the landslide. The requirements of the Law on the Protection of Disasters and the Rules of Organisation and Activities shall apply to emergency situations and emergency reconstructions. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works monitors this landslide with concern and takes into account the need to take measures to limit landslide processes and permanently stabilise the territory and will support the municipality of Suhindol when applying for funding from the Interdepartmental Recovery Commission to the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u118	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mrs. Lecheva, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u119	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, I have listened carefully to what you have read, but this was part of the whole regulation, all correspondence and procedures that have been carried out so far by the Suhindol Municipality, and, of course, by your proper management bodies, I mean the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Interdepartmental Commission. Perhaps you should know that for several years our financial request has matured for the municipality of Suhindol, in the Interdepartmental Commission, and therefore, of course, are numerous and those who wish to solve serious and urgent problems and, as I see it, will hardly find order in the next few years. I was rather expecting that the Ministry of Regional Development knows that the state is allocating a small resource within nearly 70 million to address precisely the problems related to landslide processes in landslide regions. I thought that in your response I would see your priorities rearranged with regard to those landslide processes that have a serious statute of limitations, because it is no secret, you must know that by delaying in the years the funds that will be needed to restore these areas will be extremely serious and much more difficult for the state to find a way out of this crisis. It is better to be timely, and then they will also be effective, and they will not be so costly. You did not answer my question: what measures will the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works target to find a way out of the situation that has already been created for so many years? Based on what you have presented to me so far, there is, of course, a completed work project. This is a fact, and the question is: will you have the desire and, above all, the will to separate from the Fund for the restoration of these problematic landslides and to find order and the municipality of Suhindol in it?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Lecheva. A hole, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Lecheva, the landslide processes on the territory of Bulgaria, unfortunately, and the financial resource needed to be mastered is much larger than the one the Ministry can provide and predict in its budget. You know that landslide processes are the commitment of the owner of the property. In this case it is the municipality of Suhindol and this is a municipal road.. should seek funding. We are ready to support any request by the Municipality of Suhds..... to the Interdepartmental Commission or targeted funding with the Council of Ministers' Order in order to resolve this problem permanently. You know that the state has provided funds to the Road Infrastructure Agency for the management of 74 landslides on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, which are on the Republican Road Network. So together we will seek this solution and we will support the municipality in its desire to provide funding and to remedy this landslide problem with Suhindol.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u122	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear citizens of Bulgaria, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! According to current electoral legislation, the next parliamentary elections should be voted machine in all sections with over 300 voters. That's over 9,000 sections. They should only vote machinely, without paper. This requires a serious organizational effort. The practice of recent years shows that instead of working on the organization, the government deliberately dragged it out so that at the last moment they could cancel this guarantee against electoral manipulations and invalid ballots. In order not to re-apply to the Election Code in the days before the elections and thus to violate all international recommendations and standards interested in conducting fair elections, institutions, parties, civil organisations appeal for some technical but important legislative changes to ensure machine voting. BSP is one of those parties. As early as January this year, we responded to the President's call for dialogue on the issue, and GERB boycotted the meeting and announced that this was Parliament's work. They launched a working group in which we participated in good faith with concrete proposals until we realized that this working group is aimed at everything else, but not at the solution of the tasks, and they are simple. The type of machinery should be determined. Our suggestion is to be such with a tactile screen or touch screen as is known to the younger ones, and a receipt that is placed in an urn. The places for their storage and the time limits for the conduct of the relevant public procurement should be fixed. The authorities certifying and auditing these machines must also be specified. Simple questions, relatively easy decisions, as long as the majority is willing to make them. Most of them, by the way, can also be resolved by the administration, but recent elections have shown that it does not wish to contribute to this process. Frapant example of this are the letters of the CEC sent to Tomislav Donchev as the responsible for the organization of elections, which never received an answer. The working group in parliament has clearly shown that the government does not want such a vote, although it is they who have adopted today's law. The question is: why? We have not heard what GERB is proposing, but we have heard what problems there are, how difficult it is to implement the engine vote, we have heard about the transfer of responsibility between the government, parliament, the Central Election Commission and so on and so forth. But time is running out, we can say it's running out. Colleagues from GERB, accept this declaration as a well-meaning reminder. If we do not see immediate action, we will take further steps, including proposals for the necessary amendments to the Election Code next week. We also address Bulgarian citizens: support us to ensure together the engine vote, ensure together that the next elections will be fair, free and democratic. We recall that the thousands of citizens who are in the streets and squares of Bulgaria in recent days want not only the resignations of the government and the chief prosecutor, but also the machine voting that will deprive the ruling party of the opportunity to win official victories. If you can't hear us, listen to them! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u124	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. The next question is to Minister Avramova of the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev concerning a landslide of the highway You have the floor, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Minister Avramova, this is my third question about the highway "Struma" - the previous highway "Lyulin" - part of the European Corridor No. 4 Vidin "Sofia" - the Tower, and in all my previous questions I have raised the question about the formation of a landslide, which is not registered at the moment by the Ministry of Regional Development, i.e. the geoprotected landslides, which is constantly activated. I would only recall the chronology that the actual highway was put into operation in 2011 and at least the warranty deadlines had not yet expired on this highway, both for the pavement and for the accompanying facilities, at all for the entire highway. Despite the 400 million paid for its construction, money from the country's budget continues to be poured by the Bulgarian taxpayers. But this is the small problem as far as last year, from 2018 until now, within more than half a year the highway has been closed repeatedly and only part of it has been used. So, Madam Minister, my questions are: what measures will you take to strengthen the potentially dangerous landslides of the highway of Lyulin, respectively at the present time And the most important question: how much is this going to cost?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u126	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. You have the floor to answer, Mrs Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Bonev, due to the heavy snowmelting and heavy rains at the end of the winter season 2017 In this case, we are talking about slides due to adverse hydrodynamic processes, and the sections are not registered as landslides. In 2018, the Road Infrastructure Agency (Stroma Motorway) entrusted the road maintenance company to carry out emergency and reconstruction works on the sections, with the activities being set up in two stages. In the first stage, the seizure of fallen land and rock masses, the re-stabilization and stabilization of the waste through geotechnical events, the execution of drainage ribs, the crushing, fertilization and anchoring of unstable parts, the placing of geo-protected networks, the restoration of damage caused on the pavement and road accessories is carried out. Under the Maintenance Treaty of 29 June 2020 the implementation of the second phase of the activities for stabilizing the blast of the highway of Struma Emergency and reconstruction works are carried out according to approved and agreed by the Institute of Roads and Bridges Technology project, with reinforcements involving excavation activities of land masses m, horizontal drilling drains - 2560 m, installation of electric grids - 37 t, fertilization, concreteing under berms and cuttings - 6600 sq. m. The implementation of emergency recovery activities is expected to end at the end of October this year. In order to ensure safe passage of the section during the repair, a temporary organisation of the movement after tunnel has been introduced. Traffic is redirected two ways into the Pernik sail, with the speed in the area limited to 50 km per hour. The section shall also have the necessary road alarm to inform the drivers of motor vehicles. The Road Infrastructure Agency is preparing a change in the project for the temporary organisation and safety of the movement for the implementation of a reverse movement compared to the busy directions in the peak hours, which will be implemented after its coordination with the Directorate-General of National Police.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u128	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Minister, landslide blocked the highway.Lyulin........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Every water supply of the earth's mass leading to its destruction is called a landslide. Every single one of them! All other processes are related to the sea shores and riverbeds. It's a landslide, Madame Minister! Since 2018, I have asked the question twice to the previous minister. Twice! Nobody bothered to register this landslide. Because the Lyulin Motorway is extremely busy, I mean the Struma Motorway at present. What if it had happened during the checkpoints that were already making it difficult for people to move and move? What if October months were to re-initiate measures to limit the passage? On the one hand, we have a closed highway that's a guarantee that we keep saying it's not a landslide, and we all see it's a landslide?! So, Madam Minister, as soon as possible it is necessary, I doubt even strongly that the end of October is any time limit to be reached. Perhaps much earlier these reinforcements should be done on this landslide! And to go, take a comprehensive approach from 7 to 9 km on the highway. After all, we must ensure safe passage along the highway. As you can see, I have read you more than 10 times the highway has been stopped: since 2018, since 2020, more than 400 days it has not functioned!? Madam Minister, it is high time to take general measures to ensure safe passage on the highway.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u130	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Madam Minister, would you like the floor for the coat? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Bonev, I think you and I are talking about the same thing, but we don't hear from each other and we don't get along. If in this room and in this tribune I have to explain that certain sites are delayed in time because we have no secured funding and we cannot launch construction activities, I have just explained in my reply to your question that to strengthen this skate is provided funding of 10 million. BGN, that the activities will be implemented, that they have started from June 29 and will continue strengthening at km 9+970 for the lasting strengthening of the landslide process on the left side, towards Pernik. I think this should satisfy both you and the people of Pernik that actions have been taken, construction activities have been undertaken, there is an approved project being implemented, for the second stage of this project and funding is provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u132	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. We are moving on to the last question to you today from the National Representative Kolyo Milev about the financial situation of the Water Supply and Sewerage. Here you are, Mr. Milev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u133	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Minister, Dear Minister! My question to you is related to the difficult financial situation of the water supply and sewerage, where the Ministry is a main principal. Dear Minister, in recent years, the Company has been in a difficult financial situation with major debts to the Baseinova Directorate of Commerce, suppliers and irregular payment in the last months of the salaries of employees in the Company. As a result of the chaotic management decisions of the company manager there is currently tension among the workers and I believe it is high time the Ministry intervened in solving this problem. It is so far that the water meter unit is closed, people are fired at retirement age with telk solutions and water meters are sent for repair and certification in the town of Veliko Tarnovo and other cities, and their price is increased by 50 BGN. at most on the market up to 100 BGN, to which the Company sells them. I believe that even on the basis of a management decision, the reduction of the governor, who is from Nova Zagora, or his transfer from Nova Zagora to Sliven, and the appointment of a new one from Sliven to Nova Zagora, and to pay missionary is also incorrect. Even the reduction of incasators who work four hours on a salary of BGN 280. and pay them the remuneration of three or four times a hundred leva in the cards, and assign additional work to those who leave without increasing, or conclude contracts for their wage, and even somewhere is reduced without being informed is a problem. My question to you is: what decisive measures will you take as a minister and the Ministry, led by you, to overcome the difficult financial situation of the water supply and sewerage, including management decisions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u134	Thank you, dear Mr. Milev. Come in for an answer, Mrs Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Milev, "Water Supply and Sewerage" is a trading company with 51% state participation in capital, while the remaining 49% are distributed between the municipalities of Nova Zagora, Kotel, Tvarditsa and Sliven. At present, there are indeed difficulties in the company's activities, which are not always the result of management decisions of this management, but rather have an objective nature and have accumulated over the years problems such as depreciation water supply systems, associated high water losses, low collection rates and seasonal problems with quality of drinking water. Another part of the causes are due to climate problems and the trend of drought in the region in 2019 so far, leading to extremely low levels of basic surface water sources, among which the Asenovets dam. Due to the persistent trend towards reducing the supply volume of the dam allowed to draw water for drinking needs are limited by the Ministry of Environment and Water according to monthly limits taking into account current water consumption in the dam and long-term forecasts of expected revenues from the water sector. The costs of the electricity company, which, in turn, increased the cost of the service at the current and established fixed prices of the services established by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission for the price period 2020, have increased significantly. It is for an unforeseen and exceptional expenditure for the company which has sharpened the problems with the insufficient liquidity of the water operator and has delayed the possibility of timely servicing part of the liabilities. A small part of the company's problems are also due to adverse finalisation of events related to the operator's activity and originating past reporting periods, as a result of which is currently available in the company's water tax balance sheet. Following long judicial proceedings in 2019 The Commission therefore considers that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. lv. with interest rates for fun. It is for fees for water use to the Swimming Directorate of the East-Belmore Region. Plovdiv, which is currently due. Due to the inability to be paid by the Company, their deferral is requested. The CoVID-19 pandemic also affected the activities of the companies in the industry, including in the case of VIK Sliven. Organizational changes and optimization of staff numbers have been made in the Company. The delayed payment of wages will be overcome, according to the assurances of the management, as soon as possible. I would like to assure you that both on the part of the Company and on the part of the MRB a number of measures are being taken to stabilise the condition of the operator. A procedure is underway for the transition of the state participation by the companies of the water operators to the system of the MRB, including the "Vik" in the management of the Bulgarian Water Holding established by Order No 1 of January 2020 of the Council of Ministers. Founded primarily for investment purposes, the Holding will also solve current financial problems related to the provision of working resources for the activities of the companies in need in order to recover and enable efficient operation, operation and maintenance of the public water infrastructure provided to them. It is among the companies for which it is intended to be the subject of that intervention. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done. I'll fill in the back. The company implements an investment programme under a 2016 contract concluded by the Water and Water Regulatory Commission between the Water Association of Sliven and the VIK and the approved business plan of 2017 by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, including a number of activities aimed at reducing water, overcoming permanent leaks, accidents and improving the quality of the water supply in Sliven district. Within the scope of the competence of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works as a body implementing the policies in the water sector at national level, is ensuring the conditions for the participation of companies as beneficiary of the Operational Programme. As a result of the pre-investment study for the separate territory of the Water and Water Transport Authority, the operator for prioritization of investments in the water network and the joint efforts of all interested parties, the total value of the investment under the project was 133 million in September 2019. 326 thousand. BGN 939, of which a grant of 95 million 563 thousand. 25 leva. I'll finish up in the back, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u136	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. Almost twice as long. I'm again addressing your teams to consider the time you have for answers. Here's a line for you, Mr. Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u137	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Avramova, first of all, let's say that the Dam is not the main water source for the supply of Sliven Municipality and Sliven. The main source is the wells around Tunja's river. Why isn't it basic? Because still the Ministry cannot find the time and means to complete the drinking water treatment plant, which has been started since 2008. And this is justified by the COVID-19 reduction of people in retirement age, to shorten the entire water supply unit and the Society to be judged by people with telk solutions, is unacceptable. Also, the non-payment to the Swimming Directorate and the 7 million he owes also through the condemnation show that the last five years this management cannot cope, and even the passage and creation of the Water Holding will not help the Company to absorb these funds, which are given and can benefit from the grant. Not to mention co-financing. In addition, it is unacceptable that such high loss rates should be reported monthly and that no account of the collection of the liabilities that the Company has as a result of which it is also indebted to. And the tension is the result of the management weakness of this guide and the irregular payout of the salaries, as well as the obligations to the Swimming Directorate and the suppliers. However, my question is: will you take measures to replace the management? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u138	Thank you, dear Mr. Milev. You have the floor to answer, Mrs Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Milev, on the topics you have addressed in your line. First, the exploitation of wells also led to higher costs for electric power. energy, which is a problem faced by not one and two water companies during this drying period and inability to use the water of surface water sources, as well as the dam as Asenovets. I have already had the opportunity from this tribune to say that the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works is ready to complete the treatment plant, and in the project, which will be financed under the Operational Programme of the Environment, these necessary water supply lines are provided for in order for this treatment plant to be connected with both water source and users in order to be able to be put into operation. So these two projects are interconnected and will be implemented as a whole. On this issue, which you are interested in regarding the released people, I would like to tell you that signals from employees of the company have been received at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. By my command a working group has been set up and I have assigned the Internal Audit Directorate to check all signals and actions of the management of the "Vik" Sliven, on the release of employees and employees of the Company, including those who are to account for the water used in the settlements. I don't have a report yet. The working group has not expired. I don't have a report, but I'll let you know about the results of this inspection.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u140	Thank you, dear Minister. Thank you for participating in parliamentary control today. We are continuing with questions to Mr. Valchev, Minister of Education and Science. He will answer a question from the National Representative Christian Vigenin about measures to ensure full access to electronic and remote training for all Bulgarian students. You have the floor, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly, the development of the CIVID-19 pandemic creates risks for the training process and in the next school year 2020 - 2021. It is possible to switch to electronic distance learning again. At the same time, the unforeseen situation of the March-June period this year showed that not a few students found themselves unable to participate effectively in the training process. Only in Yambol, for example, according to information provided by the Ministry of Education and Science, 928 students or about 8% of the total number of students in the district could not participate in electronic distance learning in the said period. The main restrictions are the lack of the Internet and the electronic device through which to participate in the training. Measures to compensate for these problems had a partial result and created additional inconvenience for students, teachers and parents. Please answer the following question: what measures does the government intend to take in the period until the beginning of the next school year to ensure full access to electronic distance learning for all Bulgarian students? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u142	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u143	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr Vigenin, with the introduction of the emergency situation on the territory of the country on 13 March this year, announced by a decision of the National Assembly, until the end of the school year the training took place from a distance. In order to ensure the activities of pedagogical specialists in the realization of the education of the students, through the regional managements of education, the principals of schools stated their necessary devices and the need for Internet connectivity. The Ministry of Education and Science provided and delivered all requested devices through the directors of schools as well as portable Mi-Fi devices with paid internet access to teachers. With regard to students, the construction of Wi-Fi areas for access to high school concentration sites not covered by the training process for lack of internet has started urgently. The information we collected from the very beginning showed us that between 10 and 11% of the students did not participate in electronic training. Half of them approximately because of lack of devices, half of them declared because of lack of internet connectivity. It was much easier to ensure Internet connectivity than devices because, you know, this is linked to larger additional funds and to procedures under the Public Procurement Act, which require time to overcome the difficulties encountered with regard to the lack of Internet connectivity of some of the students. A change was also made to the Regulation on the financing of institutions in the system of pre-school and school education for the period during which attendance studies were terminated. Schools can incur costs of providing home internet to students who for social reasons do not have internet connectivity to include them in a remote form of training. The costs shall be incurred at the expense of the savings made in the school budget due to the termination of the educational process in the territory of the schools. Agreements have been reached with all mobile operators of national importance A1 Bulgaria, Vivacom AD and Telenor Bulgaria, which offer special offers to schools, in help of parents, to deliver mobile internet at preferential prices of a package with internet, data card, USB-sticks with internet, Mi-Fi devices, routers. Contracts may be concluded and made available to students or teachers through the principals of the schools for the above services. This is possible from the school's budget with a change to the Regulation of financing, as well as from donations. So what we can say is that we have created prerequisites for no students to be excluded because of a lack of Internet connectivity. The principals of schools and regional managements of education have information about the approximate number of the necessary final devices to include students in the learning process. The Ministry of Education and Science purchased over 500 such devices. Until now, we have separately cooperated logistically with the donation of 800 devices. Perhaps several thousand were provided without our assistance in various schools with a view to supporting the training of different students. We have taken action in a timely manner for the process of remote learning in all possible ways to prevent an interruption of the educational process. School directors with the assistance and support of regional governments have established an organisation for conducting distance learning in an electronic environment. The age characteristics, many webinars were provided to work in electronic platforms. Gradually, distance learning has come close to the standard learning process in terms of student engagement, learning and skills, their assessment and interaction between parents and students. Access to electronic educational content is also very important. In fact, if they have devices, but they don't have electronic lessons, that's not complete access. During this period, publishing companies, electronic platforms such as the "Learn" which offer paid educational resources, opened up for one part of the time such. The project "Education of tomorrow" "We have provided funds for the training of teachers" "E electronic content" is created, purchase of tools, specialized software for the creation of such electronic content." What we can say is that in a few years we have all the prerequisites above 90% of the curriculum, from the educational content in the curriculum to be visualized and free of charge, made by teachers. It will be paid to the teachers for such lessons. As for the technique, a large part of the students used a technique that was at school. In recent years, the Ministry of Education and Science has assisted schools in purchasing equipment, perhaps not sufficiently in all schools, but these efforts on our part are fact. What we are planning in the coming months, including the additional funds provided under the instrument to counter the effects of the European Union's CIVID-19 ReadEU, is to target a significant part of the funds to purchase equipment in schools. In schools, however, to be provided temporarily in a pandemic situation, that is, not the devices for students, but devices that would otherwise be used in school offices. We started this year the construction of the so-called STEM centres, for which on average 40% of the projects include the purchase of equipment, including mobile devices that can also be used. We also bet this as one of the key measures in subsequent operational programmes. I hope it will also be a priority in the budget, because these STEM centres show strong motivation. Highly increase the motivation for learning students in mathematics and natural sciences, where we usually encounter the biggest problem with understanding, absorption of content, the results set out in the curriculum, and provoking interest in learning. Two years ago, e-reading versions of textbooks were provided. With regard to the platforms, we have chosen an option with a decentralised choice of platforms. A large part of the school has worked with electronic educational platforms, the others have worked with different internet applications or communication platforms, but not with what is in its fullest sense, electronic education platforms. We did not oblige schools to work with a certain platform, but we provided as an alternative a systematic solution based on the contract that we have with Microsoft. What will also be done is to complete the so-called uniform identification, which will allow an analysis of the learning of individual students, even if they do not study in real time. A lot of e-learning from now on... We hope that the students will return, most of the next school year, which will be the most risky from the point of view of the epidemic, to spend in the real classroom. That doesn't mean they won't study with electronic platforms. Much more of learning will be asynchronous, i.e. in order to assign tasks, self-preparation. For asynchronous learning it is very important to analyze the educational difficulties of children and therefore it is important to have a uniform identification. The most used and largest platforms, such as Microsoft and Google, are already betting and have developed modules based on artificial intelligence, and will probably enter the Bulgarian education system within a year or two. To analyse children's educational difficulties and to personalise training, including through specific lessons, depending on identified difficulties. That is why it is important that this uniform identification, which will allow the study of all students to be analyzed. We created a group of 866 thousand profiles that are in the cloud infrastructure of the Ministry of Education and Science.. not Microsoft or Google. Moreover, Microsoft and Google integrated into the profiles of the Ministry of Education and Science. The other platforms are about to do this thing. When we do, I dare say we'll have the completed infrastructure. Our opinion is that the emphasis should not be so much in personal end devices. If you do a flashback, you'll see in 10 years how much saturation has increased with personal end devices. Also, when we talk about inequalities, we should bear in mind that a large part of the non-participation of students who were not involved in e-learning did not do so because of socio-economic obstacles, but because of socio-cultural, meaning lack of treatment for education. They have cell phones, but they don't have a computer or a laptop. They have another technique, but they don't think it's necessary to have personal devices. There have been several projects trying to provide them. With no regard, they were sold by evening, and some had even been able to resold them. So the problem is not just a social economic dimension. Again, there was a uniquely high level of support in the system between teachers and students. Many schools helped students.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u144	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for two supplementary questions, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, the information was very detailed. Some of it has affected the past period, of course, it is important to hear. I have no doubt that the Ministry is thinking seriously about the problem that I am putting, but I have, because I think it needs to be heard here in Parliament and people to know that serious work is being done on these issues. However, a lot of questions have been resolved on the move, but I believe that now is the period, especially summer, to approach the problem a little more fully and perhaps it makes sense to think about developing some comprehensive centralized programme that will cover all aspects of this training. And in this regard, as far as, of course, in my questioning concerns, above all, the problem of devices, access to the Internet, but in your response, some of the aspects that have sounded, my supplementary questions, are as follows: First of all, you also mentioned in your reply that e-learning is not just the same training, but with the cameras on, it has its specifics. And in this regard: do you intend to organize a special qualification, training of teachers who will eventually again have to teach in this way? Since various analyses have also come out that the effectiveness of training is better when teachers have a special approach, a way to teach electronically. And the question is not only in the content itself that is generated, but also in the way that teachers themselves approach this issue. From this point of view, I believe that it should be an investee in the qualification of teachers in this direction. Secondly, one of the problems that I personally met as a parent in this period was that some of the schools started on a platform, then transferred to a second, some, and third. Some of these platforms that have been used are quite heavy, which is more difficult, and there must be a very good Internet to be able to carry out the training. You mentioned something, but still to clarify: is the Ministry developing a unified platform to apply to all Bulgarian schools, or will we continue this form of interaction with Microsoft through their Microsoft Teams, if I am not mistaken? Because I personally think it makes sense, it makes sense to develop a special Bulgarian platform for Bulgarian education to comply with our specifics? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u146	Thank you. You have the floor to answer the questions, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u147	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Vigenin, whether it will be one program or three tools, we must have a unified concept. This unified concept I dare say we have it in recent years, we are implementing it systematically. Of course, when we get into such an emergency, and very quickly, we always say, "Why didn't we have two, six or twelve months more?" In general, three of us are the tools with which we implement this overall concept. One of them is Project "Education for tomorrow" and there are numerous qualifications on it. It started formally at the end of last year, but the real qualifications are starting now. They are both qualifications for work through information technology and teaching through information technology and for the preparation of educational resources. Teachers are the ones who have to make the platform with free educational resources. We're not going to make a single platform, we're going to make a National Library, that is, we're not going to make a library cabinet for the Library, but we're going to help students make the resources to be connected to these platforms. We have very good platforms. In 2017, we chose the decentralised approach, i.e. each school to choose which platform to use, all the more so that almost everyone is free. The platform, again, is just a software that administers. Much more important is the educational content. During this period we made the National Library, but in it some of the resources are not so good. Therefore, teachers should be armed with software, prepared to make resources. These resources will be verified for compliance with the educational content checked for copyrights sanded so that there are no errors in them, good for learning. That's what we're doing on the project. According to the National Program, we do everything else: the server infrastructure, which allowed us to build the so-called cloud with individual profiles; the purchase of equipment; the Wi-Fi we made in all schools, and the new one of this year the National Programme for STEM environment. These are not only a complex of chambers of mathematics and natural sciences, but this is also related to a change in the model of learning, i.e. in the core of the STEM complex, of STEM centers, such as projects, is the change in teaching methods, educational innovation, what you have also affected. It was very important that during this period what we have been trying to do in recent years the culture of educational innovations directed towards provoking students to learn more, to provoke their interest, to motivate them to learn through educational innovations, happened much larger, perhaps three or four times more teachers started, made more integrated hours. Project-based training was extremely popular. The inverted classroom, which first asked the student's theme, read more in class, connects information, conceptualizes, problems and so on, was also a very important approach. That is, we are trying to make the culture of educational innovations, to support creative teachers and schools, innovative teachers and schools dominant in the system. And this happened because of this situation, not so much thanks to information technology. Therefore, it was as if the situation allowed greater freedom and flexibility to do something that we should also encourage. We must also encourage the network approach. That's what we do with innovations. Teachers learn from each other because they can't be trusted that the Ministry or employees in regional governments will give the best directions. The best results are obtained in these schools. The situation, which are in a network where teachers exchange information, help with resources, stimulate and provoke each other. I think that only the second question I did not answer will there be a requirement to work with one platform, even though there will be no single platform? Yeah, we're gonna want everyone, the whole school, but if it's not possible for each class, every single class to work with one platform. So at least in one class you have to work on a platform, because it's good for students, it's good for learning. We'll make that a requirement. And the second is still to meet these minimum requirements, which we have formulated in 2017 for an electronic educational platform, because you know that there are many platforms that are video conference calls, such as Zoom and others that do not refer to this concept as an electronic educational platform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u148	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Vigenin, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u149	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, I must frankly say that I am relatively satisfied with the answers you have given to both asking and additional questions. I see that the Ministry is working seriously on these issues. But still, the general view eventually comes down to specific municipalities, schools, settlements. And what looks like a positive picture, in general for the efforts made by the Ministry, when it gets there, it might turn out not to say, it turns out it looks a little different. That is why this flexible approach, which is perceived, probably has its benefits, its meaning, but I still think there needs to be some more centralized effort - whether we call it a programme or something to be developed with clearer objectives by the Ministry of Education and Science, in which horizontal and other ministries and structures can engage. Yes, I know you've had such conversations with mobile operators since the time of the emergency, but, anyway, some of the settlements still do not have coverage. And when there's no coverage from there, the conversation becomes meaningless for Wi-Fi, free access and so on. That is to say, it probably also makes sense, through other ministries, to commit these large operators to show their social responsibility and to guarantee coverage in settlements where they currently do not. It is not a matter of working only for profit. In this respect, they must demonstrate their commitment to this. In addition, there are some seemingly small things that are still being posed as a problem by teachers. Some of them had to pay themselves for their access to the Internet. Of course, it is the responsibility of each and every one of them, and they are doing it, but it still probably makes sense to think about these not so big, but also smaller things that need to be provided in this window, I would say, which we have by September 15th. As for the......I myself spoke with school principals. I think it could, not be worth that much, but also from the point of view of the targeted funds that will now be allocated to both the country and the state budget, to think about the targeted purchase of devices for such training to be provided to schools and not as a donation, as you rightly noted that some of the students received donations, then disappeared these devices because they were resold. Which still has something to do with social problems. But to be provided temporarily to the students who then return them when they pass this period during which this e-learning is required. I just don't want to go into the details anymore. Again, I am satisfied as a whole with your commitment, but I think we need a deeper and more centralized approach on these topics. Thanks again. We will continue to follow this topic because, from September 15th, students are returning to schools and we want to ensure, and as MPs, but also as a state, it must ensure that the social gap is not deepened in terms of limiting access to education, because, let's face it, a huge part of the students we are talking about that they did not have such access to are from socially weak families, some of the ethnic, minority groups, people from many children's families, something we should not allow in the future. We must make sure that every child has access to education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u150	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. The next question to Minister Valchev is from the National Representative Georgi Turnovaliyski on the certificate of completion of the first high school stage of secondary education. You have the word, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Ministers! Dear Minister, Ordinance No 4 of 30 November 2015 of the Ministry of Education and Science defines the state educational standard for the curriculum for Bulgarian schools. According to him, training is carried out in compulsory classes to acquire general education in accordance with the state educational standard for general education through educational subjects provided for the study in the relevant class. The Regulation and its Annexes define the framework curriculum for general education for the basic degree of education. In the annexes to art. 12, para. 2 of the Ordinance describes all items, the number of hours per course. Logic shows that these subjects should fit into the certificate issued by the schools for the first high school secondary education stage. It turns out that although the study plans have been in force for three years, there are no items in the school certificates printed and distributed in the school curriculum, but there are those that are not studied. I give an example of the subject of Informatics, which does not appear in the curriculum, but is in the certificate. At the same time, the subject of Technology and Entrepreneurship, where students have 138 mandatory hours at a secondary stage, is missing in the document they receive. Dear Minister, my question to you is: how and by whom is the control of printing and issuing certificates carried out? Hasn't the error been seen? Who monitors the authenticity of what's printed in them? When will the Ministry of Education and Science change the issued certificates so that they meet the requirements of the Law and the Ordinance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u152	Thank you, dear Mr. Turnovalysky. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u153	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Turnovalliski, the terms and conditions for issuing documents for completed class, stage and degree of education are laid down in the Law on pre-school and school education and in Ordinance No 8 of 2016 on information and documents for the pre-school and school education system. In accordance with the Law............................................................................................... 131, para. 1, students who have successfully graduated from grade X receive a certificate for a completed first high school secondary education stage. The purpose, content and information in basic props and time limits for issuing documents for children and students are set out in Annex 4 of art. 31 of Regulation No 8. According to T. 8 of the Annex Certificates for the completion of the first high school secondary education stage contain information on the results of the students' training. The certificate shall be issued to students from different types of schools where different framework and study plans are applied. The model of the document meets the requirements of Regulation No 8 and is developed in a universal format applicable to all schools. It allows it to reflect differently the results of the students' training, depending on the study plans in which they are trained. For this purpose there is a maximum opportunity for the introduction of different study subjects studied in compulsory classes in the blank rows in the form. In this context, a dash shall be placed when completing the document on study subjects printed in the form but not studied in a particular study subject indicating that this subject has not been studied by the student. The study subjects that have been studied and have not been manufactured shall be selected from a list in the software programme to be completed by entering the document into the relevant section of the curriculum. The course is part of the required classes in the profiled high schools in the profile "Mathematics, Software and hardware sciences", "Economic development" or "Natural sciences." The study subject "Technology and Entrepreneurship" which is only studied in profiled education, without intensive and extended learning of a foreign language, as well as other subjects studied in innovative schools, is selected from the list in the software program and is included in the document. The school director shall be responsible for issuing the completed class, stage and level of education documents and for their content. The circumstances mentioned by you do not compromise the correctness of the certificates issued for the completion of the first high school secondary education stage, as there is no conflict with the requirements of the Law and the Ordinance if they are correctly completed in relation to the above approach. In the event that the Director has failed to comply with these requirements and has issued incorrect completed certificates, it is his duty to cancel and issue them new ones. This is determined on a school level. The questions mentioned by you are not generally required to re-issue the certificates. If we have to sum up briefly, they have different curriculums, which allows us to have a standard form, and it can be completed, respectively, against some of the objects to set a dash. When the certificates are reprinted each year, so that adjustments can be made, but, again, they must be in accordance with Regulation No 8. If you provide us with specific information, I'm committed to carrying out an inspection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u154	Thank you, dear Mr. Valchev. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u155	Dear Minister, I am not satisfied with your answer, because you are here explaining to me that, see, there is a software program in which some of the items are introduced and a form is issued through it. It's not a form. It's a certificate, it's a semi-valued book, because there's a number that can't be changed. I cannot understand, since we are talking about technologies here, we are talking about a software program, what is the problem with this so-called form of you to introduce all the items from these applications, which are seven in number, but the objects are repeated to be selected by the software program the objects that have been studied by the students and should be added! I do not understand what the problem is to do this, why should this certificate leave blank lines to be added when we have established framework curriculums and there are objects there! But that's your view. The question I ask, not to pick a fight or to show any weakness in your management is just that it bothers most of the principals of schools who issue these certificates. They put him in front of me. I put him in front of you. I'm not satisfied with your answer. I guess they will also remain dissatisfied.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u156	Thank you, dear Mr. Turnovalysky. Would you like the word for the doppelganger? Thank you. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Kolyo Milev to the Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov about the reasonable use of the water from the dam Zhrebchevo. Here you go, Mr. Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u157	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, my question to you is regarding the reasonable use of water from the dam. We know that Zhrebchevo dam is the fourth largest dam in Bulgaria after the dams You, Minister, are the one who allows the use of water from the dam, and with a full capacity of 400 million. Cube. M and an environmental minimum of 180 million Cube. At the moment, it is even below 150 million somewhere around 147 million. Cube. m of water. Each month an ecological drain and use for agricultural needs is allowed, but in the latest data a very small portion of the water, which is for irrigation, is only paid. It turns out that the rest is losses or as a result of the use of electricity power plants. My question to you is: what decisive measures will you take to stop the irrational use of water from the reservoir of Zhrebchevo, despite the necessary environmental flow, which must necessarily be launched around 5 million. Cube. Huh? Will you take organizational measures to increase the release of water from Koprinka dam to restore this minimal environmental regime? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u158	Thank you, dear Mr. Milev. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u159	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Mr. Milev, Dear Gentlemen Quaestors, Stenographers! Thank you for the opportunity to express myself in relation to the dam of Zhrebchevo in front of you, in front of your viewers and the entire progressive world community. In answer to your question, I inform you the following: The flow to the dam from the beginning of the year to the month of June is for the conditions of a very dry year............................................................................................. In the case of an expected forecast inflow, we expected 230 million in January for a wet year, for a dry year, 156 million, for a very, very dry year, 100 million. The actual arrivals this year at Zhrebchevo Reservoir (Jrebchevo) are up to June 2020 including only 65 million! The water consumption of the dam is limited to a minimum, is to be applied for irrigation and ensuring the minimum permissible drain. In order to allow a minimally permissible drain, this is what we miss from the dam in order to pass into the river in order for ecology to exist, we must bear in mind that the waters of the dam serve to water the river Tundzha, but also to nourish the wells for drinking-bit water supply of the town. Sliven. You, as mayor of Sliven, as you were, and citizen and MP from this area, know that the dam was at 4 million and if we had let it be dropped by a million and 800, there wouldn't be water in Sliven in three months! As a result of which we activated the pumps to be able to take pumping from the drillings, we limited the water use from the dam, we reduced it to 500 million and 200 to be able to pump, we've limited it, now we've increased in three months to 800 thousand to be able to give, because the consumption is great, so that we can spend a year. At the same time, we have to run an ecological drain and watering so that these pumps have what kind of water to draw. The dam, when you turn the pumps on, and don't let the river moisturize, the water horizon falls down and they don't work. So we solved the problem of the ecological drain, not only the ecology of the river, but also the drilling of the town of Sliven. In an inspection, the Basin Directorate and the technological loss of water at the prison facilities of the dam of about 1 million, i.e. the wall so works that in the closed position we always have 1 million losses, the waters that are allowed to maintain the ecological minimum on the Tundja river after the dam are reduced from 5 million to 4. So we're releasing 4. 1 million also go through the facilities, so 5 million are guaranteed for watering, for drilling and so on. In accordance with the rules laid down by the Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology for the management of the dam, Zhrebchevo and in accordance with the order of the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture, because we also have fish in the dam, according to which the work of hydropower should not be allowed at the volume of the dam below 180 million, with the monthly schedules for the use of water from the dam Zhrebchevo is not allowed water from the dam for electricity production in May 2019! Due to the low level of the dam with the July schedule applied for 22 million of them in the direction of Sliven and 2 million, you know that there are two tunnels of pressure and forcelessness, 4 km in respect of Korten and Nova Zagora, these requests have been reduced. You want for farming, you want for watering, we reduce them all the time. [[the President signals that time has run out]] To save water in the dam. You want me to move on or after he...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u160	Finish as far as possible.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u161	The volume of the actual volumes used for July of 12 million is allowed accordingly. They're put on a schedule to look for their own water sources. We have also issued an amendment to the schedule, with which from Koprinka dam we submit the five million for watering of the dam - Zherebchevo, from there towards the two rivers, the two waterbeds provide water for Sliven, so that wells can work. I'll answer after that if I can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u162	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u163	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, I thank you for your efforts to maintain the ecological balance, but at the dam there are also cages, nurseries for growing fish. Last week, I am not satisfied with the response of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests that there is almost no moving of the Sadk equipment into deeper waters in 2017, which is not true. They are lowered to a slightly larger depth far from the shore, but they have never been moved or returned to higher waters in the same place. I hope this will not be allowed to flow of 5 million cc's, which you have confirmed will be used by Koprinka Dam, will take place. Of course, you are not God or a shaman to help fill the dam, but still the plan that must be followed is precisely in this direction to prevent an environmental disaster with regard to the dam. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u164	Thank you, dear Mr. Milev. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u165	Mr. Milev, you have just stumbled into the situation of every minister: flush water for irrigation. What the fishermen do, flush water for the hydropowers............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The five million we're giving from Koprinka is for watering and drilling. If we do not satisfy the farmers, your question would be: why are there no water in two of the rivers and farmers suffering? When we pour water for farmers not to suffer and be able to water: why do fishermen now have to move the cages? Well, it can't all happen at the same time! I don't do that five million because of the cages. I also hate it when I give the farmers, the fishermen come, and they're all in the Agriculture Ministry. We give for drinking-bits, the farmers jump because they don't have to irrigate. We give farmers to have irrigation, citizens say: where are we? This whole balance is not easy at all. The dam that we are currently running is not to tell you the data, but how can this be complete every year, and this is full, and this in the middle, which is for irrigation, is empty? Because the facilities haven't been renovated for years, the farmers have no money, the irrigation systems can't run all the dams and keep them at minimum volume. Well, in the middle of the year, in the middle of the summer, where do I fill them? I can't give up the energy, I can't give up the drinkers to give up the Ministry, I mean. What we're doing right now is: we're reducing the need for watering maximum, we're giving everything to Sliven and the villages, and for watering, at the same time, as we don't want to deprive the dam, which is already very low on water, we're pushing from Koprinka, through a complex system to the lake, so that what's going to be released from the river, is not lost on account of the dam. We pass one five, then drop them down the river. Everything else we're saving for irrigation. However, I would like to tell you that if we and this year expect an inflow for a very dry year, in the absence of an inflow next year, because the volume will fall to 70 million liters in the dam, even if it is for 400 years and will become 70, next year we will endanger the security of the irrigation season 2021. If you want to start talking now: what is going on? There'll be no water next year. It's been like this for five years, but there won't be any next year. So we hope for rain, balance between dams, but at the same time we cannot do miracles! What we have now done is so that the rivers, drillings and water of Sliven from one dam do not suffer, through a complex system to send it to another, from there to miss it to have it. For irrigation we have launched in both directions: both to Sliven, to Tunja, and to Maritsa, which is Corten [[The President signals that time has expired.]] These are our options for this year. But if there's no rain this year, we'll have a problem next year. Every time in the schedules, we say, "Look for water sources." Nobody ever looks and then says, "Where's our water?" Well, every month we give you a little bit, a little bit more, a little bit more. Those are the possibilities. But you can always say, either there's no drinking or there's no farming or there's no fish or there's no ecology!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u166	Guide yourself to completion, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u167	What we do is balanced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u168	Thank you. There are no more questions for you. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to the last question for today, which is to the Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev from the National Representative Dragomir Stoinev, about the measures in the event of sports events. Mr. Stoinev, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! My question is about the measures that concern sports events, as you authorised the presence of an audience at sporting events after the country went through a very severe crisis in extremely severe measures and people expected that these austerity measures would continue. Suddenly, however, an audience began to appear in the Bulgarian stadiums, comparing them to England, where a team is worth approximately one billion pounds. I am talking about the teams from the first five of Spain, Italy, Germany, which first started the championships. There was no audience, but in our dear homeland, and with your enthusiasm, you allowed the presence of an audience, of football fans. And that's weird, because in the end, so many people suffered during those two months when we fought COVID-19, although we see that we can't fight it, and suddenly it was as if the infected people were becoming more and more. I say this because they came out as headlines: It's really quite disturbing. My question is, surprisingly, to understand: why did we have to put an audience in the Bulgarian stadiums, when we see that it is quite serious epidemiological situation in the country and it is normal to have government thinking and governance? And let's say, well, if we don't understand, we can't manage this process, let's at least watch what they're doing in England, Germany, Spain, Italy, France, not even resume their championship! I'm not saying we shouldn't renew it, but why did we have to let the audience go? Of course we do, but at the end of the day, you're a minister in charge of sports. You could have said, "Hey, guys, wait a minute! There doesn't have to be that many audiences here. We can wait, let us be like other countries! Or just tell us which country you took an example from so you could play the fans at the stadium? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u170	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Kralev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u171	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stoynev, the pandemic of COVID-19 and the necessary quarantine measures have negatively affected all sectors of socio-economic life not only in our country, but worldwide as well. The sport was one of the most affected sectors. During the state of emergency imposed in the country, both sports events and athlete training were effectively stopped. This was a necessary measure in order to be able to control the first wave of the pandemic in the country, and I believe that the measures imposed by the government were correct. At the same time, we are all aware that the virus will not disappear in three or four months, this is the new reality in the world, and we need to learn to live with this virus. There is no way that socio-economic life can be completely stopped for a long time. With the gradual loosening of the other quarantine measures began and the gradual loosening of restrictive measures affecting sporting events. The Ministry of Youth and Sports proposed to the National Operational Headquarters and the Ministry of Health a phased plan to resume the training competition of Bulgarian athletes, which was accepted and implemented. Initially, individual trainings of national contestants at certain national bases were allowed, gyms were opened, then group trainings were allowed outdoors and indoors in compliance with anti-epidemic measures. I would like to point out that the sports sector had the most detailed rules and anti-epidemic measures. The Bulgarian Football Union developed and sent to the Ministry of Youth and Sports a concept and guidelines for the renewal of the training competition process of professional football, which includes periodic monthly testing of football players, coaches, staff officials, electronic registry of each review, detailed measures to ensure disinfecting of stadiums and so on. The last step in terms of sport was to drop the ban on sporting competitions in front of an audience, which again happened gradually. I would like to point out that this whole cycle for restarting the Bulgarian sport lasted about 50 days. Initially it was allowed to have an audience for outdoor competitions up to 30% of the capacity, then an audience was admitted to sports activities indoors again up to 30% of the capacity. The last step was to allow the audience of sporting events to occupy up to 50% of the capacity of sports facilities. At the same time, during football matches, a restriction was imposed to allow audiences up to a thousand people in the sector. At this time in 15 countries in Europe football is played in front of fans. Among them are Poland, Hungary, Czech Republic, Lithuania, Croatia, Latvia, Denmark, Slovenia and Russia. Polemics caused the final match for the Bulgarian Cup on July 1st, which was allowed to allow up to three thousand people in the sector. We have complied with the desire of football fans and allowed the final number of people in the sector to be higher than a thousand people. This was not a retreat from the imposed measures because the final for the Cup of Bulgaria is played at the National Stadium Vasil Levski, whose capacity is 43 thousand people. In numbers, this means that at this sporting event we have allowed less than 30% of the capacity. In the rest of the stadiums of the country there is much smaller capacity, in them there is a rule of up to a thousand people per sector. I would like to point out here that for some of these stadiums four thousand people are less than 50% of the capacity. I think that for indoor events, which are allowed to fill up to 50% of the capacity, there are more prerequisites for spreading COVID-19 than for outdoor sports events in employment 30% of the stadium's capacity. Given that there was great interest in the final of the Cup of Bulgaria, I believe that the step was justified and because of the fact that we were absolutely certain that if the people wishing to enter the stadium would not be allowed in front of the doors. That's the kind of organization the fan clubs used to do. I think that would have been much more dangerous. There were clear prescriptions for all sporting events to be held under strict compliance with anti-epidemic measures. We appealed to fans to follow the measures, we relied on their consciousness to protect their health and that of others. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. The fact is that part of the anti-epidemic measures were not followed in the final of the Cup of Bulgaria and RZI imposed fines to the organizer.. The professional football league and private companies who provided the stewards for the match and allowed them to the stadium. Failure to comply with anti-epidemic measures has led to the issuing of a new order to the Minister of Health, and therefore mine, to prohibit sports events from allowing an audience from 10 July. To answer your question specifically: what is the need for sports to be played in public, I must also answer the questions of what is the need in theatres or other cultural entertainment events to have an audience. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Sport is no exception to social life. It was designed to be played in front of viewers. The suspension of the ban on sports events to be played in front of an audience happened at the same time as the loosening of measures in other areas. At 50% of total indoor capacity, congress conferences, seminars and exhibitions are also allowed. Under the same conditions work Chitalishtes, children's complexes, cultural homes, youth centers, military clubs, nightclubs outdoors and indoors.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u172	Guide to completion, Mr. Kralev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u173	I have two more sentences, if I may.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u174	Okay, two sentences can.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u175	Currently, the ban on sports competitions being held in front of an audience is still in force. Since yesterday it is allowed in racing athletes to 18 years old to be with one chaperone. I take this opportunity to call on all citizens to think again about their health and the health of others! The responsibility for our health lies with each and every one of us. I am a supporter of the thesis that those who break the rules should be sanctioned. But the easiest thing to sanction is to ban something, the harder is to restore normality. We must learn to live with the virus and be more disciplined. This is the task of all politicians as well as our society as a whole. And my final sentence. These football players in the professional league who are infected with the virus are not infected during football meetings. This is also the finding of epidemiologists who are working on the cases. Most of them were infected with the COVID-19 either at proms or at nightclubs. There are very few cases that have been specifically on the field, because there are really measures being taken there. Another is the issue, of course, with the audience, where control is much heavier, much more complicated. I'm sure you know that very well. There was a tough case of what kind of decision to make in this case. Unfortunately, some of the fans were not at the height of the compromise we made for them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u176	Thank you, Mr. Kralev. Because of you I have severely violated the Staff Regulations seven minutes instead of three. Mr. Stoinev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Kralev! Of course indoors are much more dangerous, but football matches can't be compared to theaters. You can't tell fans to have a distance between them, and anyone who's ever been to a football game knows that. I know what happens in football stadiums as a fan myself. Just shouldn't have been allowed the Bulgarian contestants, the Bulgarian fans to go to the matches. Why? Yes, you're right, there may be clashes outside, but this is your task now. By means of security measures, there will be a conflict the day after tomorrow for the title, but ultimately action will be taken so as to limit them. It's your duty! You suddenly let 12,000 people in one place who were screaming, screaming, hugging, some crying with grief, others crying with joy. In fact, I wonder if you wore a mask yourself during this match because I remember such footage? But in the end, you were supposed to be sent there to keep an eye on the situation. That was a gross mistake! Because for two months the Bulgarian citizens stayed at home, we thought about the Bulgarian medics: how they are doing, if they have the necessary funds, you, by the government, took all kinds of action to provide these funds. And when we had one little stroke, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, everybody in the stadiums. Rough management error, Mr. Kralev! And you should have intervened. There's no way we're gonna want to go down this hard road we're going down! There's gotta be some sense. Yes, we can compare ourselves to Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia and Poland, but at the same time see what the big championships are doing. The first championship to start was in Germany. There wasn't one person in Germany at the stadium. I don't understand this need, and I can really say that this was a huge mistake. Now, at the moment in Bulgaria we can talk about a country in which there is really a serious explosion about the coronavirus I am talking about whether it is due to what happened in the stadiums, whether for other reasons, but ultimately it is offensive when other European countries tell us: well we will not accept citizens from Bulgaria because they cannot deal with the problem. So we were going well, action was being taken, people were suffering, the medics were suffering, and suddenly the weather got better, and we let go of a gross mistake. And you, as Minister of Sports, were obliged to bring intelligence into the government not to take such action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u178	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. - Would you like a douche bag? You're hesitant, but you're still welcome to do a douche bag.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u179	Dear Mr. Stoynev, I just want to add to what I said, perhaps at the risk of repeating that the decision was difficult, but given that the stadium is very large, and I put out figures that show that the percentage ratio and the area that falls to a spectator, in no case violates the quarantine measures, on the contrary, this is perhaps the strictest restriction. The only mistake we've made is that we underestimated the opportunities of the stewards and the organizers of the competition to deal with this challenge. Before making that decision, of course, we were confident of them, we received all the guarantees and assurances that they would handle it. Unfortunately, they failed to cope during this meeting and were therefore sanctioned. I am far from convinced that, for example, the increased number of infected people is due only to one match. This is an example in which a very difficult decision had to be made, because the risk... The sector's got a lot more people than it was supposed to. They came in because they stormed the doors. If we'd cut the numbers, or if we hadn't let an audience, those same people would be out front, they'd create a riot, they'd still storm the stadium and go inside. So we tried with all the risk, of course, to reduce this tension a little bit, to create some order and some conditions for a normal course of the meeting. As I said, the problem there is accounted for and all those who failed in the organization of the event were sanctioned. At the moment, meetings are held without an audience. This will continue perhaps at the beginning of the next championship, at least until we are assured by all clubs that they will learn to comply with all the quarantine measures prescribed by the Ministry of Health, and will be so responsible not only to the audience, but also to their own competitors. As we can see, some clubs are sloppy even when conducting and observing the tests and the requirements that we have bothered to draw them up and develop. So I sincerely hope that they have learned their lesson and from now on there will be no more such mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-17.u180	Thank you, dear Minister, for participating in today's parliamentary control. That's what we're running out of the control program today. The next meeting of the National Assembly will be held on July 20, 2020, Monday, at 9:00 with a single point: "Project of a decision to vote distrust of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria, with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, because of the failure in the anti-corruption policy. In accordance with art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly voting on the Draft Decision shall be no earlier than 24 hours from the conclusion of the deliberations. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
