ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 53, para. 8 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I propose that an additional point should be entered in the Programme: Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Enterprises. Please, voting mode. They voted 129 MPs: 120 against 1, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Message: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that during the period from 24 to 31 October 2020, a trilateral joint training of soldiers from the Joint Command of the special operations of the Bulgarian Army and servicemen of the Forces for Special Operations of the Hellenic Republic and Romania will be held. In the joint preparation will be attended by soldiers from the Joint Command of the Special Operations of the Bulgarian Army, Forces for Special Operations of the Hellenic Republic and Forces for Special Operations of Romania with the necessary weapons and equipment. The preparation is not related to military operations and preparatory actions to conduct upcoming military operations, as well as to carrying out activities to prevent military actions led by other (other country or organisation) armed forces. The notification was received on 21 October 2020 by the Commission. No 003-09-89 and granted to the Defence Committee. We continue with the first item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS. Importer of the Council of Ministers, on 28 September 2020 Who will introduce us to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications Report? Go ahead, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u2	Thank you, Madam President. I am making a procedure for admission in the hall of Mrs. Andreana Atanasova "Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications."
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. I'd like my colleagues, who are not wearing masks, to put on their masks. Only on the stands can you without a mask. [[Heckling]] Please vote on access to the Chamber. Vote 157 MPs: 148 against 1, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Mr. Petrov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, I also propose that the Members of the National Assembly consider whether, in an emergency situation, we should not request and vote on a change in the Rules of Procedure. In the group of BSP there is a person with two positive samples, but I see that their spokesperson and greatest propagandist of freedom, Mr. Alexander Simov, enters and spreads everywhere possible droplets of the coronavirus. I ask that we really discuss and decide that people who are irresponsible to others should be removed from the chamber from the Quaestors.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. I don't think we should come to a change of regulations. It's a matter of consciousness. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] I see two colleagues from BSP for Bulgaria who are not wearing masks. Please put on your masks or leave the room! Please take a mask to Mr. Malinov or leave the room. Quaestors, take a mask to Mr. Malinov. Mr. Milushev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u6	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications, No 002-01-47, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 September 2020. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 7 October 2020, a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Electronic Communications was discussed, No 002-01-47, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 September 2020. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Andreana Atanasova, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technologies and Communications, and Mr. Ivan Dimitrov, Chairman of the Communications Regulation Commission. Mrs. Atanasova presented the Bill and pointed out that it was drawn up in fulfillment of the commitments of the Republic of Bulgaria as a Member State of the European Union to bring the Bulgarian legislation into line with the requirements of Directive (EU) 2018/1972 (European Code for Electronic Communications). The European Code for Electronic Communications requires the Member States of the EU to adopt and publish by 21 December 2020 the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with the national legislation in force with the new regulatory framework of the European Union in the field of electronic communications. The proposed Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Electronic Communications provides for several groups of more substantial changes. First of all, the conditions that may contain the general requirements and permissions for use of radio frequency spectrum, numbering resources and geostationary orbit position are refined. In this regard, the criteria to be taken into account when determining the mode of use of the spectrum are further developed...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u7	Mr. Milushev, just a moment. Mr. Malinov, I urge you to wear the mask the Quaestor just brought you. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to ask you to leave the room. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Put on your mask or leave the room! [[The National Representative Rosen Malinov is leaving the hall.]] Mr. Milushev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u8	...and when limiting the number of authorisations granted and providing for the possibility of setting conditions for shared use of radio spectrum. In order to ensure predictability in terms of infrastructure investment conditions, new rules are proposed, such as a time limit for the use of radio spectrum which may not be shorter than 15 years, with the possibility of extending to at least 20 years. New procedures and conditions shall be provided for the extension of authorisations for the use of harmonised spectrum, including wireless broadband services. Given the development of satellite communications at both global and national level and the need to provide conditions for the development of satellite services, provisions are proposed to regulate the submission of requests for the coordination of additional and new satellite systems of geostationary orbit, the order to pay fees, the provision of radio frequency spectrum for new and additional satellite systems of geostationary orbit, as well as for satellite systems of non-geostationary orbit. Mrs. Atanasova drew attention to the proposed amendments to the provisions relating to consumer rights. The introduction of new requirements on pre-contract and contractual information, transparency, quality of service, duration and renewal of the contract, security and access to emergency numbers, facilitates the process of portability of numbers and the change of providers of internet access services, better protection in the use of package services. Consumer protection rules are also intended to apply to services provided on the Internet as communication applications. The rules on the protection and processing of the personal data of end-users in the conclusion of a contract for electronic communications services are revised. The need for regulatory amendments in relation to the prevention of abuse in the purchase of end-users by end-users, as well as the introduction of the possibility of data exchange between undertakings, has also been reported. The Bill also proposes amendments relating to the implementation of some of the basic principles of complex administrative service and the requirements of the Administrative Procedure Code, the Law on limitation of administrative regulation and administrative control of business and the Law on e-government in order to avoid unjustified requirement that citizens and businesses provide information and documents already available in the administration. After the presentation of the bill, a discussion took place, which was attended by the MPs Halil Letifov, Dimitar Danchev, Pavel Hristov and Georgi Tarnovalyski, as well as representatives of the companies providing electronic communications services and/or networks. The debate prompted the proposal to introduce obligations to ensure access to electronic communications networks to businesses with a view to providing mobile virtual services. Following the vote, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 13 votes for the Council of Ministers and 6 votes abstentions proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Law on Electronic Communications, No 002-01-47, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 September 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Milushev. The second report is the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u10	♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications, No 002-01-47, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 September 2020. At a regular meeting held on 21 October 2020, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Electronic Communications, No 002-01-47, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 September 2020. The draft was presented by Mrs. Andreana Atanasova, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The meeting was attended by Mr. Dimitar Dimitrov, Director of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The importers point out that the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications has been drawn up in fulfilling the commitments of the Republic of Bulgaria as a Member State of the European Union to align the Bulgarian legislation with the requirements of Directive (EU) 2018/1972 (European Code for Electronic Communications). The European Code for Electronic Communications requires the Member States of the European Union to adopt and publish by 21 December 2020 the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with the national legislation in force with the new regulatory framework of the European Union in the field of electronic communications. According to the reasons proposed in the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications, amendments and additions are intended to reflect the new rules relating to radio spectrum management and use of radio spectrum, numbering resources and geostationary orbit positions; maximum harmonisation of requirements for the protection of end-users' rights, universal service and emergency calls; promoting competition, stimulating investments in networks with very high capacity and regulating access, including joint use. The proposed draft is expected to ensure a more efficient, efficient and coordinated use of radio spectrum; development of the electronic communications market; maintaining conditions for effective competition; setting up conditions for the construction and development of very high capacity networks, including 5G networks; improving the protection of the interests of citizens and the rights of end-users, including those with disabilities. As a result of the vote that took place after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds was asked by 4 votes for abstention and 1 vote for abstention and proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications, No 002-01-47, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 September 2020. Dragomir Stoynev (President of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. The next report is the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u12	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications, No 002-01-47, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 September 2020. At a meeting held on 22 October 2020, the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act discussed a Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Electronic Communications Act No 002-01-47 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 September 2020. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Dimitar Dimitrov a representative from the Ministry of Transport and Information Technology and Communications, Mr. Ivan Dimitrov, Chairman of the Communications Regulation Commission, Mr. Biser Borisov Mr. Dimitar Dimitrov presented the Draft Law and the reasons for its introduction in the part concerning amendments and additions in relation to storage and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications. The Law proposes that the State Agency "Technical Operations" for the implementation of its specific activities should not apply the Law in the implementation of electronic communications, as well as to be included as a member of the Council of the National Radio frequency spectrum of the Council of Ministers. The wording of art. 17, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on the provision of electronic communications in the hypotheses of military or emergency situations provided for in other regulations, and it is also proposed to be added in cases where an emergency is declared within the meaning of the Law on Counteracting Terrorism. It is proposed that the data should be stored and searched for a person who has committed a serious crime or is the victim of a serious criminal offence against the person. Proposals have been made in respect of art. Art. 251d1 251e of the Law, as well as the clarification of texts containing technical terminology and legal definitions. Opinions in support of the draft Law were received by the Ministry of Interior, Office of the Military Police and the State Agency of National Security and the State Agency of Industrial Operations and the companies providing public electronic communications networks and/or services. Mr. Biser Borisov "Deputy Chairman of the State Agency....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The President of the Commission, Mr. Dimitar Lazarov, noted that some of the proposals in the bill should comply with Constitutional Decision No 2 of 12 March 2015 of the Constitutional Court under the Act. No 8/2014 and with Decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 6 October 2020 in cases C-511/18, C-512/18, C-520/18 and C-623/17 and to clarify between the first and second votes for which the relevant proposals will be made. After the discussion held, in which the MPs expressed their support to the draft, the Commission with 4 votes for the draft, without votes.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. Now your attention is a Report of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. Here you go, Mr. Stoyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u14	Madam President, honourable Members! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications, No 002-01-47, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 September 2020. At its regular meeting on 21 October 2020, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications, No 002-01-47, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 September 2020. The meeting was attended by: Mrs. Andreana Atanasova, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Chief Commissioner Stoyan Temelakiev, Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Interior, Senior Commissioner Kalin Lenkov, Deputy Director of the Directorate-General of National Police and Mr. Ivan Dimitrov, Chairman of the Communications Regulation Commission. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by Mrs. Andreana Atanassova, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The main objectives of its introduction are to ensure the provision of modern and quality electronic communications services to the public and businesses through development of the market for electronic communications networks and services, provision of services of the fifth generation, effective and sustainable competition, interoperability of electronic communications services, accessibility, choice, security of networks and services, and equal access to disabled persons. The main measure to achieve these objectives is the introduction of the provisions of the new regulatory framework "Directive (EU) 2018/1972 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 establishing the European Code for Electronic Communications'. The amendments and additions proposed in the Project aim to reflect the new rules relating to radio spectrum management and use; maximum harmonisation of requirements for the protection of end-users' rights, universal service and emergency calls; promoting competition, stimulating investment in networks with very high capacity and regulating access, including joint use. The bill establishes a harmonised framework for synchronization between electronic communications, electronic networks and services, as well as an advanced public warning system for severe and emergency situations and disasters. Following the successful introduction of 112 as a single European emergency number and on the basis of the positive experience reported in the European Union, warnings are to be transmitted by mobile communications service providers with numbers to all end-users concerned. These systems will ensure that messages are sent to mobile phones to those affected in cases of imminent or serious emergencies in a relevant geographical area. The time limit for the implementation of such systems shall be until mid 2021. The Law provides for high-quality coverage and speed of radio spectrum, stimulates the development of high capacity networks, increases security mechanisms and maintaining security of communications networks and protection of the digital market. The bill provides for clear rules for coordinating and recording satellite networks meeting world standards and also reducing the administrative burden for citizens and businesses. All this increases the economic and political benefits of our country. Opinions in support of the draft Law were expressed by Mr. Ivan Dimitrov, Chairman of the Communications Regulation Commission, and by the Deputy Secretary of the Ministry of Interior Chief Commissioner Stoyan Temelakiev. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Electronic Communications, No 002-01-47, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 September 2020, the National Assembly proposed to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Electronic Communications, No 002-01-47, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 September 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoyanov. With the Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, Mr. Veselinov will introduce us. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u16	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications, No 002-01-47, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 21 October 2020, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications, No 002-01-47, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 September 2020. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Mrs. Andreana Atanasova Deputy Minister, and Mr. Dimitar Dimitrov Director of the Directorate of Legal and Communications Mr. Georgi Soulev, Head of the Department of Legal Affairs, representatives of the Bulgarian Association of Cable and Communication Operators BAKO. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Andreana Atanasova, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The proposed bill is drawn up in fulfillment of the commitments of the Republic of Bulgaria as a Member State of the European Union to bring the Bulgarian legislation into line with the requirements of Directive (EU) 2018/1972 (European Code for Electronic Communications). The European Code for Electronic Communications requires the Member States of the European Union to adopt and publish by 21 December 2020 the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with the national legislation in force with the new regulatory framework of the European Union in the field of electronic communications. The amendments and additions proposed in the Draft Law on Electronic Communications are intended to reflect the new rules relating to radio spectrum management and use of radio spectrum, numbering resources and geostationary orbital positions; the maximum harmonisation of requirements for the protection of end-users' rights, universal service and emergency calls; the promotion of competition, the promotion of investments in networks with very high capacity and the regulation of access, including joint use. The Commission received an opinion from the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, expressing the principle of support of the Bill and proposing changes concerning the activities of the local government bodies, their administrations and municipal enterprises. During the discussion the MPs expressed principled support for the bill. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 14 votes for the Council of Ministers, with no votes against the Council of Ministers, and 6 votes abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly a draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Electronic Communications, No 002-01-47, submitted by the Council of Ministers, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. The latest report belongs to the Committee on Culture and Media. Here you go, Mrs. Peeva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications, No 002-01-47, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 September 2020. At a regular meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, held on 8 October 2020, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications was discussed, No 002-01-47, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 September 2020. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications: Andreana Atanasova Deputy Minister; by the Council for Electronic Media (SEM) : Emilia Staneva Secretary General; by the Association of Bulgarian Radio and Television Operators (ABRO) : Anna Tanova Executive Director, Hristin Strizhlev and Eva Petrova; by the Bulgarian Association of Cable and Communication Operators (BACCO) : Galya Marinova Executive Director. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Andreana Atanasova. The proposed bill aims to bring the Bulgarian legislation into line with the requirements of Directive (EU) 2018/1972 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 establishing a European Code for Electronic Communications. The European Code for Electronic Communications is an element of significant reform of the European Union regulatory framework for electronic communications to ensure a very high quality of fixed and mobile connectivity for all citizens and businesses, which is considered a key factor for a competitive economy and a modern inclusive digital society. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Communications shall seek to reflect new rules relating to: - radio spectrum management and use of radio spectrum, numbering resources and geostationary orbit positions; - the maximum harmonisation of requirements for the protection of the rights of end-users, universal service and emergency calls; - the promotion of competition, the promotion of investments in very high capacity networks and the regulation of access, including joint use. The opinions sent to the Committee on Culture and Media by the Council for Electronic Media, the Association of Bulgarian Radio and Television Operators and the Bulgarian Association of Cable and Communication Operators support the bill. In their opinion, the ABRO propose changes in relation to the administrative annual control fee, the adoption of a Plan for the testing of terrestrial digital broadcasting of radio programs, the period for the licences issued by the SEM for the creation of radio programmes, as well as the requirements for persons holding the position of a member of the Communications Regulation Commission. The Council for Electronic Media in their opinion pays attention to the terminological changes proposed by the Law on Electronic Communications and the need to align them. The media regulator supports ABRO's proposals to adopt a Plan for the testing of terrestrial digital radio broadcasting and the time limit for the issued licences for the creation of radio programmes. During the discussion on the bill took the MPs Krasimir Velchev, Anastas Popdimitrov and Nona Yotova. The questions were answered by Andreana Atanasova, Emilia Staneva and Anna Tanova. Following a vote, MPs from the Committee on Culture and Media unanimously proposed to the National Assembly with 17 votes to adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Law on Electronic Communications, No 002-01-47, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 September 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u19	Thank you, dear Mrs. Peeva. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u20	Madam President, honourable Members! The Law on Electronic Communications is too technological, complex, specific and difficult to understand, but its regulations regulate business in the sector. After all, they reach every Bulgarian citizen who pays electronic and mobile services, which in Bulgaria turns out to be one of the highest prices in Europe. The bill amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications is indeed related to the introduction of the requirements of the Directive and of the European Code on Electronic Communications. However, the Transposition should not be limited to the formal incorporation of the provisions in the Bulgarian legislation or to the formal translation of the directive itself. I believe that in some parts of the transposition of the Code, the principle of guaranteeing the useful effect of the Directive has not been leading or not been respected. In principle, national norms cannot make practical or extremely difficult protection, the rights that private individuals draw from the Directive. Bulgaria must implement harmonised European radio spectrum policies, as well as new European legislation promoting competitiveness and investment in the sector. In the proposed Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications, the possibility of sharing the network of existing mobile operators with other telecommunications operators is very positive and in practice this will be a non-working text because in the Law in art. 106a, para. 5 is recorded that the Commission does not prevent shared use of radio spectrum. What's this about, guys? When the directive was adopted in Brussels, everyone was sure that the establishment of a new approach to shared use of the network resource would unlock the competition in this sector and as a result the Bulgarian citizens and the Bulgarian business would receive a more quality and cheaper service. With the proposed text, however, this will not happen. The mobile operators in Bulgaria will remain three and virtual ones will not operate. The practice shows that no operator has ever allowed a foreign operator to access its network. Bulgaria is the only country, not only in the European Union, but also throughout continental Europe, which has no active alternative or virtual mobile operator. Now is the time, colleagues, to enter virtual mobile operators. If we allow this not to happen, the prices of mobile services in Bulgaria will continue to grow precisely for this reason. We will be responsible for this because we have not responded to this injustice. In this way, we will protect the interests of monopolies in this sector. There are different options for solving the problems that are already good practices in Europe. There are options, colleagues, but I have a feeling that there is no political will not to say something stronger, such as protecting the monopoly in this sector. During the public discussion of the Law on the part of the industry, proposals were made in this direction. They weren't accepted. Under the legislative and parliamentary procedure, we will make our proposal in this direction. Colleagues, I pay attention to this particular text of art. 106a, which needs to protect the Bulgarian users of mobile services. Now is the time to open the door of virtual operators so that we can improve the conditions for using mobile services, improve quality and reduce prices, of course, because this concerns a huge part of Bulgarian citizens and Bulgarian businesses. There is something else that I also consider important. Of the more than 600 Internet operators registered in the Commission who are potential users of these opportunities are 100% Bulgarian, and the operating three operators in Bulgaria, as you know, are not. I cannot agree with the opinion expressed by importers, in the face of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, to regulate the provision of radio frequency spectrum by mobile operators, virtually, would violate European legislation. This is at least not serious, colleagues. How is it that throughout Europe this process has passed and worked and in Bulgaria this is a violation of European law? The practice of most telecommunication regulators in the Member States of the European Union is the introduction of an obligation to share the spectrum when providing new frequency bands to existing mobile operators, such as a process in Bulgaria is about to take place. In this way we must protect the interest of Bulgarian consumers, Bulgarian citizens, in order to have a fair and low price. We will make our proposals, and I will abstain at this stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Turnovallisky. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications, No 002-01-47, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 September 2020. They voted 136 MPs: 98 against 11, abstention 27. The motion is accepted. Moving on to point two: FIRST VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND THE COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR PUBLICS, No 054-01-94. Importer Daniela Daritkova and group of MPs on 9 October 2020. The Economic Policy and Tourism Committee report will introduce us to Mr. Kanev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u22	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Public Enterprise Act No 054-01-94 submitted by Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs on 9 October 2020. At its regular meeting on 21 October 2020, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Enterprises Act. The bill presented by the National Representative Daniela Daritkova aims to extend the deadline to align the compositions of the management and control bodies of public undertakings with the requirements of the Law. Such an approach is currently taken in relation to medical establishments under art. 63, para. 3 of the Law on Medical Institutions. With the extension of the deadline, all other public undertakings which have failed to comply with the compositions of their management bodies will be allowed to do so within 16 months of the entry into force of the Public Enterprises Act. In the course of the discussion the people representative Hristo Prodanov said that the extension of the deadline is necessary given the announced websites of many of the ministries upcoming competitions. He expressed his view that this was done in breach of the Law on Public Enterprises, as the selection and conduct of competition procedures was entrusted as an obligation of the Agency for Public Enterprises and Control. After presenting and discussing the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, in the first vote, a bill amending and supplementing the Public Enterprises Act, No 054-01-94, submitted by Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs on 9 October 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. Colleagues, you have a say in this. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! At the beginning of my speech, I will take you back a little bit in time to make it clear what was the principled and consistent position of the Bulgarian Socialist Party on the Law on State Enterprises and Government as a whole of state enterprises. Four or five years ago, we introduced such a bill into the National Assembly, the main task of this bill was to really establish a procedure and way in which to choose the management and supervisory bodies of the state enterprises, to avoid the possibility, as it is so far, to make party appointments to the ladybirds, which, in many cases where they participate in the competitions, are actually appointed to undertakings and responsible for activities of which they absolutely do not understand. Then you of the ruling majority rejected this bill. About a year ago, when you decided to bring Bulgaria into ERN-2, there were two main requirements from the European institutions. One was related to the capitalization of the banking sector, of the individual banks, and the second main requirement was to adopt a Law on Public Enterprises, which really regulates the selection and appointment of professionals in the management of state-owned enterprises. What did you do on the first requirement for banks? We remember. You gave 140 million. lv. State money from a private bank and at double the market price you bought shares from this bank. The second thing you had to do was pass this Law on Public Enterprises. Yes, you accepted it, but in the end you didn't do it. You didn't meet it because the deadlines set under this bill expired 10 days ago? on 11 October, and so far we have no realization of any of what is written in the Public Enterprises Act. The other thing we have as claims, such as remarks to the approach that you continue to treat on this subject, is that you corrupt procedures. Despite the requirements of the Law, the new boards of state enterprises and the control and control bodies to be elected by the Commission to the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Agency, a committee which is one of the professionals who understands from the selection of personnel, again on the websites of all ministries last week appeared for competitions for appointment of the Boards of Directors, which is in absolute conflict with what the Law says and the requirements of the Rules for the Implementation of this Law. The other thing that bothers us and disturbs us is the same criteria that are announced for all directors. Each of you can open the websites of the different ministries and check what are the requirements for the principal seats of the different boards. They're copies of the Rules, they're all the same. Colleagues, do you think it is normal to be the same requirements for the Director of the State Enterprise Fruit, Vegetables and Flower Exchange with the requirements for the Director of the Nuclear Power Plant, Kozloduy, for example, or for the Director of the Bulgarian Post Office, or for the Director of Bulgarian State Railways and so on? This is, in our view, unacceptable and here is the work of the ministries, each of the principals, to give the necessary specifics required for the undertaking concerned to that committee, to the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control, and to the Commission, in accordance with these requirements, to make the selection and then to return the candidates ranked at the first places to the ministry concerned, to the relevant principal to carry out the appointment of these personnel. The other thing that concerns us in the approach that you have taken in the last few weeks, as I said, in these contests is an obvious lack of politics. In our view, the principal, the various ministers and government must set the necessary tasks and business plans to be implemented by the newly appointed management companies, because, in our view, through state-owned enterprises, the state can make a policy, whether it be social, or to fill the budget through commercial companies. And at the moment, state enterprises are only and only used as a state feeder for party ladybugs and for draining the funds from state enterprises. That is why we do not agree with the fact that the state was a bad owner. The state is a bad owner when the owner of the state is bad. However, there is an opportunity for the state to be a good owner if the provisions of this law that we are talking about are fulfilled. Since this is the situation, as I said at the beginning of my speech that the legal deadlines have already expired, we of the Bulgarian Socialist Party will support this proposal, and we will make further proposals between first and second readings. We will support this proposal only and only in order to be able to extend really sufficiently the deadline for fulfilling the criteria and rules adopted in the Law to really stop once and for all with the party appointment of the so-called on-boarders and to really start to choose some professional management bodies of state-owned enterprises to restore and strengthen them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Prodanov. Do we have any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mrs. Daritkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The only provision that we offer to the attention of the National Assembly with the amendment of the Public Enterprises Act is precisely the time limit for bringing the management and control bodies of all public undertakings in line with the requirements of this Act to increase by 16 months. This amendment has already been adopted by the Chamber of Health and now in relation to the fact that the management bodies of public undertakings have failed to comply with the Public Enterprises Act within the time limit, it is necessary to increase that period by another four months. Despite the comprehensive, extensive and non-compliant legislative texts that we are discussing today, the pleadings of our fellow Members, I would like to emphasise that I sincerely hope that this sabotage of the rapid adoption of the Law will not lead to a violation of the Rules, because I believe that between first and second reading only amendments should be made to this single paragraph that we have adopted, that is, only within the time limit... [[Heckling]] Please be quiet in the hall, don't get excited! I believe that, indeed, what you are constantly appealing for between first and second readings not to make amendments to other texts of the Law will be fulfilled by you, otherwise I see double standards again. Our memory isn't short! We also remember the Rule of the Boards before, in other governments, when you were dominant in a union with other political forces. At the same time, I really think that such texts, which give a simple solution, should be adopted unanimously, should not be politicised and not used for political propaganda, because this again gives bad signs and again does not speak in favour of parliamentaryism. My fellow Members, I really believe that this bill should be supported and should be adopted in the shortest possible time, because the only thing that is being done in it is an extension of the deadline for the implementation of public undertakings by four months, in accordance with the requirements of this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u27	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u28	Dear Mrs Daritkova, first of all, we are having some meetings and conversations to assess whether what you are proposing for four months is enough or not enough. Because there are a lot of opinions that it won't be enough. So I said in my speech that we would support the bill only and only so that the Law could be implemented, and we want to call you, if you really were to call for its implementation, to take an initiative to immediately end the so viciously announced competitions, as I said in each of the ministries, on the websites of each of the ministries, so that once this deadline is extended long enough, there would be sufficient time for the procedure to be followed as it is under the Law and not as you imagine it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Prodanov. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Public Enterprises Act, No 054-01-94, submitted by Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs on 9 October 2020. They voted 115 MPs: 105, against 5, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u30	Madam President, I propose that the deadline for proposals between first and second readings on this bill be reduced to three days.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u31	Thank you. Please vote on the procedure so made. They voted 113 MPs: 91, against 18, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u32	Colleagues, we continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. There are no new requests for the period from 16 October to 22 October 2020. I will provide written answers to questions from Members of the National Assembly: - from the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Dessislava Taneva to a question from the National Representative Georgi Stoilov; - from the Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov to a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva; - from the Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov to a question from the National Representative Nikolai Ivanov; - from the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Dessislava Taneva to a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - from the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Dessislava Taneva to a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Daniel Yordanov and Nikolay Penev; - from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to a question from the National Representative Cyril Kalfin; - from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to a question from the MPs Georgi Svilenski, Manol Genov and Dimitar Danchev; - from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - from the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Dessislava Taneva to a question from the National Representative Yavor Bozhankov; - from the Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov to a question from the National Representative Yavor Bojankov; - from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to a question from the MP Yavor Bojankov. We continue with questions to Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Minister of Finance. He will answer a question from MP Krum Zarkov about the bankruptcy of the company Olympik and the measures taken to support the damaged Bulgarian citizens. Mr. Zarkov is gone. Mr. Minister, to Mr. Zarkov you will respond to the next parliamentary control. Now a question from the National Representative Rumen Gechev on the achieved collection of public government claims.. the fees payable by the gambling business for the period 2015 - 2019. Here you are, dear Mr. Gechev, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u33	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleague Ananiev! At the beginning of 2020, the Minister of Finance announced that due to an unexplained oversight in quotes, I believe that his subordinate State Gambling Commission missed public government claims in the form of fees on the gambling business of Mr. Vasil Bozhkov amounting to around 700 million. lv. for the period 2015 - 2019 In view of the extremely high amount of the country's missed budget revenues, please reply: what is the exact amount of the outstanding fees collected so far from the gambling business and what is their percentage compared to the total? What specific measures have been taken, what is their effectiveness so far, and how long do you expect to collect the due claims? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u34	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u35	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Professor Gechev! As you have been repeatedly informed, almost 100% of the public government claims of the gaming organisers for the period 2015 - 2019 have been formed after the issue of 14 February 2020 by the President of the already closed State Gambling Commission of a total of 8 acts establishing public government claims. The actions are against four gambling operators, namely.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 109,000. BGN 261, of which state fees 872,000. BGN 283. In addition, the Commission notes that the Commission considers 236 thousand. BGN 979. As of 8 August 2020, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/1333 [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 8 August 2016 to 25 August 2020. The date of entry into force of the Law amending and supplementing the Gambling Act, with effect from which the State Gambling Commission is closed, no amounts have been received on the Commission's account on the basis of the above-mentioned acts. I recall that, on 19 February 2020, by letter of the State Gambling Commission, the above eight acts were sent by competence to the National Revenue Agency to take action in the forced collection of public claims established by them. They are appealed by the organizers of gambling, on which before the Administrative Court of Sofia-City, legal proceedings are still pending to challenge their legality. With regard to the achieved collection of public government claims from the gambling business for the period 2015 - 2019, I inform you of the following: For the period 2015 - 2019, the NRA charged unpaid fees under the Gambling Act in total of 139 thousand. BGN 727, including BGN 138,000. £700. The principal, and 1027 leva. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The amounts collected in the NRA for the repayment of those debts amount to 75 thousand. BGN 567, which is 41.4% of the amount of claims made on those acts, together with the interest accrued in the NRA for delay of 42 thousand. 922 lv. In addition, in 2020 the NRA was charged for the forced collection of unpaid fees under the Gambling Act, amounting to a total of 694 million. 215 thousand. BGN 808, including 556 million. 872,000. BGN 727. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the 343 thousand. £82. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm For the recovery of those claims, enforcement proceedings have been initiated under the DPC and protective measures have been imposed on all of the established property, both movable and immovable, and the assets of the debtors; their claims from third debtors, including banks, shares, trademarks and others. At present, some of the precautionary measures imposed by the public contractors of the NRA have been appealed in court and have not acquired stability. However, the amounts collected in the NRA for the repayment of those liabilities on 21 October 2020 amounted to 8 million. 418 thousand. £640. The actions in the enforcement proceedings initiated under the DCC shall continue with the implementation being directed to the secured assets/assets of the interim measures entered into force. It is necessary to take into account that the distribution of the amounts received in the course of the PPC enforcement proceedings is carried out in compliance with the provision of art. 219, para. 1 of it. In view of the above, the Commission concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1 et c. 2 of the same subparagraph, tax, customs and insurance contributions are paid as a priority, with the remainder being paid out of the obligations of the next order............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In conclusion, I would like to assure you that the NRA, which is also the successor of the State Gambling Commission, will continue active actions to secure and collect all the above-mentioned public government claims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u36	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The line, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u37	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, it is clear from your answer that the National Revenue Agency has collected crumbs BGN, 8 million BGN and 700 million. lv. have not been collected because, Mr. Minister, the National Revenue Agency and the Gambling Commission appointed by your ministry most likely in criminal agreement with representatives of gambling have deprived the state of 700 million. BGN, and they're probably more. And you won't collect anything, Minister, as you didn't say that the Administrative Court of Sofia-City has begun to cancel the acts of NRA Sofia. Two acts have been canceled. In order not to take up the time, I will only say that by Decision No 5258 of 29 September 2020 of the Court of Justice of the Nineth Chamber, Sofia, published on 9 October 2020, the acts of the Sofia Directorate of the NRA are repealed. Why are they canceling? Because the acts are unlawful, because there is no evidence. There are two options here to cancel the first two acts for nearly 300 million. lv. and I want you to answer this question: firstly, why have these acts of the NRA failed? They'll be ruined and the others, most likely. Firstly, because they are professionally incompetent in the Territorial Directorate of the NRA and in the management of the NRA. Or, secondly, acts are deliberately filed that are unprofessionally prepared and they know that there is no way to accept them and remain their money in gamblers. And now the account's open, they can transfer their money wherever they want and the state won't collect crumbs. My question is: are they incompetents in the Territorial Directorate of Sofia? First question. If they're incompetent, when are you going to fire them today? And second: have they intentionally filed incompetent documents, which the Bulgarian court returns and when will you give them to the prosecution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u38	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Professor Gechev, neither is true. Neither are the incompetent people who work in the Territorial Directorate of the NRA, nor are the materials prepared with gaps or false things. It is a matter of judicial proceedings that enforcement cases are carried out in all other cases. That's what the Sofia City Court decided, that's what he ordered, and that's what he made. I can't blame my colleagues for the things you blame them for. On the basis of the activity of these territorial directorates of the NRA, the entire public sector exists and is supported. With each passing year, they increase the revenue allocated to finance the budget sector. Even this year, under the conditions of a pandemic, they once again manage in a brilliant way. So at the very least, it's incorrect to accuse your NRA colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u40	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We'll continue with the next question. The question is from Mr. Zarkov about the bankruptcy of the company Olympik and the measures taken to support the damaged Bulgarian citizens. You have the floor, dear Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u41	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Minister, in the summer of 2018 a Cypriot insurance company was bankrupt, which functioned on the territory of Bulgaria and around 200,000 Bulgarian citizens were wronged by this fact. We called a special meeting of the National Assembly on the case and on 21 August 2018 we made a decision regarding the withdrawal of the license of this company, in which we entrusted the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Finance with the Financial Supervision Commission to take action to seek the opportunity to provide assistance to the persons involved with the company Olimpik. In implementing the same decision, the responsible ministers reported to the National Assembly and their report made it clear that the claims of the persons for the part of the insurance premiums under the insurance insurance insurances under the previously terminated contracts are not guaranteed by Cyprus's compensation scheme and should be made in general in the liquidation proceedings of the company, that is, the damaged Bulgarian citizens must appear before the competent Cypriot court in order to protect their rights. As for those claims of persons who have been damaged by cars that are held liable in this company, they do not fall within the statutory scope of the liability of the Bulgarian Guarantee Fund and should be treated under the 1995 Convention on the Right to Regress between Guarantee Funds in the European Union, to which they are both Bulgaria and Cyprus. It turns out, however, that in order to trigger this convention, it is necessary to conclude an additional agreement.......... between the Bulgarian and the Cypriot guarantee fund. There's no such thing so far. In view of that, two years later, I ask you, Minister, to answer me: What specific help has she given or is ready to give our country to the rightful Bulgarian citizens in order to protect their interest in the foreign court? Secondly, what are the relations between the Bulgarian and Cyprus guarantee fund, i.e. the possibility of the Bulgarian citizens to receive their due benefits? And thirdly, what measures has been taken or plans to take our country to ensure more effective protection of Bulgarian citizens in the event of bankruptcy of an insurance company having its registered office in another Member State of the European Union but exercising its activities in Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u42	You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u43	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Zarkov, the procedure for liquidation of the company Olimpik "AD" was opened by decision of 30 July 2019 of the District Court in the city. Nicosia, published on 23 August 2019 in the Official Journal of the Republic of Cyprus. This decision appointed two joint liquidators of the insurance company and initiated the claim making process of the parties concerned. The liquidation of the company Olympik AD, its legal consequences, as well as the powers of the joint liquidators, are governed by the national law of the State of origin of the insurance company, the Republic of Cyprus. In this process the legal opportunities for cooperation by the Bulgarian state and the Bulgarian state institutions are too limited and are limited to the possibility of collecting and distributing information that could be of benefit to the stakeholders. Following the opening of the liquidation proceedings, the Financial Supervision Commission requested relevant information from the insurance supervisory authority in the Republic of Cyprus and from the appointed liquidators. On the basis of the information received, the Financial Supervision Commission prepared and published on its website information to all interested parties in order to protect their claims rights to liquidators. At the initiative of the Bulgarian country was held a meeting with the liquidators of the company Olympic and representatives of the insurance company. Liquidators have committed themselves to continue the claim process after the original 35-day period has expired. The liquidators have undertaken to provide additional information on the subsequent phases of liquidation and distribution of the company's assets, including to prepare and provide an initial report on the company's condition and assets within 6 months. After the opening of the liquidation proceedings of the company Olympik, in the Financial Supervision Commission 36 inquiries were processed in connection with this proceedings, as well as 7 complaints against the insurance company. With regard to your second question, I inform you that the Bulgarian Guarantee Fund and the Cypriot Guarantee Fund have exchanged official written positions on the applicability of the Convention on the Right of Regress between Guarantee Funds since 1995. Since the Cypriot Guarantee Fund has refused the application of the Convention and taking responsibility for the insurance contracts concluded with the In the absence of a coherent selection of an arbitrator between the two guarantee funds, the arbitrator shall be appointed by the President of the Council of Bureaus. At present, there is a legal dispute between the two guarantee funds concerning the applicability of the 1995 case-by-case Convention, which is subject to arbitration and at this stage it is not possible to predict the outcome of the proceedings. As regards your third question, Mr. Zarkov, as a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I am sure you are aware that there is currently no harmonised framework at European Union level in the area of compensation for insurance users. A possible solution, in the event of the insolvency of an insurance company having its registered office in another Member State, which operates in Bulgaria under the conditions of the right of establishment or the freedom to provide services, would be a possible change of the model on which the Bulgarian Insurance Fund operates. The scope of the national compensation scheme may also be extended to all insurance undertakings with their registered office in other Member States of the European Union in order to be able to provide protection in the case of insolvency of insurance undertakings with its registered office in other Member States of the European Union, and such insurers should also be obliged to participate in the financing of the Bulgarian compensation scheme. However, this possibility has not been preferred at the moment, as two initiatives are being implemented at EU level to harmonise the regime of insurance compensation schemes. The draft amendment to the Motor directive proposed the introduction of a harmonised compensation mechanism in the event of the insolvency of an insurance provider providing compulsory insurance to motorists. This legislative proposal of the European Commission is in the final stage of negotiations within the framework of the Trialog between the Council of the European Union, the European Parliament and the European Commission. A new legislative proposal from the European Commission for a comprehensive harmonisation of insurance compensation schemes is expected next year in the framework of the revision of Directive Since the trend in both projects at European level in relation to compensation schemes is for applying the principle of the Member State of origin of the insurance company applied by the Bulgarian Insurance Fund, we do not consider it necessary to take temporary legislative measures at national level to change the model of the Bulgarian compensation scheme. The future European legislation is expected to confirm that, in the event of insolvency of an insurance company by a Member State of the European Union operating in the territory of other Member States, the responsible compensation scheme for injured persons in insolvency will be the scheme in the Member State of the European Union at the seat of the insurance officer. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the opportunity to run out of answers.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u44	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Zarkov, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u45	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I assure you that I am familiar with the difficulty of the entire case. We discussed it two years ago here in the National Assembly. Everything you say today was pretty predictable back then. Where does the responsibility of the Bulgarian State come from? This is not a free market. This is a market under the supervision of a special regulator. There are two kinds of damaged people. Some are the ones who have lost their civic responsibility. Paid in whole or in part, she's leaving. That's up to a few hundred leva. It's a tough problem. But a more severe problem is for those who have been damaged by a person who has insurance in this company, they or their loved ones have been hit by a car, and then years of legal disputes have passed in Bulgaria with this company to reach some compensation. And on this thing all of a sudden, even though they have a judgment in force, even though all this hell has passed from the very damage to his legal recognition and compensation now nothing! In other words, the Bulgarian state cannot be satisfied just to send them to the competent court. And hence my particular reasoning on your answer. In addition to collecting and distributing information that is, by the way, not so easily accessible, check on the Financial Supervision Commission's website. Much more than the 36 people who wrote were trying to find her. Many of them have contacted us as well. The decision of the National Assembly is directed to seek legal assistance as necessary, which the Bulgarian State will give to these people in the insolvency proceedings before the Cypriot court. This means that the Bulgarian state should also inform them that there is such an opportunity, to commit and to go to really claim their rights. Regarding the Guarantee Fund and the Bulgarian legislation. Two years ago, we proposed such measures and were rejected so as not to set a precedent. I can understand to some extent this argumentation, but the truth is that the Cyprus Guarantee Fund has shown, or the arbitration shows it that they are not cooperating in this direction, although at the beginning of the process we were assured otherwise. Therefore, we cannot just wait for arbitration and we must seek, including the help of the European Commission and the European institutions working on these problems, to introduce them to the case, because this hole where you are guaranteed, if you are hit by a person without civil liability, you are guaranteed if you are hit by a person who has a civil liability concluded in a country outside the Union, but you are not guaranteed when you are hit by a person with a signed civil liability in a country of the Union, but operating in your country under European Union law, is a threat to European citizens, as are the Bulgarians. We have here a specific case which we must set out in the context of drawing up new European legislation. I'm done, Mr. Chairman. We cannot and should not simply tell the people of these 200,000 people: drink a cold water that has happened. We must continue to work and not just on the line of arbitration. Once again, we must carefully check whether legislative amendments are necessary in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u46	Thank you. Mr. Minister, the doppelganger? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u47	Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Zarkov, we think the same way. It is natural that we have notified all the European institutions and, as I mentioned in my presentation, it is currently working hard to harmonise this legislation through European regulations which will be binding on all countries. Let us wait to see the decision of the European institutions, because in the event of such a decision, we do not need to make changes to national legislation in such a fast pace at the moment, which then eventually adapt to European decisions. You are right. It is urgent to take such measures, such decisions. We are working in this direction and, of course, we are also in contact with the European institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u48	Thank you, Minister. Thank you for participating in the parliamentary control. We continue to ask Minister Sacheva. The question is from the MPs Georgi Gokov, Vesela Lecheva, Violeta Zheleva, Milko Nedyalkov, Nadia Klisurska and Polina Alexandrova on the policy of improving the adequacy of pensions in Bulgaria in the short and long term. Mrs. Klisurska, are you going to set the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u49	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Minister Sacheva! The inconsistent and chaotic actions of the government, especially in recent years, have led to serious distortions, debalance, distortion of the pension model. With them, the justice laid down in the Social Security Code was violated. And today, when over a million. And 300,000. Bulgarian pensioners live below the poverty line, you offer nothing adequate, nothing consistent, nothing that brings clarity and predictability to what will happen tomorrow. You are aware that the scissors between the old and the newly released pensions are huge, even though people have the same individual coefficient, the same internship, but the average monthly insurance income has increased three times, and it is the basis on which they are calculated and the difference in pensions reaches between 100 and 200 BGN. for the same profession. Recalculation is a solution, but on this point you do nothing. On the contrary, you are deepening the problems. The advance growth of only the minimum pension has led to the small contribution and those who have contributed much larger insurance amounts being already leveled. That totally shook up the belief in the pension system. It has become an instrument of politics, but I would say a forceful one whose bitter fruit will be harvested for the next years. The signals to young people are that there is no point in paying their real insurance. Not to mention the second pillar, which next year will most likely damage the first to receive two pensions, which will be less than one. Unfortunately, there is no clarity and adequate proposals on this issue as well. In this regard, dear Mrs. Sacheva: what will be the policy of the government to protect the interests of Bulgarian pensioners, present and future, to improve the adequacy of pensions in the short and long term? What are the views of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the government to increase the amount of pensions? What will be the rules for the next fiscal year when they are updated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u50	Thank you. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u51	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Klisurska, pensions are a major source of income for a large, increasing number of European Union citizens - approximately a quarter of them - therefore they are crucial for maintaining living standards after retirement and for preventing poverty among the elderly. In this regard, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is pursuing a policy aimed at providing legal and financial opportunities to increase all pensions. The Draft Law on the State Social Security Budget 2021, which was approved by the Supervisory Board of the National Insurance Institute, took important steps to raise the income of all pensioners. Unlike previous years, when the minimum and maximum pension amounts have changed since 1 July, in 2021 their amounts will be increased from 1 January. With the proposed increase of the minimum amount of the pension for internship and age of 250 BGN. 300 leva. raise its size by 20 percent. This leads to an increase in the minimum size of the other pensions for employment, which are defined in a percentage of the pensions for disability due to a general illness, due to an accident or occupational disease and inherited pensions. Also by 20 percent from 1 January next year the maximum amount of the received one or more pensions is increased from 1200 BGN. At BGN 1440. From 1 July 2021, all pensions relating to employment which have been allocated by the end of the previous year will be updated under the so-called Swiss rule by 5 percent. From that date, it is also intended to raise the amount of social pension for old age by 5 per cent, which will lead to an increase in the amounts and other non-employment pensions, such as: social pension for invalidity, military or civil invalidity pension, the foreign aid supplement and others. In 2020, in relation to the emergency situation due to the spread of COVID-19, part of the government's socio-economic measures package of August began monthly payment of additional amounts of BGN 50. to the pensions of all pensioners. The aim of the funds provided is to provide support to them, as they are part of the vulnerable groups of the spread of COVID-19. The payment of the supplements is also envisaged to continue during the first three months of 2021, as set out in the Draft Law on the State Social Security Budget. As a result of these measures it is envisaged that the average amount of pension per pensioner in 2021 will reach BGN 488,97. In the case of an average size for 2020 The nominal increase is BGN 412,28, i.e. 18,6 per cent. With regard to the issue of the long-term policy to improve the adequacy of pensions, I would like to point out that, in order to achieve this objective, significant changes have been made in the social security legislation as early as 2015. I believe that at this stage it is necessary to continue the implementation of the planned measures, part of which is the smooth increase in the required insurance service and the retirement age, to continue the annual update of pensions under the Swiss rule. I would like to assure you that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy will continue to look for opportunities to increase the income of elderly people.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u52	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Zheleva, you have the floor for two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u53	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, one of the most important issues in Bulgaria's pension system is the moment when we see that the gap between the old and the new pensions is growing. The question here is, are we looking for a mechanism to deal with this? No, there's no such mechanism at this point. We have seen several consecutive promises, several different measures, but in fact we have come to the most unfair approach, or we are increasing the lowest pensions by 20%, and all the rest by only 5%. Let us recall that in previous years this increase under the so-called Swiss rule was 5.7% in the previous year and 6.7% in 2020, and now what we see now is that it will be even reduced. This is not a recalculation or indexing rather to the Swiss rule, it is not respected. You have turned the pension system in Bulgaria and personally the National Insurance Institute into a bank. What's going on? Those who are now retiring, if I may say so myself, will receive a higher percentage in retirement. The following year, however, this percentage will be reduced and so each year this difference is increased. The National Insurance Institute should not be converted into a bank. Social policy must have clear objectives. You said a few words about long-term policy, but I think there is no long-term vision. When you have social goals, but you have no results, then the social system gets confused. Why am I saying this? When we have measures under the pretext that they are related to the crown crisis, with care for the people in this situation and we throw billions just like that, a piece without having a concrete result, there will be no result because these 50 leva. will be, as we understand, a temporary measure. This will not cause the poor in Bulgaria to be less permanently. The pension system has been swinging for 10 years. Why is he swinging? We've all seen it. Because we have been from elections for 10 years and again, instead of having clarity in the pension system, because it is very complicated and dependent on all of us, and the stability of our financial system too, we see that once again we only get election promises, all the more so that they will not even be respected, as we have seen in the proposed budget of state social security. The second very important topic that has been discussed in these few days, and should have been spoken about much earlier, these are the so-called second pensions that pensioners should receive in 2021. The Social Security Code states that funds do not guarantee positive returns for citizens or we do not say what the loss of universal pension funds is currently in this situation. People do not know what low profitability means or in short, if you have to explain it to them, it is a waste of money. We are not talking about this because a large part of the pensioners will be damaged and will lose some of their second pensions. [[(Comments from GERB:]] Best in this case, and this will be my supplementary question: what happens to the second pension payment phase, and will the individual pension calculation factor from the National Insurance Institute be reduced for the fact that people have been provided in the second pillar? I'm graduating and I'm going to give an example, and I'm going to ask Minister Sacheva for an answer. The pension of a pensioner in 2021 was calculated at BGN 250, he will receive in 2021. 300 BGN, because the minimum pension will be 300 BGN. The second pillar will receive 30 leva. For example, if that's how much its lot is. So a pensioner who hasn't transferred his account to the National Insurance Institute will get BGN 330. However, if he transfers it to the National Insurance Institute, he will receive only 300 BGN because there will be no additional funds from the second pillar. This is a preliminary estimate of experts...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u54	Mrs. Jeleva, please! You've exceeded your time twice and a half. I really gave you a lot of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u55	I'm asking for your answer. I ask the question: when will the mechanism for calculation and payment of the second pensions be ready? That's my extra question. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u56	Thank you. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u57	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Jeleva! I'm going to pass your reproaches on the fact that the National Insurance Institute has been turned into a bank. I didn't understand what you meant by not keeping election promises. They are first implemented and this is obvious, including the fact that we will give a minimum pension of 300 BGN. This is our proposal, but even more than we have proposed, because the policy of raising income is a stable policy of this government and it continues, including through the minimum wage. As for your question regarding the second pensions. What is to be done right now in the draft budget for state social security, we will propose changes to the Social Security Code, which will relate to two things. One is to open a window for all women and all people who have missed the opportunity to transfer their funds in the last five years, to be able to do so from 1 January to 30 June next year. This will be one of our proposals. Our second proposal will be related to the definition of the periods in question for which the full reduction coefficient should not apply so that the National Insurance Institute can change its methodology again by the end of this year. As for a specific definition of the payout phase, we are currently waiting for an impact assessment by the Directorate of Modernization at the Council of Ministers. We are also prepared to publish for public discussion within the next few weeks exactly how the payout phases will take place. We are extremely responsible for this topic and we believe that by the end of this year we will be able to submit the draft amendments to the Social Security Code here at the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u58	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Gokov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u59	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, I do not have time to go into the details of your reply, but I will only mention that the level and dynamics of income in recent years in Bulgaria do not show that this government that governs the country and previous governments with GERB's mandate are able to get the country out of the last place in the European Union on income or at least bring us closer to the other European countries. Your response, and especially your actions, Madam Minister, have confirmed this feeling. As far as pensions are the main source of income of older people in Bulgaria, no one can argue that there is the biggest failure of the government since 2000 in the income policy. In your response, which I find incomplete, but I only attach it to the short time you have for an answer, and also to the appearances of the representatives of the majority and the cabinet in the media, I understand that even at the end of the term, despite the noisy applications, media rather, the pensioner's income policy will not change. The challenge of pension policy is the retirement policy and the entire pension system next year will remain the provision of adequate elderly income while ensuring the financial sustainability of the pension system. You're probably wondering what I'm putting into the expression pension adequacy? The adequacy of a pension is determined by the ability of its size to prevent poverty from falling into the first place. Secondly, it is determined by the extent to which it replaces income. Thirdly, from the period of time when people receive a pension, which is directly related to the retirement age. I say that in your response and in your actions there is nothing like a policy to prevent the poverty of more and more Bulgarian pensioners, nor to improve the overall coefficient of replacement of income from labour. Now the Bulgarian citizens need to know that there are solutions, there is an alternative and when the people vote on the trust of the BSP to rule...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u60	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u61	...in Bulgaria these decisions will be a fact. There will be such updating of pensions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u62	Time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u63	Mr. Chairman, it is extremely incorrect to interrupt me in the middle of a sentence. I'll finish, and you, if you want, stop the mic, because I have to hand it over and...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u64	Mr. Gokov, I gave you twice and a half more time with Mrs. Zheleva, I didn't interrupt her.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u65	Who have you given more time to, I think...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u66	Please, after all, the stands are...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u67	So, if BSP manages the country, there will be a recalculation of the pensions that should be known by all Bulgarian pensioners. And I don't think the subject... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] To shout and not to shout is a fact. It's just...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u68	Maybe we should graduate. [[The President turns off the microphones. National Representative Georgi Gokov continues to speak with microphones off.]] Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u69	No, we can't go on, Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u70	We'll continue, Mr. Gokov! Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u71	...because I don't think the subject is over...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u72	Regarding the previous question, Mr. Gokov...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u73	...and I have to give you the signatures of 51 MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u74	If you let me say what I've prepared, you'll find it unnecessary to give me this folder. [[People's Representative Georgi Gokov continues to speak with the microphone off]] , because in connection with this inquiry, by letter No 01-054-006 of 23 October 2020, submitted today at 10.41, received this request, which you would like to present to me, for holding a debate on the questioning with No 054-05-42 and the draft decision on the questioning set by the MPs Georgi Gokov, Vesela Lecheva, Violeta Zhelev, Milko Nedyalkov, Nadia Klisurska and Polina Shishkova to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on the policy on improving the adequacy of pensions in Bulgaria in the short and long term. The proposal and the draft decision are signed by 51 MPs, the requirement of art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly more than one-fifth of the Members of the National Assembly to make a proposal for a debate on questions. On the basis of art. 105, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly, scheduled the debates on the questioning and voting of the draft decision for the next meeting, designated for parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u76	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. We continue with the next question to the Minister of Interior Hristo Terziyski. He will answer a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov about the actions of the Ministry of Interior on the problem of drug users drivers and the resources provision of the Ministry for dealing with this problem. Here you are, dear Mr. Gokov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, in Bulgaria the use of drugs by law-abiding drivers of motor vehicles is increasing, it is even argued that this phenomenon is becoming widespread in the age group under 35 years, and familiar with the problem say that the main concern of these drug users is not that they can kill a person after using the drug substance on the road, but not be caught by the control authorities and identify the use of a prohibited substance. Judging from the statistics of a number of EU countries, which indicate an increase in the frequency of driving after drug use, Bulgaria is no exception. Bulgarian society is intolerant of alcohol use by drivers, but it seems that it underestimates the impact of drugs on the ability to behave adequately on the road. However, even in Bulgaria since 2012 drug testing has started by drivers of motor vehicles on the road, but so far the technical security of the Ministry of Interior by technical means, field tests, is extremely insufficient and the number of controls is very, very far from practices in other European countries. Despite the promises of the Ministry of Interior that in the last two years resources will increase, and thus the number of drug tests on the road, familiars claim that there is an internal order to test drivers for drug use on the road to be done as a last resort, only when the examiner is sure in the final result, as a motivation for this indication is the high cost of the test. It is also claimed that field tests end at the end of the third quarter and by the end of the year the DMV authorities are put in no way to do their job. In this regard, I ask you to answer my questions: are the allegations of deliberately limiting the number of tests true and that the number of field tests only reaches the end of the third quarter? Is there at all sufficient resources available to the Ministry of Interior to identify one of the most dangerous road violations.... the use of narcotics? Is the Ministry of Interior planning to increase its resources and significantly increase the tested drivers for drug use? And the most important question: is there an understatement by the state of the problem with drug users drivers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u78	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u79	Madam President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Gokov, thank you for putting this question, which has been in the focus of public attention for a long time. Improving road safety and reducing traffic traumatism is a priority in the management program of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria 2017. I am taking this opportunity to assure you that the Ministry of Interior's leadership is making systematic efforts to reduce the number of people who have died and to ensure road safety. The claim to intentionally limit the number of tested drivers for drug use or their analogues is unfounded. In the system of the Ministry of Interior are used test tapes "Dreger Drug Test 5000 Test Kits" by placing them in an analyst, "Dreger Drag Test 5000" as well as single tests "Dreger Drag Chek 3000." The inspection shall be carried out on the spot by police officers, with the result being obtained at the moment. Test tapes and one-off tests shall be delivered to the Departments of Road Police at the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior on the basis of their required quantities, and not depending on the defined period. Under a regulation laying down the procedure for establishing the concentration of alcohol in the blood and/or the use of drugs, or their analogues, police officers shall test each driver for which signs of drug use are identified. In the performance of their duties, police officers shall comply with the requirements for the formation and conduct of criminal proceedings for criminal offences under art. 343b, para. 3 of the Penal Code. In recent years, the Ministry of Interior has markedly increased the number of tests provided. In 2019 9010 test tapes were purchased. By October 2020, a total of 28 191 field tests were purchased, of which 18 481 test tapes plus 40 analysts, as well as 9710 single tests. For 2021, the purchase of 44 000 test tapes and an additional 155 analysts for them is envisaged, which represents a multiple increase compared to previous years. For the prevention and control of speed, alcohol and drug use by drivers of motor vehicles, the Road Police is conducting over 30 campaigns annually under the common motto.On the road life is at the forefront of life, including In cooperation with the European network of road police services and other partners, initiatives for speed control, phone use, alcohol use, drugs and many others are also taking place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u80	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u81	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I am aware that with this issue I am putting an extremely complex topic. Do not think of it as a desire to show that the Ministry of Interior is not doing its job, but to draw attention to a problem of drug use and the consequences of this drug use, which, unfortunately, will not fade over time, but will grow. By the way, I've also requested information about the number of field tests purchased, which you gave in haste and now I'm going to check that information. I just wish I could have gotten them before the oral question to draw some conclusions and give some direction to the question, but you answered it anyway. Information on the number of tests will not answer the accumulated questions, but will guide us to how things are going on this topic and perhaps make an average comparison with the indicators of other countries and show where Bulgaria is in this battle. I thank you for your answer. By the way, this question that I am asking you arises in a conversation with policemen who well-intentionedly and with concern raised this question. Imagine that they capture a leader who apparently used narcotics and have to release it because they do not have a test at the moment or subsequently verify it and prove this abuse, and this is being heard in the midst of the drug abuse and driving a motor vehicle. There is another question, it is rather a technical problem, which is not the subject of the issue, but it is raised in society and it has been up to date since the introduction of these road checks and the Ministry of Interior, or rather the lawmaker "The National Assembly," should give an answer to the question: how long after the drug use the field tests of the DMV give positive results? I assume you're familiar with this problem. There is much work to be done, including creating intolerance, extreme intolerance in the society of these manifestations of drug use. I wish you success in this battle because it is important for the safety of the movement, for human lives in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u82	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Will there be a hole, Minister? No. Let us thank the Interior Minister for participating in today's parliamentary control. Declaration on behalf of the group Mr. Bogdanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u83	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On October 23, 1893 in Thessaloniki, six young Macedonian Bulgarians, Dr. Hristo Tatarchev, Ivan Hadzhinikolov, Damian Gruev, Hristo Batandzhiev, Andon Dimitrov and Petar Poparsov, set up a revolutionary organization aimed at the liberation of the remaining under Turkish slavery Bulgarians from Macedonia and Adrianople. Over the years, the organization has been given different names since the registration in the first charter of Bulgarian Macedonian-Odrin revolutionary committees, to the most popular internal Macedonian-Odrin revolutionary organization. A member of this organization can be any Bulgarian who is not compromised by something unholy, and the means to achieve liberation are both propaganda and revolutionary struggle. A large-scale organizational work has been done in the following decade. Hundreds of revolutionary committees were created in Macedonia, Adrianople and the Rhodopes, and thanks to the organizing talent of the Apostle Gotse Delchev a huge Chetnik army was formed. Many worthy revolutionaries from free Bulgaria are also involved in the fight for the liberation of the slave brother. The long-awaited day occurred on July 20, 1903, when the Ilinden-Preobrazilian Uprising broke out, the biggest uprising against the Ottoman authorities in the Balkans, encompassing the territories from Ohrid and Prespa to Strandzha and the Black Sea. Reads of the organization and the 11th Infantry Macedonian Division are on the front line during the wars for national unification. The failure and breakdown of the Bulgarian national ideal do not undermine the determination of IMRO. At the head of its legendary leaders Todor Alexandrov and Ivan Mihailov in the 20th century IMRO is the largest non-governmental armed force in Europe on which peace in the Balkans depends. The organization opposed the vicious Greek attack in 1925, and its long hand reached the Yugoslav tyrant king Alexander Karadjordjevic. What the foreign forces have failed to do is to achieve the so-called People's Authority after 9 September 1944. IMRO Dayks have been persecuted, killed and sent to the communist labor camps for many years. Ladies and gentlemen, IMRO has its place today, and it will always be there, while somewhere in the world there are people who cannot freely express their Bulgarian self-consciousness. The fierce anti-Bulgarian campaign, which is currently raging in the neighbouring Republic of Northern Macedonia, shows that our fight must continue. In today's European Bulgaria, IMRO continues to guarantee the honour and dignity of the Bulgarian nation, often demeaned and humiliated. Our main adversary continues to be insolence and national nihilism, but we are not afraid of fighting it. The other day, for example, on the occasion of the proposals we made for a change in the name of the festival 24 May, which would highlight its Bulgarian character and the contribution of our statehood to the development of European civilization, from this tribune of BSP allowed themselves to distribute qualifications, to condemn today's historians that they replaced history and truth. What truth, ladies and gentlemen, is this formed according to a foreign template in totalitarian times and under strict censorship, or that in modern, yet democratic Bulgaria?! It is clear to everyone who praises that truth which proclaimed the Kremlin Bells and echoed in us from the hooves of the Red Squadrons. We do not accept morality from people whose patriotism was measured by unconditional worship of the Big Brother even when the price was national betrayal, who were willing to sacrifice the sovereignty of our country and sew it as the sixteenth republic of the Soviet Union or by fighting and violence to Macedonianize the people of the Pirin region to please Tito and Stalin. We also do not believe the modern Democrats, who, together with your envoys to the European Parliament in the name of your common desire for power, passed on the national interest, supporting an open anti-Bulgarian resolution, which raises topics allowing separatism and exposing the long-standing topic of the non-existent Macedonian minority in Bulgaria. We stop here because it is important for us to remind the whole Bulgarian society that as much as the requested patriotism was needed a century ago, it is even more necessary today. Being a patriot, ladies and gentlemen, is not wanting someone else's, but protecting your own. It is for this cause that the fight must continue. Long live Bulgaria! Long live IMRO! [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u84	Thank you, dear Mr. Bogdanov. We continue with the only question to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Mrs. Desislava Taneva. The question is from the MPs Dimitar Stoyanov, Valeri Zablyanov, Georgi Andreev, Krasimir Yankov, Lalo Kirilov and Nikolay Ivanov regarding measures taken against the penetration and organization of the activities for protection against damage caused by the oak cover. Here you go, Mr. Stoyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u85	Madam President, Madam Secretary! Since 2012 in Bulgaria there have been damage caused by the oak cover, also called oak tree, tiger oak tree, etc. It is known that it feeds on the leaves of the oak by sucking out its contents and causing about 80% damage. This, in turn, leads to delying trees, reducing their growth, weak acorns, dying of trees, dying of bees and others. Sredna Sredna Gora, Thracian lowland, Ludogorieta, the valley of Rusenski Lom, Yantra, Svishtovska pole, Nikopol plateau, Eastern Prebalkan, Central and Eastern Balkan Mountains, Strandzha mountain, Sofia and others. Since the insect is highly invasive and is spreading throughout the country, please on the basis of art. 90, para. 1 of the Constitution of Bulgaria and art. 95, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to answer the following question: what plans have been adopted in your ministry for the fight against oak cover; what studies are being carried out and what measures are being applied to limit damage; is there a fight against this insect; do we have scientific developments in this area; is there any foreign experience; is there an organizational, control and conduct of the fight against the crust; what money has been set aside over the years to combat it; how does the damage applied to the annual growth of oakwood affect?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u86	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoyanov. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u87	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! The oak crust is a North American invasive species described in the literature as early as 1890. In Europe, it was first found in 2000. It is currently widespread in the moderate widths of Europe, including Russia and Turkey. It was also established in Iran. According to literary data, this insect is not considered to be a pest in forests, but seriously affects trees in urban environments and may be dangerous for oak saplings in seedlings and young plantations. It was first established in 2012 in the area of the cities of Plovdiv and Simeonovgrad, which was announced in 2013 by the scientists from the Institute for the Forest at BAS. In the period 2015 - 2017 they conducted studies on the distribution and biology of the guild, together with the experts from the Lesprotective Station of Plovdiv. Information about damage from the oak cortex is also available in the reports on the program for environmental monitoring of forest ecosystems in Bulgaria, part of the National Environmental Monitoring System. Judging from the initial deposits in Bulgaria near European roads, the species is mainly spread through transport. Its small dimensions size about 3 mm, and wide lace-like wings allow its spread through wind currents. The insect has two to four generations a year. In Bulgaria there are four in dry years, which is favored by high temperatures. Individuals of the crust hide and winter on the leaves, in the cracks of the stalks of the trees or in the soil floor. They suck plant juice, drill through the underside of the leaves. This leads to discoloration of a number of deciduous leaf trees in Bulgaria, among which different types of oak, python chestnut, clear, elm, apple, rose, raspberry, beech, yavor, hazel, maple. The most powerful attack on the leaves of the Ceres, less of a good and a Strandzha oak, is the monitoring of the Lessaprotective Station. For the damages are submitted signal sheets in module "Lessopathological examination" of the information system of the Executive Forest Agency for oak plantations in Strandzha Mountain, where the degree of damage is between 10 and 60%. According to studies by the Southeast State Enterprise in 2019 and 2020 in the region of Strandzha and Eastern Stara Planina, the peak of an attack from the guild is assumed to be in the period 2021 - 2022. According to literary data, the crust can cause premature loss of leaves. Observations in our country show that although yellow, the leaves remain on the trees and are not completely dry. Experience with other tree species attacked by insects shows that despite the reduced amount of chlorophyll, the leaves of the trees continue their assimilation functions. In 2018, foreign scientific studies confirm that the insect causes stress in the leaves of the trees and the plant is trying to counteract them. According to surveillance and research by the Southeast State enterprise, the insect does not cause loss of tree growth. The oak crust can become a threat to poor health forests because it increases the sensitivity of food plants to diseases and insects. Foreign and our literature lacks information about dead bees or trees as a result of the attack by an oak cove. In practice, there are no such findings in the country. With high density, the oak cortex is a competitor of the rest of the sucking insects and is a threat to the producers of manov honey, because it may hinder the production of honey dew. The formation of mana depends on various topogenic, biotic and abiotic reasons that are known, and should be taken into account when we are looking for an explanation for the reduced extraction of manov copper. In Bulgaria the methods for combating insects are chemical, biological, mechanical and integrated and apply to business significant pests and diseases in forests under Regulation No 9 of 2019 on the protection of forest areas from diseases, pests and other damage, the Plant Protection Act and the Biological Diversity Act. In order to be successful against insects in forests, they must cover extensive areas, including natural parks and Natura 2000, where the use of plant protection products is restricted. Due to the small size of the crust and its resting and feeding places, mechanical fighting and air spraying of plant protection products is not applicable. Ground treatment with chemical and biological plant protection products is applicable in seedlings and in young crops where whole plants may be treated according to pest biology. There are currently no registered plant protection products against the oak cover, and the development of chemical methods for combating is linked to a number of European Union requirements for the protection of bees and the environment. Even if such products are approved, there is a risk that chemical treatment against the crust may harm whole insect groups, including the lice that produce mana. In the vast forest areas biological struggle is applicable, i.e. the introduction of macro- and micro-organisms, which will cause disease and reduce the number of oak crusts. The development of biological measures is labor intensive and worldwide is still at the level of laboratory experiments. All possible studies have been carried out in Bulgaria on the oak cortex since its establishment in 2012, taking into account available foreign literature and experience. Due to the climate change observed, invasive insect species appear increasingly noticeable. The coordination of the study and the approval of the plans for the fight shall be carried out by the National Commission for Lesdefense. The realization of the events is carried out by the experts in the forest protection stations and is financed by the owners of the affected forest areas. The mass event of the cove was discussed at the National Commission held in February 2020. The topic was discussed also in September this year with Turkey, where the affected oak forests are huge in area. There is a discussion on possible measures to combat the oak cover at the intended scientific-practical conference on 26 November. In conclusion, it can be said that the oak cove is currently not a problem for the forests of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u88	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Stoyanov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u89	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I'm not satisfied with your answer. The data from forestry farmers that I have spoken with is confirmed that the state is not taking any measures to combat this insect. From your answer, I understand that the measures taken for nearly ten years are only theoretical. I understand that on a global scale there is no drug or chemical to fight against this insect to destroy it. But I never understood why the state didn't take any measures to limit the spread of the oak cortex. It's about killing trees. I understand that this is, to a large extent, an example of Strandzha, a strong death of bees. For the reduction of manic honey, it is a natural consequence of the death of bees. I say all this with concern and I ask that, as far as you are the head of this ministry, you take serious steps towards an imminent danger that is neglected by the state.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoyanov. Madam Minister, will there be a duplicate? No. Let's thank Minister Taneva... [[Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.]] Mr. Ermenkov, what do you have? A declaration on behalf of a group. Just to thank Minister Taneva for her participation in today's parliamentary control. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria and from the Independent MPs: "I" from group, and from the Independents. "]] Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov. He unites your opinion, doesn't he? [[Noise and lines.]] Okay. Statement on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! A short time ago, innuendo with regard to the Bulgarian Socialist Party and accusations that we are hardly an anti-Bulgarian party that obeys foreign and I do not know what other interests you are. I would like to draw attention, firstly, to the fact that the Bulgarian Socialist Party has always proved its national responsibility, has always pursued a policy that has been consistent with the interests of the people, and has never done it in a conjunctural way. What I would like to draw attention to the speeches is that when they accuse us of things that happened after 9 September 1944, I want to remind those who said it just now, what did their agents do before 9 September 1944, and how did they kill each other? [[Noise and lines from OP.]] This, however, is the small side of the question. This is a past that we have long condemned as a party in the 1960s and as a policy that has been carried out wrong, so I will not dwell on this story. However, I would like to draw your attention to today, to your proposals today, gentlemen, supposedly patriots who...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u92	Mr. Ermenkov! [[Relations from the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u93	I didn't specify to whom. If a person recognizes himself, he may take a stand on the matter. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that your proposal, which entered at first reading, was to rename the celebration of Bulgarian education and Slavic writing, to be replaced by the Day of Bulgarian writing, education and culture. [[SIGHS]] [[(Noise and lines from GERB:]] I want, among other things, to make a statement on the fact that we have been accused of opposing your proposal. I will explain to you that not only we but also the scientific community of Bulgaria opposes this proposal of yours. There is an opinion of the General Assembly of the Kirilo Methodial Science Center at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences on this issue, there is an opinion of the Institute of Bulgarian Language at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, in which this proposal of yours is made in pieces because it takes away the Bulgarian writing of its Slavonic nature. I would like to draw attention to the fact that what you are now proposing between first and second reading is not your proposal, gentlemen Patriots, but the result of public opinion, which has sharply opposed your initial proposal, which understood that behind this pseudopatriotism lies quite other objectives. Perhaps this proposal would not have happened if you had acted truly nationally responsible. When you reach out to something that is extremely sacred to the Bulgarian people, your contribution to the Slavic culture, the development and preservation of Orthodoxy in Bulgaria, you should have held the appropriate preliminary talks so that you do not find yourself in this humiliating position now by patriots to accuse you of taking away Bulgaria one of the greatest and world's greatest achievements, the writing that it has spread to the world, the culture and the preservation of the Orthodoxy of Slavic language. Therefore, gentlemen Patriots, I beg you very much, when you are trying to accuse the Bulgarian Socialist Party of things that it has never done, be so kind as to look at yourself in the mirror, to see each other, and perhaps you will see the signs and skeletons of those you have destroyed among yourselves. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u94	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. In the manner of conduct, Mr. Apostolov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u95	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Madam President, I have to be very sharp with you, because what we have heard from this tribune, first of all, are huge lies. Secondly, you have taken no part in the fact that colleagues from the BSP parliamentary group make statements on a declaration that is absolutely unacceptable under the Rules of Procedure! You should have intervened in this speech, which was a mixture of spoken means, about a declaration, Slavic writing. I want to tell my colleague who's talking here, from this stands, that you don't have to take the skeletons out of the closet. Enough skeletons you put, but not in the wardrobe, but in the native Bulgarian land to make such suggestions here!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u96	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. The declaration was so diverse that I couldn't see where and exactly what I had to stop. Colleagues, we continue with the first question to Mr. Emil Dimitrov, Minister of Environment and Water. The question is from the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov on the criminal procedure against Bulgaria because of the Natura 2000 network. Here you are, Mr. Chakarov, to develop the matter to the Minister of Environment and Water.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u97	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Minister, on 2 July this year the media reported, quoting the European Commission that it announced the launch of a criminal procedure against Bulgaria because our country has still announced only 22 out of 229 zones of the Natura 2000 site as special areas for conservation under the Habitats Directive. According to the official information cited by Brussels, the European Commission also finds that Bulgaria systematically does not define measures for the conservation of these areas to achieve a favourable conservation status of protected habitats and species. The European Commission reports in this consecutive phase of the criminal procedure on the subject that Bulgaria has three months to prepare a response, then a case will be launched against the country in the court of the European Union. The delay in announcing areas under the Habitats Directive, if we have to be correct, is more than five years, and because of these procedures the European Commission announced the start of a criminal procedure with the official letter of 24 January 2019. Then it gave an initial period of two months for a response from our country. On 28 February this year, I asked you a parliamentary question regarding this penal procedure because of the orders for the announcement of 211 protected areas of a total of 341, approved by the European Commission as protected under the Habitats Directive. You then replied to me that the necessary organisation was established in the Ministry of Environment and Waters to prepare and issue the orders for the announcement of protected areas under the Biodiversity Act and that for 91 protected areas for the conservation of natural habitats the procedure is almost over, access should be discussed and the relevant maps should be finalized and the procedure finalised. Also from the parliamentary tribune you informed that such a timetable for fulfilling these commitments from our country on the construction of the Natura 2000 network was presented to the European Commission by making a commitment in May this year to update it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u98	The question, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u99	The question is: at what stage are these 91 protected areas for conservation of natural habitats, which you reported in February; at what stage of preparation are the other, the other protected areas, in accordance with all the required procedure and documentation in our country; was an update of the timetable or action plan made available to the European Commission, respectively? I very much hope that, therefore, we are asking this question highly concerned that it will not launch a criminal procedure in the European Union's court against our country. With what arguments will we defend our position? Finally, we hope that there is no risk of such a case being brought. We hope so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u100	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. Mr. Secretary, come in. You might need a little more than three minutes, you have a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u101	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chakarov, you asked me a few questions. I have to tell you everything from 2009 to the moment of what I have done since January, when I entered as a minister, i.e. the encyclopedia, if I may, in a nutshell to tell it, right, it is a big deal to tell the encyclopedia.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u102	You've got three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u103	After all, this has started since 2009. A series of criminal procedures have been going on, the Biodiversity Act needs to be amended. The law of the 24th came, I, three weeks old minister, brought it to the Council of Ministers and is here in this building, in this room, in this institution. Accordingly, May we informed the European Union that we had informed them that we had already informed this committee by May that the amendment to the Biodiversity Act related to the introduction of the new approach to management of the Natura 2000 network in the country, developed to address existing problems, respectively the requirements of the Habitats Directive were approved by the government and submitted to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption. Bulgaria also pointed out that it expects a second final vote on the Law by the end of June 2020. At three weeks I have helped the Law to pass through the Council of Ministers, to come here and we have informed the European Union that by the end of June 2020, the law will be adopted. The fact that the amendment of the Law has not yet been adopted puts our country in a negative position. Except he wasn't accepted from here, not from the Council of Ministers. Right now you want everything that hasn't been done since 2009, now, to be done immediately because there's been a criminal procedure?! And since 2009, why aren't things happening? Three hundred and forty protected zones, 120 of them are defined according to the requirements of the Directive. We've had 120 zones working since January. But we can't go 10 years back like this in no time, because someone wants it to happen that way. The approval by the Council of Ministers is currently 234. For 13 of the zones already on both directives match. For 36 of the protected areas for the habitats there are already orders to announce to the Minister of Environment and Water under the order of art. 12 of the Biodiversity Act. The problem, however, is that we, a Law, are transferring it from here to there, from 2009, and when this criminal procedure starts, because we are always hoping that someone will go and say something and it will not start, then you will start asking me: but why is there such a procedure and why Bulgaria, eventually, will bear sanctions?! From 2009 until 24 February 2020, I am not responsible. Since I've been responsible, we've done everything I've read to you, but I can't do everything. So you better get organized and pass this law, not be scared of one, two, third public media pressure, because because of the pressure, if we don't pass the Law, then the whole country will lose huge funds. Then we will have to explain that we were afraid of five people, that they would make a scandal for us in front of parliament, we did not accept the Law, and now the whole country will pay. From 2009 to 24 February 2020, things are outside of us. At the moment, the MoEW can't do everything in 11 years' time. What he can do, he does. Do not think that just because we have dealt with 120 zones and 13 zones on the border of directives, we can absolutely do anything in six months. From this moment on, I want to tell you that the MOEW works at very strong speeds, but it can't do it all, it can't pass this law. This law can lead to infrastructure projects and problems, this law can lead to many other consequences of the water and water sector, and so on. We don't need to rediscover it now. Since 2009 You know what happened.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u104	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mr. Chakarov, come in. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man [[DPS]] Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, I fully share what you have said that the limitation of the unfinished work does not only concern the current mandate, but in fact my strong position is that in the last ten years the necessary work has not been done so that we can reach and find ourselves in the current situation. But what needs to be done at the moment, I share that this bill, which has already been tabled, must be dealt with, which is already here, but there are quite controversial moments that need to be cleared with a broad discussion and with meetings with all interested parties. It is good to be presented, I am convinced that you will do this as Minister of Environment and Water and to the public, and to our partners from Brussels, in the face of the European Commission, that there is progress in the issue of the zones. I allow myself to say that I know matter quite well, and I know that issuing orders for protected areas is a very complex and responsible procedure. Here, in addition to achieving the objectives of the Habitats Directive and the Birds Directive, a balance must be found between nature conservation and a balance for the development of the regions concerned. All of this has to happen, so the responsibility of the Ministry and of you is very serious. This is realized and my appeal is that it must be done and the arguments, the action plan, should be presented. Furthermore, I think it is appropriate to present themselves and should not give any reason for doubt on the part of our partners, and it is a concern for nature because our country has the unique chance that there is an extremely large biodiversity and that is why we have such a large area of the country as protected areas. Together with Spain and Greece, we are in one of the top places within the European Union. So measures must also be presented until the orders are given, to achieve the objectives and to preserve wealth in these protected areas with regard to the givens that our country has. I reiterate here my position that the question is being asked with a view of concern not to initiate a criminal procedure. As you have said, this could have a very negative impact and attitude towards our country, including the EU funds allocated to our country, so we all need to do what is necessary. And we opposition to opposition have always been constructive when dealing with legislation in the field of ecology, because it concerns all of us. There is no room for opposition here, we are once again expressing constructiveism to do all this, to examine it so that progress is made and not to come to the Court of Justice of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Will there be a hole, Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u106	Thank you. Mrs. Chairman! We all want Bulgaria not to have a criminal procedure, to get all its money and to protect nature, but this is what we want from 2009. Then the Commission started on 12 December 2008, 16 November 2012 and then so far we all want it. And the Commission says so, the European Commission adopted an opinion on the procedure: And you're telling me: do it now in no time. And every single order we issue is appealed. Every single area we take out or put in and tell us: but there is a hotel here, but there is land here, but here is a beach, but here is a habitat. We give an order, and one year at a time, we decide it, apart from all the pressure left and the strikes, and so on. The mayor says: "I want to build, the Greens say, "It is forbidden to build and we are constantly dealing with the prosecution. But if there's any way we can do it right now. With this lag, we can't transpose us, we have to have orders, we have to have plans, we have to have goals, we have to have measures. Tell me who in this room agrees one day before the penalty procedure becomes a minister so that he has to blame for everything that didn't happen before. I expect the Biodiversity Act to be adopted and, in the fastest order, we will begin to accept all these activities and not everyone to hide behind each other's back and not wait for the next parliament. Maybe it'll be too late.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u107	Thank you, dear Minister. We continue with the second question to Minister Dimitrov. He is from the National Representative Yavor Bozhankov regarding a decrease in the available welded volumes in the significant dams. Here you go, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u108	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, from the daily newsletters on the state of the waters that are being published, we see several alarming trends. These are mainly at the dams for drinking water supply. As of October 2nd, the trend for 13 of the 15 dams for drinking water under Annex No 1 of the Water Act shows a decrease in the available water volume. The same reference shows that at the same date the available net volume of the dam....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... You yourself, Minister, in several public appearances in the media, point out that there is a risk of waterlessness on the Black Sea for next year. The dam is providing supply to the North and the South Black Sea coast, and at the moment its useful volume is only 28%. In recent months, due to the low volume of the water use for the needs of the water supply, Shumen and Targovishte have been declining, which calls into question the water supply in these areas. In public appearances, you also claim that in the absence of rain or snow in the winter, next year we will be in the water. This raises the question of the actions to be taken to ensure the water supply of large agglomerations in order to prevent the introduction of a water regime. In this regard, I have asked you the following question: what measures will the Ministry take to reserve water supply of large agglomerations in order to prevent a water regime? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u109	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u110	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bozhankov, we have 15 dams. I will be quick because I have little time, of them six dams. 6 dams from them are between 76 and 98% secured, and winter has not yet come, they are from 76 to 98. In national plan 65.4%, however, what is of the total volume, of the available volume to 70% we have. There are only a few dams. The rest: "Borovitsa", "Studena", "Dyakovo", "Kaline" and "Karagjol". "We can hardly keep them from overflowing. We have a problem at the moment how to balance them not to fill too much, because then we have to pour the water. So we from the 15 dams are all those that I've listed to you, Iskar, Beli Iskar, Srechenska bar.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Yes, there are three dams, which you ask about. It is, only that the water that holds it, is an agricultural dam, but once someone 15 years ago has hung this dam to a city that uses 20,000 cc's a month. And we hold a 12-million-dollar dam that will last 50 years for this town, but we don't give it to the farmers, and it's an agricultural dam. Instead of driving farmers to make thousands of drilling to get that 12 million out of the ground, wasn't it more appropriate to make two drillings and feed the city with those 20,000 ccs a month, and the dam should be back-up, not basically, because it's now back-up, but they use it all the time, and feed the farmers next year and there won't be any problems with the farmers. So there we have 50 years of water in this dam, which you said is the smallest volume. It didn't rain in the fourth year. We have imposed a limit since the beginning of the year, we are discussing different options, the Council of Ministers has even decided that two dams should be placed into the diversion that feeds Burgas, so that they can assist the drinking and domestic supply of the city for the fourth year, if it doesn't rain, we have to deal with this year too. We have imposed the limit from January to be able for the next. This one we know there will be, but we do not know what the watering hole will be last year, which passed, and next year we do not know what it will be. From January we impose plans, every month we inform all ministers, we reduce volumes and quantities. There is a decision by the Council of Ministers for two more dams. And he stayed. He ran. There is, I'll tell you now, there are, for eight to ten months, we have taken action, yet we expect some watershed to come, there are for 20 months, in practice for two years, two more winters, but we limit it, because it is also agricultural, we have to give it to farmers, because we also have to eat, give it to drink-bits and it is a reserve for Shumen, but they are used only as main ones. That's where we've provided money for a treatment plant and a water supply. Everything the state should have taken has taken. However, they do not recover their drilling so as to lighten the dam a little, they rely on it to fill up. But it doesn't happen anywhere with a magic wand. But for Shumen, there are for 20 months, whether we are 120 million under Operational Program "Environment" to fix the water supply and the treatment plant. This will reduce losses, it will be at least 24, which is two years from now. I told you that there is for 50 years if they only use it for drinking and it is a sinister dam, which is for agricultural purposes, to close it, that farmers not only receive it because it is 20 thousand that they burn out of it every month. And I told you about him that the Council of Ministers has made a decision. All the other dams are fine. All the other dams have plenty of water. The irrigation's bad, but at the end of the season, it's just like that. We are currently working out a strategy to help farmers not have a problem next year. With energy, why don't you ask there? Well, it's full. There is water in the western part of Bulgaria, there are problems in the eastern part of Bulgaria. For "Kamchia" " 113 km to Varna," 100 km to Burgas the pipelines are fixed. For Plovdiv, we make the network from the dam to Plovdiv. As you can see about Northern Bulgaria right now with the farmer we are talking about Dobrudja drilling how to do, because there is no system there and for the dam, which was............................ we are trying to renovate them and the dam to be used by farmers..... next year for farmers to be unable to have problems and citizens to have no problems, even though it is a fourth year of drought, everyone recognizes it and knows it, and at the same time no one will know that there were moments in the country where we were draining into the other dam in the third year and so on. We have a problem with three dams. One in 50 years, one in two years, one in 10 to 12 months we have a decision by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u111	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Come in, Mr. Bojankov. You won't have a line. Thank you. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control of the Minister of Environment and Water Mr. Dimitrov. We are going with questions to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Petya Avramova. The first question is from the MP Kristina Sidorova about a water problem in the municipality of Sevlievo and part of the villages of Gabrovo municipality, Yavorets village, Armeni village, Zlatevtsi village, Zdravkovets village and Kozi village horn. Mrs. Sidorova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u112	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, gentlemen and ministers! Dear Mrs. Avramova, I am sure you are well aware of the problems with the water supply of Gabrovo district. It is about the problems of the municipality of Sevlievo, part of the settlements in Sevlievo and part of it not small, in the municipality of Gabrovo. Truly in order villages, such as Dobromirka, Idilevo, Tarhovo, Lovnidol, Stora, Yavorets and ten more villages of Gabrovo municipality, water has not fallen from the taps. That's where the watersheds became part of the landscape. I will divide the statement of my question into two parts: the situation in Sevlievo and villages around Sevlievo, and the situation in Gabrovo. You know, you are well aware of the problem in Sevlievo, there is a need for reconstruction of the bringing so-called Eastern plumbing, where there are huge losses. The total amount for the renovation and the replacement of the plumbing is 19 million. lv. At the moment there is a six-and-a-half-mile grant, the remaining nearly 13 million. lv. they are not yet relaxed and in fact they are not given until the final resolution of this case. The problems in Gabrovo can in one way be solved. The connection of the affected settlements with the plumbing and with the dam............................................................................................. Only a few weeks ago, however, the Prime Minister dropped a line when visiting the dam in Gabrovo stirred up, so to speak, the spirits in our city. He said, quote: Fortunately, this dam is full. They have the same rights as the people in the villages and in the city. Sevlievo has projects ready to start immediately. To me, Gabrovo and Sevlievo are the same. However, that statement upset my fellow citizens, who still remember the water problems in Gabrovo years ago. Therefore, I would very much like you to say from this tribune: is there a project for connecting Sevlievo with the water supply of Gabrovo and, more precisely, with the dam of Gabrovo? And what is the overall vision of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to deal with this really big problem at the moment in the field? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Sidorova. The word is made by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Petya Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u114	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Sidorova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will start my answer by saying that at present there is no project for the water supply of Sevlievo municipality and the surrounding settlements of the dam. The dam was built in the 1970s with a primary purpose for drinking and industrial water supply of the town of Gabrovo and the surrounding settlements in the region with a total population of over 64 thousand inhabitants. The dam is filled by its own watercourse on the Panicharka River and by Jantra collection deviation. The main deviation is pressurized with a diameter of 1200 mm, with a length of 8673 m. The water is brought to a water treatment plant for drinking water. According to a reference from the water service operator there is a water regime imposed in the villages of Yavorets, Armenians, Zlatevtsi and Capricorn, which is why during the summer season, especially in periods of lack of precipitation and drying of water sources, the use of water should be for drinking-bit needs only. Permanent controls are also being carried out to prevent unauthorised use of water during periods of drying similar to this, but action in this direction requires serious resource and effort. In order to improve the water supply in the municipalities of Gabrovo, Sevlievo and their surroundings in recent years, MRDP has financed activities for nearly 2 million. BGN, part of which are: reconstruction of existing plumbing for the supply of 16 settlements in Gabrovo municipality; increasing the capacity of bunker pump station - Sevlievo; major repair of plumbing network of streets in the town of Gabrovo. I would like to point out here that with the adopted Decree of the Council of Ministers No 277 of 8 October approving additional expenditure on the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for 2020 for the implementation of sites for improving the water supply of settlements in Sevlievo municipality, funds of 6 million have been allocated. 399 thousand. BGN 384. with VAT. These funds will replace the most problematic sections of an eastern plumbing branch with a length of 7,77 km. Procedures have been carried out for the implementation of the project, a contractor has been selected, as I have also informed you in writing to your previous question. With the implementation of this measure, the losses of water resources will be significantly reduced and the water supply of the city will be improved. In order to consider the possibility of expanding the scope for the use of the dam....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I would like to stress that the funds that were allocated to Sevlievo are not all the funds that we have committed to providing to both Sevlievo and Gabrovo. We have made a commitment after the two municipalities are ready to continue with the funding so that we can improve the state of the water network in Sevlievo and in Gabrovo with targeted means for a lasting solution to the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u115	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mrs. Sidorova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u116	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, thank you for that answer. It was really extremely important to hear and to reassure the residents of Gabrovo that there is currently no project for the water supply of Sevlievo and the villages of the dam, which is actually the only source of water for Gabrovo municipality. I hope that what you have completed and the commitment you have made from this tribune that it will continue the allocation of funds and work in order to finally solve the problem of the water supply of the two municipalities will also have its financial dimension in the next budget, which we will be looking at in this House very soon. I believe that the money will be allocated at the beginning of the year, the projects will be started and they will be finished because another summer like this, in which more than four months people will have no water, will really ruin and will finish the Bulgarian villages, especially the villages in Sevlievo municipality. Again, I remind you that there are people out there who have no water in their taps for more than four months and really life there is very difficult. I hope your commitment will be fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Sidorova. Mrs. Minister's douche? You won't. Let's move on to the next question. He is again from Mrs. Sidorova about repairing a section of road III-5006 from km 0+000 to km 5+680. Here you are, Mrs. Sidorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u118	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, road III-5006 Gabrovo It is the only connection of the residents and guests of the municipality with resort complex "Uzana" and with part of the villages, which are listed above. Unfortunately, the road is in bad shape. According to information from API in the coming years it will be repaired. However, I sincerely hope that the future renovation will be done qualitatively, not as the repair currently being carried out in the section from the same distance from km 0+000 to km 5+680. I recall, the section falls into the urbanized territory of the town of Gabrovo and coincides with a section of the boulevards in the city. According to your reply, which I received earlier in October 2019, following an award by the Road Infrastructure Agency (Radetzky) the road maintenance company for the district began the implementation of preventive repairs from the Hadzhizonev Bridge to km 5+680 or to the district of Radetzki. On the track, according to your response, are performed: groundwork; local repairs; making a lined trench; building waterfalls; implementing support walls; cutting and so on. The activities remaining to be performed are: laying an wearing layer of road asphalt concrete; installation of banquets; marking. Unfortunately, to date, however, the state of the road is no better than what it was before the repair started. In my spot check on the road I found that the holes on the road are still there, the asphalt that is laid is already falling, there are falls and the support wall is not fully executed. In this regard, my question to you is: at what stage is it and when will the repair of the section from III-5006 from km 0+000 to km 5+680 Gabrovo be completed? Will this repair be performed qualitatively because what is seen on the spot does not look like repair?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u119	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sidorova. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u120	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Sidorova, yes, in a written answer to you to your question about the repair of road III-5006 from km 0+000 to km 5+680 I have provided you with detailed information. Now I will allow myself to repeat a part of it that the section of the third-class road in which the route falls within the urbanised territory of the town of Gabrovo coincides with the section of the 3rd March boulevard, Nikola Vaptsarov Boulevard and Kozštitsa Street is included in the controversial protocol between the Road Structure Agency and Obshtina Gabrovo for co-financing of the ongoing and winter maintenance activities for the years 2018-a, 2019-a and 2020-a. According to the protocol, the obligation to organise the maintenance activities in this section is to be taken into account and the Agency participates in the financing of maintenance of the road. As you mentioned, in October 2019 the Road Infrastructure Agency was entrusted to the road support company the implementation of the site, with the exception of a bridge facility at km 4+743. Repair activities are partially carried out, covered trenches are made, two support walls are built and two waterfalls are made. There were technological milling and local repairs of the asphalt flooring and a layer of non-solid asphalt mixture was laid. The completed works are worth 374 thousand. BGN 529. with VAT. Depressive containment systems have been installed. The site remains incomplete due to the beginning of the winter season, and this year the completion of the site continues with the laying of a heavy asphalt layer, the making of stabilized banquets, and then a horizontal marking will be placed. The value of the assigned activities is 329 thousand. BGN 561 and the deadline for implementation of the work is November 30. Road signs will be installed by the end of the year. If there are poorly implemented activities, as you mentioned in your question, they will be removed. All poorly executed works will be removed by November 30th. The company that has a road maintenance contract must finalise the repair of this section of the road. I'll personally keep an eye on his performance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u121	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Sidorova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u122	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, thank you for your reply and I really hope that the control of the implementation of the repair activities on the Bulgarian roads will be tightened. Because what I saw just two weeks ago, it really didn't look like a repaired road. Residents of the neighborhood signaled me about the poor repairs. According to them, the asphalt was placed directly on mud in wet weather, and the company that performed the renovation was rather watching, with an excuse that from this tribune I say it, just pull the number off. Please refer also to the Road Infrastructure Agency and the control authorities to monitor how they are actually being repaired and how the Bulgarian roads are being paved, because the funds that are being invested appear to be going to the wind in just a year or two this time it will be lost again; the holes that are, at the moment, are not little at all, they are not small and they look more like large craters will become even bigger. In fact, these half a million leva, which will be invested in supposed repair, will sink into the mud, sink into the fallen banquet or in the safety measures that are currently with red ribbons on the side of the road. Control of the implementation of repairs is indeed extremely important and I hope that through the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works it will be tightened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u123	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sidorova. Mrs. Minister's doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Sidorova, as of April 2020, the Road Infrastructure Agency has concluded a contract for ongoing repair and maintenance with a new company, not the one that carried out the activities in 2019. So that the company entrusted in October to complete the repair of this road section will make efforts to sanitize poorly implemented activities by the previous company that had a contract for ongoing repair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u125	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question to you is from the National Representative Kolyo Milev about the town of Sliven. You have the floor, Mr. Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u126	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, my question to you is related to the difficult financial situation of the Ministry of Transport and Sewerage, as well as to the failure of the business programme under Decree No 4 of the KEWRC. Dear Minister, the company has claims that are not being implemented under the programme about 5 million. BGN, and since the manager is unable to collect these claims, it is necessary to withdraw the water holding company about a million and a half, which in the future will pay all the citizens and subscribers of the company. In addition, the only company in Bulgaria in which the water meter unit is closed and there ten employees are released to fight COVID-19, the same company is suing, recovering them in court, the manager pays some court fees, which are again on the back of the employees. These people are looking for their rights in a court of law, and that's unacceptable. My question to you is: what are the findings and results of the inspection that you have carried out to the company, and what measures have you taken to recover it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u127	Thank you, Mr. Milev. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Milev, the reasons for the difficult financial condition of Water Supply and Sewerage are complex. On the one hand, as I informed you about your previous inquiry from July 2020 about the state of the company, these are a number of inherited problems from past years related to the maintenance and operation of highly depreciated water supply systems generating high water losses on the water supply lines, the internal distribution network, as well as the low collection of subscribers' claims, including the additional complications of billing activities, reporting and charging services provided under a pandemic. On the other hand, due to the permanent trend towards drought in the country since mid-2019, which does not concern only Sliven district, and in order to prevent a water crisis in the isolated territory, the company was forced to provide the necessary water supplies, except from the Asenovetz Dam, and through the inclusion of alternative underground reserve water sources, tube and shaft wells from the Tundzha river terrace, which led to a significant increase in monthly costs for electricity. energy. These additional costs are not provided for in the price of the service and in the approved business plan of the company for the period 2017 As regards the actions towards achieving the financial stability of the company, the following is taken: First, Water Supply and Sewerage, Sliven, as a beneficiary of Operational Programme 2014 "Environment" in accordance with its commitments for the construction of public water infrastructure, has entered into an administrative contract with the Managing Authority of Operational Programme "Environment" worth 133 million. 326 thousand. BGN 939 of which the part of self-financing is 37 million. Seven hundred and BGN 914. This part of the company should provide by attracting funding from a commercial bank chosen by a procedure. This will contribute to the lasting resolution of the problems related to the depreciated water supply infrastructure. Secondly, to support the financial stabilisation of the company was launched procedure for transferring the state share to the Bulgarian Water Holding. On 20 October was held a General Assembly of Partners, where a unanimous decision was taken for the adoption of a new partner in the Bulgarian Water Holding and for the conclusion of a loan contract with energy of 1,5 million. lv. In addition, I would like to point out that for the third quarter of 2020, the company is expected to realise a positive financial result of more than 400 thousand. lv. from my activities. In view of the above, I believe that the actions taken by the Ministry will ensure a long-term stabilisation of the Regarding the second question that you have asked. By my order, an audit was carried out at the Water and Water Department in Sliven, in the sector................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There are recommendations to the company and they are monitored for their removal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u129	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Milev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u130	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. What you're saying is really true, and it's true. The problems are many years old, but I think the problem is management. Because in no locality in the area where the company operates, there is no water supply for the water entering the locality. Not a single upright water meter. And this is precisely because of the closed water supply, which currently does not work, works criminally. It is true that they have found a way in terms of fighting COVID-19 to free people, but some of them are working criminally, others are suing the company, condemning it to second and third instance and not recovering it for the reason that the manager clearly does not want to reinstate them, I say, even for political reasons. I believe that you should intervene as a principal and check why these incoming water meters to the settlements do not really work? All complaints that have been filed have been addressed to the Attorney General, and to you, I hope, to the released people, are not taken into account to stop the payment of court fees from lost cases? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u131	Thank you. A hole, Madam Secretary? No. And the last question to Minister Avramova is from the MP Nikola Dinkov on the government's financial instruments to ensure the construction of municipal social rental homes. You have the floor, Mr. Dinkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u132	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, municipal social rental homes provide suitable living conditions for vulnerable groups in society for residents with registered housing needs, to meet unforeseen needs as a result of natural disasters, to support young qualified staff and young families. To the present stage, the public housing fund is reduced to the symbolic 2.4% of all dwellings, and it is constantly decreasing. In comparison, in other countries in Europe, which we strive for in our development, the rate is 3 times higher. This municipal housing fund is difficult to manage due to its dispersal among private dwellings on floor property. For the most part, it is depreciated and municipalities have limited resources to maintain it. In addition, municipalities also have very small resources to invest in such homes, as the only funds to be raised are from the sale of municipal housing, where people have lived for many years and sales are usually made at prices slightly above tax estimates. In this regard, my question to you is: what measures will the government take to finance the construction of municipal social rental homes; on what target programmes can municipalities be beneficiaries; and will a separate fund be established with budgetary resources, as provided for in the residential strategy for 2020 - 2030, which was published by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u133	Thank you, Mr. Dinkov. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Dinkov, in relation to your questions, I would first like to inform you that the project for a new residential strategy is being worked on. The vision for a new Bulgarian residential system is formed in the context of the global and European trends for the development of the sector, and national and targeted programmes will be developed in order to achieve the specific objectives set out in the Strategy. The strategic objectives of the project strategy are aimed at finding sustainable long-term solutions on issues addressed to the residential sector and their direct implementation on the ground will be within the competence of municipal administrations. With regard to your question, I will inform you of the policy of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and what is in the competence of the Ministry. Under Operational Programme "Regional Development" 2007 " 2013" and Operational Programme "Regions in Growth 2014 " 2020" are funded by the European Regional Development Fund from the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. There is targeted support for the construction of social housing. During the last programming period 2007 - 2013 a pilot measure was implemented to provide grants under the Project "Support for providing modern social housing for vulnerable, minority and socially weak population groups and other disadvantaged groups." The design of the pilot model was created by the Interdepartmental Working Group of the Council of Ministers. Four pilot projects were implemented by the municipalities of Vidin, Devnya, Dupnitsa and Sofia Municipality for a total of 16.6 million. BGN, which provide 334 social housing for 684 persons from vulnerable social weak groups. In the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth 2014 " 2020" projects for providing social housing in the framework of the procedure are continued to be supported. The procedure was announced in July 2015 and is in line with the National Concept for the spatial development of Bulgaria for the period 2013 - 2025. The process supports the implementation of the investment programme of 39 eligible municipalities. At present, 21 contracts for grants for projects for social housing with the municipalities of Plovdiv, Burgas, Ruse, Stara Zagora, Blagoevgrad, Shumen, Pernik, Vratsa, Kardzhali, Lovech, Smolyan, Razgrad, Kazanlak, Gotse Delchev, Silistra, Targovishte, Petrich, Svishtov, Velingrad, Lom and Haskovo total value of 53.4 million were signed under the Operational Programme. lv. 1026 social housing will be provided through the realization of these projects and there will be contracts for grants for approved project proposals for social housing with the municipalities of Varna and Vidin, and Montana's project proposal is in the process of evaluation. Currently, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works is in preparation for the new programming period 2021. The aim is to continue efforts to ensure access to adequate housing, which in turn will contribute to raising the standard of living of the population in all regions of the country. The new Regional Development Programme will support activities in the field of municipal housing and in particular support for providing modern and affordable municipal housing for vulnerable population groups and other disadvantaged groups, including Roma through construction, reconstruction, repair and expansion of affordable housing for the accommodation of representatives of the target groups and rehabilitation of adjacent spaces; support for the implementation of innovative approaches to financing housing policies in municipalities, including experimentation and links to sustainable urban development; promoting architectural design, building housing applying environmental sustainability principles, with particular attention to mitigation and adaptation of climate change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u135	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Dinkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u136	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, I understand that you too are aware that the policies in this regard are extremely insufficient. You have quoted several examples, however, which give a picture of the construction of such homes in few areas of the country, and that is why we are asking the question, because it is very important in relation to the new programming period. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, as well as the government, should prepare such proposals to enable municipalities to apply for a relaxed procedure and to be able to acquire funds to implement this part of the country's policy. I can give examples of Europe, where this is a completely different matter. Our percentage is extremely low. For example, in some areas in Spain, they make policies up to 30% of the entire housing fund to be a social housing fund, and there are also such policies in Austria. I think both the Ministry and the government can learn from the example of developed Western countries in this regard. It even comes to the fact that social housing is being built that can regulate the rental market so that people with lower incomes can get housing at lower rental prices. But there is an important issue here that needs to be reflected in the new programming period. The problem is small municipalities. There's no resource in small municipalities. Secondly, attracting specialists and staff from whom they need because of the pronounced negative demographic policy requires the financing of building such homes in order to attract such footage. In addition, it is clear to all of us that we are talking about electricity, water and other maintenance costs, spending almost 40% of the budget of a family, and in order to be able to meet the needs of these socially weak families, this policy in small municipalities must also be implemented. I hope on this issue that the conversation will continue and, as is set out as one of the main objectives of the Housing Strategy 2020 - 2030, the construction of municipal social rental homes, will be clearly reflected in the programme, and in the plan for the new programming period, the directions and tasks in this regard will be clearly reflected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-23.u137	Thank you. A hole? No. With this, we have completed parliamentary control. Thank you for participating in the parliamentary control, dear Minister. The next regular plenary session of 28 October 2020 from 9:00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
