ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Colleagues, I present to your attention a draft work programme for the National Assembly for July 29, 2020: "1." Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Social Services Act "General project prepared by the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee on the basis of the laws adopted at the first vote on 17 July 2020 with importers: Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs, 23 June 2020; Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs, 14 July 2020. 2. Choosing a sub-manager of the National Insurance Institute. The procedure of choice shall be in accordance with rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 9 July 2020. 3. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Animal Health Act. Importers: Irena Dimova and a group of MPs, 10 July 2020, adopted on the first vote on 17 July 2020. 4. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Asylum and Refugees. Importer: Council of Ministers, 7 July 2020 5. Second vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. Importers: Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs, 10 July 2020, adopted on the first vote on 23 July 2020. Point 1 for Thursday 30 July 2020 6. Annual Activity Report of the Commission for Protection of Competition for 2019. Importer: Commission for Protection of Competition, 29 May 2020. Point 2 for Thursday 30 July 2020 7. Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2019 Importer: Communications Regulation Commission, 1 July 2020 Point 3 for Thursday 30 July 2020 8. Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2019 "Analyse on the postal services market." Importer: Communications Regulation Commission, 1 July 2020 Point 4 for Thursday 30 July 2020 The Conference of Presidents agreed to join us. 9 Project of a decision for the establishment of a Temporary Commission on the occasion of the acquisition of 28 265 200 shares in the capital of the First Investment Bank. Importers: Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, 8 July 2020 Point 5 for Thursday, 30 July 2020 10. Parliamentary control. Please vote. Vote 181 MPs: 121, against 52, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Draft and draft resolutions from 22 to 28 July 2020: Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Consumer Protection Act. Importer "Anna Alexandrova" and group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Legal Affairs and to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Report on the hearing of candidates for members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. The Committee on Energy is the lead. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Child Protection Act. Importers " "Plamen Hristov and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Children, Youth and Sports and to the Committee on Health. Draft Law on the ratification of the 2008 Amendments to the Convention on International Organisation for Mobile Satellite Telecommunications, approved by the 20th Session of the General Assembly. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications is the lead. It has been allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft Law amending the Act on the Ministry of Interior. Importer Plamen Nunev. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. Report on the submission and hearing of candidates for the sub-government of the National Insurance Institute. It is allocated to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Communication: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of an aircraft with its air force crew of Switzerland. The authorisation shall be valid for the period from 29 July to 1 August 2020 for one flight for the purpose of transporting diplomatic personnel. The order issued is within the competence of the Minister of Defence, concerning the assessment of the military parameters of the country's transition to defence. The notification was received on 28 July 2020. No 003-09-52 and granted to the Defence Committee. Message: in the National Assembly on the basis of art. 133, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act received a Report on the implementation of the programming budget of the Central Election Commission for the first half of 2020. The report was submitted to the Budget and Finance Committee and to the Legal Affairs Committee and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. And the last announcement: Report of the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Deposit Guarantee Fund in the banks on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 26 June 2020 has been received in the National Assembly. " 21 July 2020 and Protocol No 19 of a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund, held on 22 July 2020, at which the Report is reviewed and discussed. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report and the Protocol were sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Here you are, Mrs. Ninova, for a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u2	Madam President and MPs of the ruling majority! One of the demands of protests on the streets of Bulgaria is to have a rule of law, rule of law, to operate the institutions, to have a division of authorities and mutual control between them. You can't hear them! What you are doing today with this agenda is contributing to the destruction of parliamentaryism and another fact of imposing sole power in Bulgaria. Yesterday, the Prime Minister announced a socio-economic plan of over 2 billion. lv. to help the economy and people to recover from the crisis. He declared them! From the jeep again, traveling around the country like it was his personal money. No, that's the money of Bulgarian citizens! And instead of being here today, to present an analysis of the budget implementation, to propose an update of Parliament's budget, as is done in a parliamentary republic, what do you propose? Not even the ruling majority, a coalition partner MP offers them! And listen to what you probably didn't pay attention to: in the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, a change of VAT on wine and beer. Is that normal parliamentaryism, do you think? In addition, you propose it in a way that deprives the opposition of any opportunity to make our proposals and our position on budget update and the allocation of these 2 billion. lv. Is that parliamentary? All this time you are hypocritically talking about handing out, seeking unity in crisis, and denying the opposition the parliamentary opportunity and responsibility of our responsibility to our one million voters, to offer our view of an anti-crisis plan. And it hasn't passed yet on committee. There is yet to be a committee to consider Valeri Simeonov's proposal. There is no government, there is no coalition, there is no ruling majority, there is no parliamentary group of GERB who then bears responsibility for these proposals? Who's responsible for not giving away the 700 million for the business, that they'll go where they belong, and they won't go in the drawer? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u3	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u4	Secondly, in today's agenda, you are proposing a second vote on the Social Services Act. Dear colleagues, we filed a complaint before the Constitutional Court and he said that there are texts that are unconstitutional. On this basis, we made proposals between first and second readings. You've rejected them all. Every last one of them! You were handing out. Who? Those families who worry about their children, the opposition? Nobody! Self-satisfied, self-sufficient, you offer an agenda that does not meet public expectations, which is counter to what people want, law order, rule of law, separation of authorities and mutual control. We therefore voted against this agenda. That is why we insist that the Prime Minister come and not speak to Parliament about oily women. He could say that on the street. Here to come with numbers "What is the implementation of the budget," what are the forecasts by the end of the year, where these 2 billion comes from, how they will be compensated, and to debate how this money will reach people, directly to families, directly to households, directly to small and medium businesses, and not in the pockets of your surroundings. With what you're doing today, you're pouring more oil into the fires of protests. Don't you get it?! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Be humble for a little while! Look at the fact that there is a Constitution and laws of the state. Read at least the text in which it says that we are a parliamentary republic... [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u5	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u6	...and execute this Constitution and the laws of the country! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u7	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Mr. Chenchev....in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My procedure is for you, Madam President. You do not take into account order in this House a declaration by a parliamentary group read by its chairman, half of the declaration was not heard. I saw there were colleagues on the other side. [[GERB noise and lines]] Here we go. Will you intervene as people so that what is spoken from the highest tribune in Bulgaria can reach the ears not only of the MPs, but also of those who are outside? I've heard reports, reports are distributed, and can't you understand that you will be distributed and already distributed into a third deaf woman?! And you too! [[Applauds the Presidency. Noise and lines from GERB and OP. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. I think there is no obstacle for Bulgarian citizens to monitor how the debates in parliament are moving. There are media representatives here who reflect every moment of the National Assembly's work. Here you go, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u10	Madam President, honourable Members! I ask for a procedural proposal............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u11	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Please vote on this procedure. Vote 163 MPs: 125, against 27, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. One more procedure. Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, we really do not understand what is happening in the country! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] When outside people expect us to resolve the crisis, we are dealing with an extension of deadlines here. Honourable Members, Madam President! The National Assembly is not adequate with the agenda of the state, with the agenda of the Bulgarian citizens. Once again today, for the first time this week...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u13	What's the procedure, Mr. Svilensky?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u14	... I ask you to summon the Prime Minister, invite him to come to this Chamber and explain what is happening in the country. A billion and 800 million will be spent. In a week's time, the parliament will no longer be in session. There will be no MPs in this room, and he will continue with his SUV and the rest of the non-driver ministers in the SUV to drive them...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u15	Got it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u16	...and explain to them what he's doing, who's on strike and who's not on strike. Invite the Prime Minister to come to this House and explain to the MPs who are elected by over 2 and a half million Bulgarian citizens, what awaits them in the coming months, who he will help, who he will prevent! Because the solution, Madam President, is not to go on TV and say: a billion and 800 million, and then four ministers go around wondering what the Prime Minister wanted to say. The decision... [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u17	Mr. Svilensky, I understand your... [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Wait a minute! Wait a minute! What is your suggestion, Mr. Svilensky?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u18	Madam President, don't take my word for it so I can give you my offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u19	Well, give me your offer. What's the procedure? [[Reply from "BSP" for Bulgaria "Don't interrupt"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u20	Madam President, please don't interrupt me. Two minutes, I think it's the time I have as a procedure. You're starting to interrupt my speech every minute and a half.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u21	I'll give you 30 seconds on top. Tell me what you want.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u22	Madam President, the proposal is for the Prime Minister to come to the plenary and explain what he was thinking of doing with these billion and 800 million levs. The only thing he can do, the only rescue measure, the only measure that will be adopted by the people outside, by the people who sent us here to parliament, is the resignation of the government. All he has to do is come and resign to... [[The President turns off the microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u23	Mr. Svilensky, thank you. Got it. I gave 30 seconds more, Mr. Svilensky. I understand your proposal. [[(Scanded by the BSP for Bulgaria (Scanded by BSP for Bulgaria) (Scanded by BSP for Bulgaria) (Scanded by BSP for Bulgaria) (Scanded by BSP for Bulgaria) (Scanded by BSP for Bulgaria) ……]] But you're going into a declaration. I understand your procedure, I'll talk to the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u24	You spoke to the Prime Minister again last week and you fooled me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u25	I didn't fool you. I told you the truth.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u26	So where's the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u27	Last week the Prime Minister was in Brussels.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u28	Were you in Brussels last, or were you sick? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u29	He was in Brussels last week.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u30	Was he sick or quarantined?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u31	Let's not argue, let's cross...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u32	Should I ask where the Prime Minister is at least? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u33	Mr. Svilensky, please, let's not cause any disturbance in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u34	Let's be clear about where the Prime Minister is.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u35	I'll let you know. I'll talk to the Prime Minister. Let me finish my job and when...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u36	Work's quick today.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u37	Mr. Svilensky, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u38	Let's take five and talk to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u39	There hasn't been an hour since the hearing started.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u40	You can give.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u41	I've got work to do. Please, Mr. Svilensky, let's continue. Let's keep going. I'll let you know after I talk to the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u42	How long till 5 minutes?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u43	Mr. Svilensky! Please, the Quaestors, invite Mr. Svilensky to sit in his seat. Please, Mr. Svilensky! Mr. Popov wants him to say something, too. Let the stands and Mr. Popov say something.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u44	We want you to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u45	Please take your seats! Order, please! [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) Noise and lines by GERB.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u46	Let's still hear from the Prime Minister when he's coming. Make some kind of commitment for half an hour, an hour.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u47	Let me finish my work here on the stand, I'll contact the Prime Minister. I can't tell how long. If you continue with these procedures, I won't be coming down from the stands for another hour. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u48	Madam President, with these actions now, at the moment, you are proving that this Parliament has been exhausted from what we have said and we say it. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] This Parliament is exhausted. It is not you who should contact the Prime Minister and ask him here as the first among the equal as President of the National Assembly, but he should be here. He must contact you and come because you are inserting bills that have not been in public discussion at all, bills on which there is a decision of the Constitutional Court, and it is not here. He wasn't there last week when he sanitized his office. Where's the Prime Minister?! He is not in Bulgaria, he is absent, abdicating and that is why this Parliament is exhausted! We can't have the parliament of... [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u49	I get it, Mr. Popov. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Thank you, Mr. Popov. The Prime Minister can't know you're looking for him. I'll call his office and let you know. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Order, please! ? RESPONSIBILITY? No 1848-NS Announcement...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u50	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u51	I started reading the CEC's decision. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] After reading the procedure, I'll give you the floor, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u52	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u53	"Announcement elected as MP in the Twenty-fourth Election Region" Sofia, at the place of Vladislav Goranov. [[(Scanded:) Resign! Resign! Resignation! and banging on banks from BSP for Bulgaria.)]] Quiet, please! [[Noise and lines.]] Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u54	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u55	Mr. Mirchev! Mr. Mirchev, let me read what I started... [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u56	Madam President, honourable Members! Ms. Karayancheva, please give a break until Prime Minister Boyko Borisov arrives. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] We can't ask for a break before an hour has passed, but you're right. Why? Mr. Boyko Borisov, since the protests, once again proves that he is the biggest coward and with his inadequate actions... [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) Loud noise and lines from GERB.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u57	Please don't insult the Prime Minister of the Republic!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u58	...with inadequate actions leads Bulgaria to disaster. He needs to be here to explain how he's going to go through this whole situation he's put us in. And stop hiding like a mouse on... [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u59	Mr. Mirchev, for the insult of the Prime Minister, I'm imposing punishment on you under art. 156, p. 2. [[BSP banks for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u60	If you want, give me 15 punishments. At the moment the situation in the country is severe and this biggest coward must come here. [[The President Tsveta Karayancheva turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u61	Mr. Mirchev, please don't make any scandals in this room. [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off. The MPs Georgi Svilenski, Philip Popov and Ivan Chenchev from the BSP for Bulgaria are around the stands.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u62	So, Garnevsky last week, after insulting an entire group, there's no punishment, and on him because he's comparing, there's punishment.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u63	Calling someone a mouse, I think it's an insult.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u64	He didn't say mouse, he said mouse. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u65	I've imposed punishment... Please take your seats! [[National Representative Stoyan Mirchev continues to speak with microphones off.]] You have decided today to make scandals, Mr. Mirchev, I see, and you do not want the National Assembly to do its job with the planned agenda. [[National Representative Stoyan Mirchev continues to speak with microphones off.]] We have important laws to pass. [[National Representative Stoyan Mirchev continues to speak with microphones off.]] Sit down, Mr. Mirchev! Sit down, Mr. Mirchev! [[National Representative Stoyan Mirchev continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u66	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u67	There is another procedure in the manner of conduct, so release the stands. [[National Representative Stoyan Mirchev continues to speak with microphones off. Noise and lines by GERB.]] Sit down!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u68	Give me the stand, Mr. Mirchev. [[National Representative Stoyan Mirchev continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u69	I can't give a break. Sit down, Mr. Mirchev. Mrs Daritkova wants to make a procedure in the manner of conduct. Don't take the floor away from the MPs, you don't have that right. [[The MPs from BSP for Bulgaria.... Georgi Svilenski, Philip Popov and Ivan Chenchev are still around the stands and replicate the chairman. "Scrambled": "Resign"! Resign! Resignation! and banging on the banks from BSP for Bulgaria. National Representative Stoyan Mirchev continues to speak with microphones off.]] Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u70	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Please, Madam President, do your best to preserve the authority of the National Assembly, which is severely broken... [[(Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) Crashing banks.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u71	Who's destroying it?!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u72	...simple by colleagues who from this tribune demonstrate behavior that does not suit MPs! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the House! [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You are here to defend the interests of Bulgarian citizens. Bulgarian citizens expect social measures that have been announced, and this week we have to put them in the respective laws. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This agenda meets the expectations of Bulgarian citizens. [[Applause from GERB.]] Please, Madam President, if BSP colleagues are in an emotional crisis, give them a 10-minute break so that they can calm down and get to work calmly, because it is serious and we really need to take responsibility for all anti-crisis measures...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u73	Where are the measurements?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u74	...whether we are ruling or opposition, because we represent all Bulgarian citizens and we must work in their interests. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) Long applause by GERB.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u75	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. Go ahead, Mr. Svilensky. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u76	Madam President, one minute ago you imposed punishment on colleague Stoyan Mirchev for comparing the Prime Minister to a mouse. You said like a mouse. The chairman of GERB's parliamentary group just called the entire parliamentary group of punks and you did nothing. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] This rests on your conscience, Madam President. As there is not a single word on the agenda of the National Assembly about the economic measures; there is not a single word about these billion and 800 million; there is not a single word about these 50 levs. there is not a single word for the people who are unemployed and there is no one to pay them their existence during these months; there is not a single word for the business that is expected to be supported; there is not a single word for these 700 million that the Bulgarian Development Bank would give and 7 million are given; there is not a word for these 27 thousand companies who expect help from the state but have received only 7 thousand in the fourth month. For this reason, Madam President, honourable Members, we do not see the meaning of this programme today does not meet the expectations of the public, and that is why the BSP parliamentary group will release the plenary so that you can continue [[Applause from GERB]] to sit and hide behind the thick walls of the Bulgarian Parliament. [[Extreme applause by GERB to interrupt the procedure.]] Have a good day's work and a good day's work, fellow Members! [[The MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria are leaving the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u77	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall! Each parliamentary group has the right to decide how to work. Mrs. Georgieva, please come in for a statement on behalf of a group. [[Loud noise and speech exchange.]] I'm gonna have to ask you to wait for the room to calm down so we can hear your statement as well. Colleagues, order in the court! Anyone who leaves this room, please make it quick so we can start working. Here you go, Mrs. Georgieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u78	Madam President, honourable Members! As early as May 15th on behalf of Volya, I suggested reducing the VAT on gyms, as this business is among the most damaged by the crown crisis.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u79	You can't make a statement on the agenda. It's a topic on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u80	Then the proposal did not go to the committees because the other parties abstained, ignoring our motives.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u81	Ms. Georgieva, your declaration is on the agenda and there is no way that, when the declaration is on the agenda, it can be read in the Chamber of Deputies. In a procedure, say in a few words what you want to say, but not a declaration. Procedure for Mrs. Georgieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u82	Our proposal to reduce VAT was not accepted on committees because the other parties abstained, ignoring our motives that at 9% of VAT gyms will succeed in some way to minimize their losses, and that the physical health of the Bulgarians directly affects its immunity. Our proposal was parallel to the use of 9% VAT and books, textbooks and paper study aids. The rulers had their views on the issue, which overlapd with ours and therefore accepted theirs. In this regard, once again, we need to recall that we are not jealous of our legal initiatives by the will. For us, it is important for people to live better and business to develop in the present times, therefore to survive, so we have always supported the bills that have benefited both Bulgarian citizens and our economy. We don't even mind when our leader's proposals stay in someone's drawers for years before anyone remembers how rational and useful they are. Only one example can I give you: Veselin Mareshki's idea of a state chain of gas stations.. it took three years to realize that it would be of national importance for the life of Bulgaria. We're used to getting ahead of ourselves, and that's a joke in some people. You may also remember the first time that WOLF of this tribune spoke about COVID-19 and asked whether our country was ready to face the danger that was at that time a passenger away from China. And then there was a grinning in some parts of this room, but only a month later our country fell into this pandemic and a state of emergency was declared. Perhaps such a mockery caused our idea of the reduced VAT of gyms, and this time the new importers only needed two and a half months to recognize this idea. From the will and this time we will not fight over whose idea it is. The important thing is to make it happen because the measure will stimulate more people to exercise, live healthy and have a strong immune system. In this sense this is part of the prevention for the health of Bulgarians, and it is of national importance. Colleagues from the United Patriarchs, we see that you are keeping a close eye on our work. A word of advice: if you need any ideas, let me know! You are in a hurry to learn our ideas as European funds quickly and at all costs. Vola has many, and it is useful for both people and business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u83	Thank you, dear Mrs. Georgieva. Go ahead, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u84	Thank you, Madam President. This procedure also concerns you and I will urge you to take matters into your own hands and implement what is necessary for coordination in the National Assembly with regard to the idea of the party "Ataka" which we have been launching in society for a long time. It is high time for Bulgarian society, Bulgarian institutions to react. This is the question of St. Sofia in Constantinople, which, you all know, has been turned back into a mosque. I will not put forward arguments and justify why this is a civilisational choice and what is the role of us Bulgarians in this regard. I want to let you know that I went through all the parliamentary groups today. I have given them a draft decision with motives, with which I also call on the Foreign Ministry to take a position on the issue before the Turkish side. It is for example, subject to changes and any party can submit ideas, proposals. So far, I have not presented the draft decision to the DPS since I do not see any of the leaders, but I see Mr. Ademov to him I will give him this Project. [[The National Representative Hasan Ademov does not accept the document.]] Why, Mr. Ademov, are you reacting negatively? What's wrong with that? To discuss it with you, to have a position. Besides, Mr. Tsonev is a theologian and I think he has no different position than everyone else in this room. I believe that the way that the leaders or representing parliamentary groups have adopted my proposal is extremely positive and there is a soil and a place for this to be done. In addition to the parliamentary question, which I asked Mrs. Zaharieva and sounded in plenary on Friday and the opinion of individual political forces in Bulgaria on the subject, there has been no official position by a state institution on the subject so far. Madam President, I ask you, within the limits of your powers, to take action to coordinate the opinion and possible will of the political forces in Parliament, to take a position on this subject and to be entrusted to the Foreign Ministry to react accordingly. This will be useful to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In a conversation with Mrs. Zaharieva, I was impressed that she, as a minister and a representative of the Bulgarian state, would be in the service of Parliament to give her opportunities and its support in order to react adequately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u85	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. If you've given the Declaration to the parliamentary groups, I'll make it possible for us to hear the opinions of our colleagues. Thank you. Colleagues! ? RESPONSIBILITY? No 1848-NS on the announcement of the elected MP in the Twenty-fourth Election Region of Sofia, at the place of Vladislav Ivanov Goranov With a letter in my letter. No NS-02-7 of 27 July 2020 in the Central Election Commission received a decision of the National Assembly of 24 July 2020, with which on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria are suspended the powers of the National Representative Vladislav Ivanov Goranov, elected by the Twenty-fourth Election Region of Sofia, erected from the list of GERB party in the 44th National Assembly. According to the provision of art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code The Central Election Commission should declare as a MP the next candidate on the list of GERB party. By Decision No 1843-NC of 16 July 2020 of the CEC, on the basis of art. 302, para. 2 of the Election Code The Central Election Commission has declared as a MP in the Twenty-fourth Election Region Sofia, next on the candidate list of GERB party under No. 8 Kalin Lubenov Velov until the return of the elected MP Vladislav Goranov. With the release of Vladislav Goranov as Minister of Finance, the powers of Kalin Lyubenov Velev as MP for replacement under the conditions of art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 2 sentence second of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, respectively art. 302, para. 2 of the Election Code has been terminated. In view of the fact that Vladislav Ivanov Goranov's powers as MP have been suspended due to resignation, Kalin Lubenov Velov, who is next on the candidate list of GERB party, should be declared MP. On the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1 and Art. 1 247, t. Article 6 in conjunction with Article 6 302, para. 1 of the Election Code Central Election Commission HAS DECIDED Announces Kalin Lyubenov Velyov, EGN..., as MP from the Forty-fourth National Assembly from the list of the political party GERB in the twenty-fourth election district of Sofia. Please invite Mr. Velev for the oath. Colleagues, please stand up for taking the oath. [[Everyone gets up.]] Mr. Veleov, come to the stand and repeat after me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u86	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u87	Colleagues, let's get back to work. First item of today's agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR SOCIAL SERVICES. Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u88	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Allow me to make a procedural proposal for admission in the hall of the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Zornitsa Rusinova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u89	Please vote on the procedure so made for admission. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Invite Mrs. Rusinova to the hall. Mr. Ademov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u90	"Report on General Law No 053-08-23 of 17 July 2020 on the first vote of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Social Services, No 054-01-55, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 23 June 2020, and the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Social Services, No 054-01-71, submitted by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs on 14 July 2020, drawn up on the basis of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Social Services Act is amended and supplemented by the Social Services Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u91	Statements? I can't see. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the Law. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Under § 1 there is a proposal of the MP Milko Nedyalkov: Paragraph 1 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Svetlana Angelova and Nikolay Sirakov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In The social services are not services within the meaning of the Commercial Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u92	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote first the unsupported proposal of the MP Milko Nedyalkov. Vote 95 MPs: 8 against 75 abstentions 12. The offer is not accepted. I am now subjecting the version of § 1 to the Commission Report. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u93	Proposal of the MPs Kristian Vigenin, Nadia Klisurska, Violeta Zheleva, Georgi Gokov, Dora Yankova and Valentina Naydenova: "1." ##1a 1a 1l: supposed to be in the same condition as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7, para. 2 after the word "uses" shall be § 1b. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Al. 1 is amended as follows: The municipal councils: 1. define the municipal policy in the field of social services in accordance with the established needs at municipal level and the priorities of state policy; 2. assign the provision of social services financed by the state and municipal budget to private providers of social services. 2. In para. 2 t. Seven is canceled. § 1c. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27, para. 1 the words................................................................................. 26, t. 3 "7" is replaced by "c." 26, t. Three, five, six, and seven. § 1d. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 29, para. 3, p. 3 is finally added when the possibilities under point are exhausted. One and two. § 1e. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 31. 3 is § 1f. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 41, para. 2 t. Five is canceled. § 1g. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57, para. 1, t. 2 the word "informed' shall be replaced by the approval granted by the "supplier', and the words "supplied' shall be replaced by the pre-supplied "supplied'. § 1h. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 63 para. 1 at the end of the word............................................................................................... § 1i. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 64, para. 1 the words "The Mayor of the municipality" are replaced by "The Municipal Council" and the words "the decision of the municipal council" are replaced by "the decision of the municipality." § 1k. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 67 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 The mayor of the municipality is replaced by the Municipal Council. 2. In para. 2, p. 3 the word "one year' is replaced by "one year'. § 1l. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u94	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Christian Vigenin and a group of MPs. Vote 96 MPs: 7 against 79, abstention 10. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u95	Under § 2 there is a proposal of the MP Milko Nedyalkov: Paragraph 2 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Svetlana Angelova, Galya Zhelyazkova and Kalin Velev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the Members of the National Assembly Svetlana Angelova and Nikolai Proposal of the National Representative Svetlana Angelova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the The individual assessment of the needs and individual support plan shall be drawn up on the basis of information provided by the person or obtained on the basis of his written consent. When assessing the needs and plan for supporting children, the information shall be provided by their parents, guardians or guardians accordingly.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u96	Statements? I can't see. First, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Milko Nedyalkov. Vote 96 MPs: 5 against 84, abstention 7. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version of Paragraph 2 of the Commission Report. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u97	Proposal of the MPs Svetlana Angelova, Galya Zhelyazkova and Kalin Velev to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Svetlana Angelova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. A new article shall be created. "Contribution to Child Support Requested by a Child" Art. 87. (1) Where a child has requested support from a social service provider, the provider shall immediately notify the "Social Assistance" Directorate and the parents, guardian or guardian of the child. (2) Where the child does not provide the supplier with information about his parents, guardian or guardian, they shall be notified by the A proposal from the MPs Svetlana Angelova, Galya Zhelyazkova and Kalin Velev to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MPs Svetlana Angelova and Kalin Velev, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 116, para. 1 the following additions are made: 1. A new t. is created. 3: "3." at the request of or on the basis of the consent of persons using social services in a home environment to visit and verify compliance with their rights and quality standards for the services provided; 2. A new t. is created. 7. "7." receive directly from the beneficiaries of social services, their opinion on the respect of their rights, as well as on the quality and effectiveness of their social services.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u98	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the newly created § 3 and the new § 4. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Proposal of the MPs Kristian Vigenin, Nadia Klisurska, Violeta Zheleva, Georgi Gokov, Dora Yankova and Valentina Naydenova: screated § 2a: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Art. 163 is repealed. The proposal was withdrawn in the course of the discussion. Under § 3 there is a proposal of the National Representative Svetlana Angelova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. The following amendments and additions shall be made in the Transitional and Final Orders: 1. In § 31: (a) in para. 1 the number (b) the creation of para. 4 and 5. Until the adoption of the Rules of Procedure of the Agency for the Quality of Social Services, the opinion under para. 2, p. Point 3 (c) shall be drawn up by the Inspectorate to the Executive Director of the Agency for Social Assistance. (5) Until the rules of application of the law are adopted: 1. directing all persons to use social services under para. 2, p. 1 shall be carried out only by "Societal assistance" by drawing up a written preliminary assessment under art. 73, para. 2 with the participation of the person within 20 days of requesting a request to use a service; 2. the individual assessment of the needs and the individual support plan for those wishing to use social services shall be drawn up in the order before signing the contract under art. 85; 3. The mayors of municipalities shall state in writing requests in the Agency for social assistance for prior approval to establish, change the number of users and the place of provision of social services under para. 2, p. 1, by submitting the documents and information required under the current order, with the exception of a decision of the municipal council; 4. The Executive Director of the Social Assistance Agency shall issue prior approval or refusal orders within 30 days of the request under point 4. 3; 5. the proceedings for the establishment, termination, change in the number of users and the place of the provision of social services under para. 2, p. 1 shall be completed in the current order. 2. In § 38: (a) in para. 1 the word "January' is replaced by "July'; (b) the creation of para. 3, 4 and 5: The legal proceedings for licensing by the President of the State Agency for Child Protection and the registration of licensed social service providers in the register of the Agency for Social Assistance shall be completed in the current order. (4) Until the establishment of the register under art. 162 The Agency for Social Assistance shall maintain the register of social service providers. (5) The municipal competitions for the award of the management of social services delegated by the State activities and local activities started and not closed until the entry into force of the law are completed in the current order. 3. Paragraph 39 creates para. 3 and 4: Until the adoption of the Rules of Procedure of the Agency for the Quality of Social Services, the President of the State Agency for Child Protection shall exercise control over compliance with the quality standards of social services for children under the current conditions and arrangements. (4) Until the adoption of the Rules of Procedure of the Agency for the Quality of Social Services, the inspectorate to the Executive Director of the Agency for Social Assistance shall exercise control under art. 31, para. 2 of the Law on Social Assistance in the Editorial till the entry into force of the Law under the current terms and conditions. 4. In § 44: (a) in para. 1 the words "seventh of January 2021' are replaced by "seventh of January 2022'; (b) in para. 2 the words "31 December 2020" shall be replaced by "31 December 2021"
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u99	Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 3, which shall become § 5 of the Commission Report. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u100	'Concluding provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u101	We vote on the text of the importer for the name of the subdivision. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u102	Under § 4 there is a proposal of the MP Milko Nedyalkov: Paragraph 4 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Svetlana Angelova and Nikolay Sirakov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Svetlana Angelova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... In the Law on Child Protection (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27, para. 6 the 2. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 27a: "Advertising the order for temporary accommodation by administrative order Art. 27a. (1) The order of the Director of the Department of Social Assistance under art. 27, para. 1, including in cases of emergency accommodation outside the family, is subject to prior enforcement under the law, but can be appealed by the parents of the child within 14 days of notification. (2) The Director of the Social Assistance Directorate shall send the complaint to the court on the first working day following its receipt. (3) The administrative case shall be brought within three days and scheduled within 7 days of the appeal to the court. (4) The time limits under the Administrative Procedure Code for the removal of irregularness of the complaint, the submission of a written reply to the complaint, the submission of a conclusion to an expert and the summoning of the parties shall not apply. The Court shall set a time limit for carrying out the relevant procedural action which may not be less than three days and longer than 7 days. (5) The Court shall give a decision within 7 days of the hearing in which the hearing of the case has been concluded. (6) The decision under para. 5 shall be subject to a cassation appeal under the Administrative Procedure Code. (7) The administrative case shall be dismissed if a decision under art. 28, para. 4 accommodating a child by court order. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 28 para. 3 is amended as follows: The Court of Justice shall immediately examine the request in open court with the participation of: 1. the authorities or persons making the request; 2. the child, subject to the provision of art. 15; 3. the parents or guardian/producer of the child. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36d, para. 3 the words "supplier of social service" shall be replaced by "supplier of the public budget-funded social service that the child is using." According to § 5 there is a proposal of the MP Milko Nedyalkov: "Paragraph 5 is out." The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Svetlana Angelova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 5 be rejected. Proposal of the National Representative Hasan Ademov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 7: .................................................... In the Law on Social Assistance (prom., SG No. Art....) 17 is canceled. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 6 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u103	Statements? I can't see. First, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Milko Nedyalkov. Vote 95 MPs: 8 against 81, abstention 6. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the version of § 4, which becomes § 6; the rejection of § 5; the new § 7 and the rejection of § 6. Vote 92 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u104	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. Colleagues, we move on to the next item on the agenda: SELECTION OF THE SUPERVISOR OF THE NATIONAL SUPERVISION INSTITUTE. The selection procedure is in accordance with the Rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 9 July 2020. You have the floor, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u105	Dear Mr. Chairman, allow me to make a procedural proposal in the Chamber to invite the candidate for the vice-president of the National Insurance Institute Vesela Karaivanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u106	I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Please invite Mrs. Karaivanova to the hall. You have the floor, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on the presentation and hearing of candidates for the sub-government of the National Insurance Institute The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a meeting held on 23 July 2020, held a hearing of the proposed candidates for the Governor of the National Insurance Institute under Section IV of the Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for the Governor of the National Insurance Institute, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Commission, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly, hereinafter referred to as the Rules of Procedure. After the opening of the meeting, the Chairman of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Dr. Hasan Ademov recalled the main points of the Rules of Procedure for conducting the hearing. He noted that the requirements of Chapters I, II and III of the Rules of Procedure have been complied with, the documents submitted have been verified. In connection with Chapter III of the Rules of Procedure, a letter from the President of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee requested preliminary examination of the applicant under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. In response was received a letter from the Commission for the disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, signed by its President Mr. Evtim Kostadinov, from which it is apparent that no data establishing belonging under art. 1 of the special law. By letter to Mrs. Miglena Vezeva, Director of Human Resources Management at the National Assembly, the President of the Commission asked for an examination to be carried out to establish that the candidate for deputy of the National Insurance Institute was not sentenced to imprisonment for crimes of a general nature. In response, a letter was received that the applicant was not sentenced to prison for crimes of a general nature. It was concluded that the applicant for the sub-government of the National Insurance Institute complies with the requirements of the Social Security Code and the rules of procedure for taking the relevant position for which it was proposed. In this context, the applicant should be admitted to the hearing held at an open meeting of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee and broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. Mrs. Vesela Nikolova Karaivanova-Nacheva's candidacy has been raised for the governor of the National Insurance Institute. The application was proposed by the MPs Daniela Daritkova, Iskren Veselinov, Valeri Simeonov, Menda Stoyanova, Boris Yachev, Krasimir Tsipov, Valentin Kasabov, Claudia Gancheva and Emil Tonchev. Ms. Vesela Karaivanova's candidacy was presented by the MP from the parliamentary group of GERB Ms. Svetlana Angelova. Vesela Karaivanova-Nacheva has completed higher economic education at the University of National and World Economy, a major in accounting. His professional career began in 1989 as an economist. Between 1992 and 2004, he consistently held different positions in the tax administration. Member of the National Assembly of the 39th National Assembly. Member of the Parliamentary Committee on Budget and Finance, the Parliamentary Committee on Agriculture and Forestry and the Temporary Parliamentary Committee for Verification of Intergovernmental Credit Agreements provided by other countries. She was elected as the deputy governor of the National Insurance Institute in 2005 and re-elected in 2009 and 2016 with decisions of the National Assembly. From April 2011 to June 2016, Ms. Karaivanova co-ordinates the functions of Director of the Fund. He is a key leader in the project "Construction of optimization in state institutions" and member of the Management Board of the State Fund to ensure the sustainability of the state pension system, member of the Advisory Council of the National Revenue Agency, member of the National Council for Child Protection. According to the rules of procedure, the candidate for the sub-government of the National Insurance Institute presented her concept. Mrs. Vesela Karaivanova presented her concept for the development of the Institute in the period 2020 - 2024. She started her presentation with the fact that the National Insurance Institute is an administration which under the Social Security Code is entrusted with the management of state social security. It also has important functions regarding the administration of the Teacher's Pension Fund, as well as the administrative, technical, legal and accounting provision of the activities of the Fund. The Institute is responsible for nearly 10% of the gross domestic product of Bulgaria. This scale of its activity requires a great deal of responsibility for the effective, efficient and lawful management of this public resource. A prerequisite for this is the stability of a working organisation subject to the principles of: - accountability to the public; - transparency in the results; - continuity and predictability in actions; - tripartism and participation of citizens in government; - Dynamicity and adaptability to change. The main point in the concept of Vesela Karaivanova is to ensure the successful implementation of the existing Strategy for Development of the National Insurance Institute for the period 2018 "2021." According to Mrs. Vesela Karaivanova, the vision of the activities of the National Insurance Institute can be determined through the following five priorities: The National Insurance Institute should continue to be established as a prestigious place of work; to provide accessible and quality administrative service; to make it possible for electronic insurance; to become a leader in countering insurance fraud; to remain a secure and reliable partner in national and international terms; to exercise activity in the transition from national currency to the euro. This vision can be achieved through the tools of security and continuity, legality, accountability, good financial management, dynamism and flexibility, transparency and tripartism and participation of citizens in the processes. Vesela Karaivanova focused on each of the priorities of the vision for the activity. Regarding the transformation of the National Insurance Institute into a prestigious place of work, she said she is ready to offer programs for the continuity of key positions and training programs with specific content for the work of the National Insurance Institute. The Institute staff must work in responsible and safe working conditions, adhere to high ethical standards and be engaged in socially significant causes. As regards the provision of affordable and quality administrative services, according to Ms. Karaivanova it can happen by introducing in full the common standards of administrative service; reducing the number of visits at a desk; introducing specific standards for the quality of administrative service; expanding and enriching the forms of service to citizens in the Contact Centre and extending the channels for sharing the satisfaction of users of services. With regard to the introduction of electronic security Ms. Karaivanova noted that it is possible, as the National Insurance Institute is transformed into a digital organization by developing a new cybersecurity and information protection policy and developing a policy for information and knowledge management. Vesela Karaivanova paid particular attention to turning the National Insurance Institute into a leader in countering insurance fraud. She said it is necessary to develop a strategic plan to identify, prevent and correct errors and insurance fraud. This strategy will refer to several elements, namely: a unified approach; risk management; partnership and coordination; accountability; use of large data and analytical techniques and development of prevention culture. Ms. Karaivanova is ready to work towards turning the National Insurance Institute into a secure and reliable partner in national and international terms through partnership with public authorities and social partners, through partnership with the National Revenue Agency, the Ministry of Health, the National Health Insurance Fund, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Agency for Social Assistance to upgrade the national system for electronic exchange of social security data through partnership with the supplementary pension insurance companies and through active participation in international social security processes, partnership with other insurance institutions. As regards the strategic initiative for the introduction of the euro as a single currency in Bulgaria and the administration of the insurance system as part of this initiative, Ms. Karaivanova said she is ready to join the teams that will adapt the accounting systems, documents and standards, will adapt the information systems and recalculate the amounts of orders. In the discussion were asked questions by the MPs Violeta Jeleva, Hasan Ademov, Nadia Klisurska and Kalin Popovski. Ms. Violeta Jeleva asked a question related to the possibilities for improving control in the management of the financial resources of the state social security and implementation of the activities of the National Insurance Institute. In his reply, Vesela Karaivanova said that the risk and prevention of insurance fraud was deliberate, whether by no means, is extremely important for the National Insurance Institute and for the management of public resources. This would not be possible without the interaction with the other institutions, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Health, with regard to disability pensions, the National Revenue Agency, the Labour Inspection and the Employment Agency, with regard to the fictitious forms of employment that are increasingly observed. In her concept Mrs. Karaivanova has set several approaches in terms of control. First of all, it is a uniform approach, i.e. the methodology for applying the decision-making circumstances for sending the benefits to each territorial unit to be unified, to synchronise it with the judicial decisions that have come forward in this regard. Second is risk management. He needs to be analyzed and identified. Risk management is at stake as an independent strategic document and will be carried out through internal audit, through audit trails and sound financial management. Dr. Hasan Ademov asked a question related to the development of human resources, their qualification and requalification: will the activities and services of the National Insurance Institute become attractive for quality candidates and not for those who are difficult to cope with their duties? Ms. Karaivanova stressed in her reply that the development of the human factor is extremely important in an institution such as the National Insurance Institute. This year the library of knowledge has started and developed. At the National Insurance Institute there are extremely many forms of training, forms of mentoring, forms of continuity from older to younger employees. The Institute's employees have institutional affiliations, they are corporate socially responsible, they are involved in various social initiatives and with support from the management, they create quality products in their activities. People's representative Nadia Klisurska asked a question concerning the reorganization of the processes during the coronavirus crisis: how has this crisis affected consumer satisfaction and was access to services for citizens difficult? Vesela Karaivanova said that the forms that were established for communication between citizens and the National Insurance Institute were several. The electronic form is just one of them. In exported jobs and in the territorial structures of the National Insurance Institute, pensioners could at any time submit their pension application, send it in the mail together with the relevant documents. The admissions of the National Insurance Institute during the coronavirus have not stopped working. The contact form of the Contact Centre was used very strongly through Bulgarian Post Offices for Contact with the National Insurance Institute. An application for a pension could be lodged in any branch of a bank and in any branch of the Bulgarian Post Office. An organization has been established through the Public Council of Pensioners' Organizations upon their request that employees of the National Insurance Institute go on the ground and assist members of the pension organizations in completing the documents. Dr. Kalin Popovski asked a question related to the issuance of hospital quarantine sheets in relation to the CIVID pandemic and if there is an overcost in the state social security budget for this reason. What funds must be laid down in the new budget to respond to the expansion of the coronavirus crisis? Ms. Karaivanova noted that at the moment hospital lists total quarantine, including for CIVID for the period 13 March 22 July, are 23 400 pieces. The number of hospital sheets for COVID alone is 10 499. The total number of hospital lists plus those involving quarantine is 790 869. In digital terms, this is a 20.7% increase in the cost of temporary incapacity. The funds for next year are foreseen. Ms. Karaivanova said that, within the preliminary reporting data, excluding hospital lists issued for quarantine, whether due to the CIVID or other types of diseases that suggest quarantine, the number of hospital lists for the past 6 months of the year has decreased significantly by 265 thousand, which has its impact in financial terms as well. After the end of the discussion with the MPs, the President of the Commission Dr. Hasan Ademov announced that in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy no questions were received from NGOs and media, as well as opinions on the proposed candidacy for the Governor of the National Insurance Institute. At the end of the discussion, the Chairman of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy recalled that in relation to Chapter 5a, i.e. 9 of the Rules of Procedure the Commission will draw up within the meaning of art. 93, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a report from the hearing will be attached to it and a draft decision will be adopted for the election of the Governor of the National Insurance Institute. After the discussion was concluded and on the basis of the hearing, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy proposed to the National Assembly to examine, discuss and vote in accordance with Section V of the Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the proposal of candidates for the sub-government of the National Insurance Institute, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee, as well as the procedure for the selection by the National Assembly of Mrs. Vesela Nikolova Karaivanova-Nacheva as the chairman of the National Insurance Institute.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u108	Please present the Project.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u109	Project! DECISION on the election of a sub-governeur of the National Insurance Institute The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 37, para. 1 of the Social Security Code HAS DECIDED She has chosen Vesela Nikolova Karaivanova-Nacheva as the vice-governor of the National Insurance Institute.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u110	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. Who's going to submit the candidacy? Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u111	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the basis of art. 37, para. 1 of the Social Security Code and the Decision of the National Assembly of 9 July 2020 on Rules of Procedure for the Offering of Candidates for the Governor of the National Insurance Institute, Presentation and Public Disclosure of Documents and Hearing of Candidates in the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee, as well as the procedure for selection by the National Assembly, we propose as Sub-Manager of the National Insurance Institute the candidacy of Vesela Nikolova Karaivanova-Nacheva. Vesela Karaivanova-Nacheva has completed higher economic education at the University of National and World Economy, a major in accounting. His professional career began in 1989 as an economist. Between 1992 and 2004, he consistently held different positions in the tax administration. She has been elected MP at the Thirty-nineth National Assembly since 17. Mir Plovdiv-district. She was elected as a deputy governor of the National Insurance Institute in 2005 and was re-elected in 2009 and 2016 by decision of the National Assembly. From April 2011 to June 2016, Mrs. Karaivanova co-ordinates the functions of Fund Director She was a member of the Management Board of the State Fund to ensure the sustainability of the state pension system, a member of the Advisory Council of the National Revenue Agency, a member of the National Council for Child Protection. Mrs. Karaivanova was responsible for the creation of new structures as vice governor of the National Insurance Institute. In its activities at the National Insurance Institute, it directs its efforts towards consistency of processes, responsibility, effectiveness in achieving time-resistant results based on transparency and legality. During his work he introduced good practices and models as well as procedures for examining signals and complaints and supported the optimization of the activities of the Institute. It is established as a professional who knows the structure and helps improve interinstitutional relations. Maintains good and rapid communication with the national representation, NGOs, employers and trade unions. Everything set out so far gives us reason to propose Mrs. Vesela Karaivanova-Nacheva for the position of Governor of the National Insurance Institute. The same has high professional and moral qualities such as consolidation and public recognition, which is why we believe that it meets the requirements for choice under the internal rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u112	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I am opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the draft decision presented to you. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Karaivanova, congratulations and good luck! [[Noise and lines.]] You want to say a few words? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u113	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Thank you for your confidence, thank you for your support and your nomination! This support is extremely binding. I am excited because from 2005 until now, and also in my next term as a governor of the National Insurance Institute, I have been led and will continue to be guided by four basic principles: continuity, security, legality and transparency in the management of the funds of the State Social Security in the public benefit of insured persons and citizens who need social protection. The management of the National Insurance Institute, and currently with the manager and the governor, ensures the lawful implementation of government policies in the implementation of the activities we administer and management of public resources, which is 10% of gross domestic product. Here is the place to assure you that a successful supervisor would not be such if there were no army of professionals and experts working in his organization. I would like to thank all employees in the territorial units of the National Insurance Institute and the Central Government because thanks to their qualification and expert assistance the management has been successful. The trust he has in the National Assembly and in you, as MPs in the institution, is extremely important for institutional security. Thank you, we will work to justify trust! Thank you! [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u114	Thank you. Good luck to you. Let's continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR ANIMAL TREATMENT. The people's representative Irena Dimova and a group of MPs are importing. The bill was adopted in the first vote on 17 July 2020. You're welcome to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u115	Dear Mr. Chairman! On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please vote to be granted access to the meeting of the National Assembly for associate professor Dr. Janko Ivanov, Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, and Dr. Petya Petkova, Director of the Department of Agriculture, Food and Forestry.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u116	I shall put to the vote the proposal for admission made in this House. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Please present the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u117	Report on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Veterinary Activity Act, No 054-01-70, submitted by the National Representative Irena Dimova and a group of MPs on 10 July 2020, adopted in the first vote on 17 July 2020. The second vote is the same as the second vote. "Renewal and Supplement to the Veterinary Activity Act." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 1 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u118	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law and the Commission's proposal for the rejection of § 1 by importer. They voted 83 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u119	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 which shall become § 1. Proposal from the MPs Bürhan Abas and Imren Mehmedova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 137 the following 1. In para. 1: (a) in the text before t. 1 words indicating the number and date of issue of a document for putting the site into service or a certificate of tolerance of the building in accordance with § 16 of the previous provisions of the Law on the Construction of the Area, where required under the Law on the Construction of the Area are deleted; (b) point 1 is amended as follows: "1." a copy of a property document or other document proving the right of use or possession of the site or of the property on which the site is situated; 2. In para. 9, p. 7 the word "technology" is replaced by "technology" for the way and technology.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u120	Statements? I can't see. I will put to the vote the text of the importer for § 2 which becomes § 1; and the Commission's proposal to create a new § 2 with a text on the Commission report. They voted 86 MPs: 84, none, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u121	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. Article 3 is replaced by Art. 144a. (1) The independent valuer shall draw up an evaluation report and make it available to the contracting entity under art. 144, para. 3, which by order appoints a commission to check the execution. (2) The Executive Director of BABX shall, by order, validate criteria for: 1. carrying out the verification of the implementation under para. 1 and the assessment report drawn up; 2. compliance of the prices determined by the independent valuer with the market value for the particular species and category of animals for which no marginal prices have been set in the ordinance under art. 109. (3) The Commission under para. 1 within 5 days of the verification, an opinion shall be drawn up to the contracting authority for the acceptance of the evaluation report or for its return to processing. (4) On the basis of the opinion of the Commission, the contracting authority shall: 1. adopt the evaluation report; 2. returns the valuation report with instructions for complete or partial revision. (5) Where the valuer refuses to revise the valuation report or the revised report does not comply with the criteria under para. 2, no remuneration shall be paid to him and the performance of the assessment shall be entrusted to another valuer. (6) In the cases under para. 5 when carrying out the assessment is assigned to another valuer, the procedure under para. 1........................................................... (7) When the valuer under para. 6 refuses to revise the valuation report or the revised report does not comply with the criteria under para. 2, no remuneration shall be paid, and compensation shall be determined by the Committee under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u122	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 3; as well as the text of the importer for § 4. Vote 92 MPs: 90, none, abstention 2. The texts put to the vote have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u123	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u124	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote for paragraphs 5 and 6. 90 MPs voted: 88, none, abstention 2. The texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u125	A proposal from the MP Yordan Apostolov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Tsvetan Topchiev, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to set up a section of the Final provision. The Commission proposes to establish § 7: .................................................... Owners or users of establishments with the exception of holdings of personal holdings for which no registration certificate under art has been issued at the date of entry into force of this law. 137, para. 6 and where animals are kept or accommodated, identified in the system under art. 51, para. 3 shall apply for registration of the establishment referred to in Article 3. 137, para. 1, within 6 months of the entry into force of this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u126	Thank you. Statements? I put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the creation of a "Concluding provision', as well as the Commission's proposal for the creation of a new § 7 with a text on the Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u127	Vote 92 MPs: 90, none, abstention 2. The proposal is adopted, with which we have concluded the second vote on the Law on Veterinary Practice. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE SUPERVISION AND THE BEAUTIFULS. Who will present the Committee on Legal Affairs Report? Mrs. Alexandrova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before that, I ask for a procedure for admission in the hall of Mr. Daniel Indjiev, Vice-President of the State Agency for Refugees at the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u129	I'm voting on the motion for admission. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Mr. Injiev, if he pleases, order him to his place in the National Assembly box. Please continue with the presentation of the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Asylum and Refugees, No 002-01-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 July 2020. At its meeting held on 22 July 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Asylum and Refugees Act, No 002-01-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 July 2020. The meeting was attended by the State Agency for Refugees at the Council of Ministers: Mr. Daniel Indjiev, Vice-President, and Mrs. Anna Dzhambazka-Kirova, Head of the Department of Legal Protection of Refugees and by Mrs. Ekaterina Baxanova from the Bulgarian Helsinki Committee: Mrs. Iliana Savova from the Institute for Market Economics: Ms. Ekaterina Baxanova from the Bulgarian Legal Expert. The draft was presented by Mr. Indjiev, who pointed out that it precises the national legislation on international protection in line with the recommendations of the European Commission and provides the necessary procedural guarantees to foreigners seeking international protection provided for in Directive 2013/33/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 laying down standards on the admission of applicants for international protection (Acceptive Directive) and Directive 2013/32/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on common procedures for granting and withdrawing international protection [[Procedure Directive]] . The Bill changes the concept of a secure third country, providing that the origin of a foreigner from such a country is grounds for rejecting the application and not a reason for the termination of the proceedings, as in the previous order. In this regard, the necessary procedural guarantees shall be provided to examine the relationship between the alien and the third secure country through an individual security check in the country of the applicant concerned and the obligation to duly inform the applicant of the procedure for granting international protection. The grounds for termination of the proceedings for granting international protection shall be detailed, while providing for judicial review of the refusal and ensuring that all relevant facts and evidence relating to the country of origin and the individual situation of the applicant will be examined when examining the application. An opportunity shall be introduced to reopen the proceedings for the examination of the application for international protection within 9 months of the termination and representation of unaccompanied minors shall be provided for foreigners in order to ensure the child's best interests. The draft law specifies the provisions for the identification of an international protection seeker to a vulnerable group or group of special needs by identifying and assessing needs and establishing a support plan. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the procedures for the withdrawal of international protection, termination or refusal of renewal of refugee status or humanitarian status shall be further developed by carrying out on purpose proceedings, subject to all procedural guarantees, including the provision of judicial review. The proposed changes shall ensure the awareness of beneficiaries of their obligation to arrange their stay in the territory of the country and shall complement the sources of information about the countries of origin. In accordance with the principle of speed and procedural economy, changes to the procedures for determining the State responsible for examining the application for international protection and the procedures for examining the evidence are envisaged. Ms Savova presented the opinion of the Bulgarian Helsinki Committee approving the standards in the field of international protection introduced by the Law. Asked by the MP Dimitar Lazarov about the representation of a minor or minor foreigner, Mr. Injiev pointed out that the exercise of the function of representative of an unaccompanied minor or minor candidate for international protection will be entrusted to a lawyer registered at the National Legal Aid Office and will take place until the person is accommodated with his parent, guardian or guardian. As a result of the vote held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 21 votes for the European Parliament, without votes, proposed that the National Assembly adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Asylum and Refugees Act, No 002-01-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 July 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. To familiarize the National Assembly with the Report of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, I give the floor to the President of the Commission Mr. Slavcho Atanasov! [[Happy excitement, partial applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u132	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On 22 July 2020, the Commissioner for Children, Youth and Sports at a regular meeting held on 22 July 2020 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Asylum and Refugees Act, No 002-01-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 July 2020. The meeting was attended by representatives of the State Agency for Refugees at the Council of Ministers: Mr. Indjiev The bill was presented by Mr. Daniel Indzhiev, who noted that the main purpose of the proposed bill is amendments to the Law on Asylum and Refugees and its alignment with the requirements of European legislation and the recommendations of the European Commission on two criminal procedures which were opened against the Republic of Bulgaria. The bill clears all the recommendations the Commission has made to our country. The most significant amendment is related to the representation of unaccompanied minors who have requested international protection in Bulgaria to be submitted by lawyers from the register of the National Bureau for Legal Aid and not by representatives of municipalities, as at present. The reason for this is the insufficient number of employees from municipal administrations and the lack of the necessary knowledge, skills and experience for working with unaccompanied children. On the other hand, the preparation that the lawyers representing the unaccompanied children have will help them in carrying out their duties. The Law saves one additional procedure for appointing a procedural representative of those children in the administrative proceedings itself, whereby the lawyer will act both as a procedural representative and as a representative as a whole of the unaccompanied children. The other part of the changes are related to the purely practical implementation of the Law. The procedural provisions relating to the conduct of the procedure are proposed to be refined so that, under the conditions of increased migration pressure, procedural actions can be saved, but without guaranteeing the quality of the final individual administrative acts. The provisions relating to the appeal and the application of the so-called Dublin Regulation are revised. The importer believes that with the adoption of these changes the recommendations of the European Commission will be implemented, which will lead to the termination of criminal procedures against the Republic of Bulgaria. Under the bill, an opinion was received from the State Agency for Child Protection, which supports the changes and believes that they would lead to guaranteeing the rights and interests of migrant children. As a result of the discussion held and on the basis of the vote held with 17 votes in favour, without the opposition and 1 vote, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Asylum and Refugee Act, No 002-01-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 July 2020, and thank you for listening to me, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u133	Let us thank Mr. Atanasov for the precise and comprehensive report of the Commission. Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Report of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Who's gonna introduce him? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u134	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I suggest to your attention: ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Religions and Human Rights on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Asylum and Refugees, No 002-01-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 July 2020. At a regular meeting held on 23 July 2020, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Asylum and Refugees, No 002-01-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 July 2020. The meeting was attended by representatives of the State Agency for Refugees at the Council of Ministers: Mr. Daniel Indjiev, Vice-President, and Ms. Anna Dzhambazka-Kirova, Head of Department of Production. The bill was presented by Mr. Daniel Injiev. He pointed out that two criminal procedures have been established against the Republic of Bulgaria concerning the transposition and application of Directive 2013/33/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 laying down standards on the acceptance of applicants for international protection (Acceptive Directive) and Directive 2013/32/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on common procedures for granting and withdrawing international protection [[Procedure Directive]] . The Bill aims to remedy the deficiencies in the national system for granting international protection by clarifying the provisions of the law in accordance with the recommendations of the European Commission. The main changes are aimed at the representation of the unaccompanied minors who applied for international protection in the Republic of Bulgaria. The exercise of the function of representatives of unaccompanied applicants for protection is envisaged to be entrusted to lawyers from the Register for Legal Assistance to the National Legal Aid Office. In this way, speed and efficiency will be achieved in the appointment of a representative, procedural and financial economy and the need to carry out additional activities to engage in legal aid will be removed. Mr. Injiev pointed out that changes to the procedure for international protection are also envisaged, which will ensure its effectiveness in the conditions of increased migratory pressure. In order to improve administrative control with regard to beneficiaries of international protection, provision is made for their obligation to submit an application for the issue of Bulgarian personal documents within 30 days of entry into the register of the population. It has been pointed out that the submitted bill will fully meet the requirements and recommendations of the European Commission. The following discussion was attended by the MPs Krasimir Velchev and Chavdar Velinov. They expressed their support for the Bill by uniting themselves around the idea that some of the proposed amendments are particularly important because they are in the interest of one of the most vulnerable groups of people seeking protection. The Members of the National Assembly also stressed the need for the adoption of the Bill on the implementation of the European Commission recommendations and termination of open infringement procedures. Following the debates held, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, with 14 votes in favour, with no votes, proposed to the National Assembly that the Law amending and supplementing the Asylum and Refugees Act, No 002-01-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 July 2020, should be adopted on the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Alexieva. The report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government will be presented by the President of the Commission Mr. Iskren Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Asylum and Refugees Act, No 002-01-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 15 July 2020, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Asylum and Refugees, No 002-01-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 July 2020. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Daniel Indjiev Vice-President of the State Agency for Refugees at the Council of Ministers. The reasons requiring the adoption of the proposed amendments and additions are dictated by the need to review and refine national legislation in the field of international protection with a view to ensuring and ensuring to a greater extent the speed, efficiency of proceedings conducted under the Law. The European Commission identified deficiencies in the national system for granting international protection which are linked to incomplete and inaccurate transposition of specific provisions of European legislation. The Commission's criticisms are primarily aimed at ensuring the legal and procedural guarantees of asylum seekers to a greater extent with a focus on foreigners belonging to a vulnerable group, in particular with regard to unaccompanied minors. The part related to municipal obligations provides for a new version on the representation of unaccompanied minors who have applied for international protection in the Republic of Bulgaria, as one of the European Commission's most important criticisms of the national system of international protection is regarding the protection of the best interests of unaccompanied children, candidates for protection. Under the current provision of an unaccompanied minor or minor foreigner seeking or receiving international protection on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, a representative of the municipal administration appointed by the mayor of the municipality or an official authorised by him shall be appointed. The Commission raises doubts as to the effectiveness of the mechanism in force for representatives in the international protection proceedings, noting the insufficient number of employees from municipal administrations and the lack of the necessary knowledge, skills and experience for working with unaccompanied children. On a proposal from the National Legal Aid Office, the Draft provides that the exercise of the function of representatives of unaccompanied applicants for protection is to be entrusted to lawyers from the Register for Legal Assistance to the Bureau. This will achieve speed and efficiency in the appointment of a representative, as well as procedural and financial economy. The need for additional actions and procedures to engage in legal aid will be removed and the standard required for the availability of the necessary knowledge and skills for the performance of this function will be provided. The proposed version of this part of the Law complements procedural guarantees in accordance with the principle of the best interest of the child provided for in the Rules of Procedure and complies with the recommendations of the European Commission to further develop the provisions on the representation of this vulnerable group of applicants for protection. An unaccompanied child is to be informed immediately of his appointed representative. The duties of the representative are regulated, requiring the same person to have the necessary knowledge, to assist the child in the procedure for granting international protection, including to inform the child of the meaning and possible consequences of the personal interview and, if necessary, how to prepare for the same. It is also envisaged that a representative cannot be a person whose interests are in conflict or could possibly be in conflict with the interests of the unaccompanied child. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 12 votes for the Council of Ministers, without the opposition, and 5 votes for the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, proposed to the National Assembly a draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Asylum and Refugees, No 002-01-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-29.u137	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. Voting mode. [[Noise, lines from MP Spas Gurnevsky.]] We're already in voting mode, Mr. Gurnevsky. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Asylum and Refugees, No 002-01-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 July 2020. Vote 96 MPs: 90, none, abstention 6. The bill was passed at first reading. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda, I am adjourned. The next meeting of the National Assembly is tomorrow, 30 July 2020, Thursday, at 9.00 p.m., on the adopted programme. [[Ringing]] .
