ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u1	We have a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Before continuing with the points of the Programme messages: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on passage through and residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces by its order has authorised the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of an Il-76 aircraft with its crew from the Air Force of Ukraine. The authorisation shall be valid for the period from 3 to 10 June 2020 for a total of two fields to support the logistical support of Ukraine's forces involved in the UN Peace Support Operation in Congo. The notification was received on 27 May 2020. No 003-09-38 and granted to the Defence Committee. Let's continue with: This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Here you are, Mrs. Zaharieva, to present the First Voting Report to the Committee on Education and Science.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, before I read the Report, please allow procedure in the hall of Deputy Minister of Education and Science Karina Angeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u3	I shall put to the vote the motion for admission to the Chamber. Vote 150 MPs: for 149, no objection, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please continue with the presentation of the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u4	♪ I can't believe for a first vote on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of consulting services between the Ministry of Education and Science and the Executive Agency............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... At its extraordinary meeting held on 21 May 2020, the Education and Science Committee discussed the Draft for ratification of the Agreement on the Provision of Consulting Services between the Ministry of Education and Science and the Executive Agency of the Ministry of Education and the Operational Programme for Science and Education for Smart Growth and Bulgaria, of the one part, and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, of the other part, signed on 12 February 2020, No 002-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 May 2020. The meeting was attended by Mr. Krasimir Valchev, Minister of Education and Science, Ms. Karina Angeliev, Deputy Minister of Education and Science, and Mr. Kiril Geratliev, Executive Director of the Executive Agency, Operational Program for Science and Education for Smart Growth.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u5	Excuse me, Mrs. Zaharieva. Colleagues, it's a little louder than usual. You know what I mean? And again, I'm embarrassed to mention names. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u6	The project was presented by Mrs. Karina Angeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u7	Mr. Genov, please! Mr. Manol Genov, please! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u8	The Agreement is implemented by the signed Memorandum of Understanding of 1 September 2015 between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for Partnership and Support in the Implementation of the European Structural and Investment Funds. The aim of this bill is to provide a basis for cooperation with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development in the field of science and education and to support the process of programming the new Operational Programme for Science and Education and for the next programming period. The expected result is the bank to provide in science an action plan and recommendations on increasing the effectiveness of public investment in research and development, as well as on programming adequate operations in the research and innovation sector. The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development will support the Ministry of Education and Science in preparing a consolidated evidence-based approach to develop a National Strategic Framework for Education by 2030. The Bank will support the identification and prioritization of policy objectives, the necessary reforms and formulation of strategic programmes to support the implementation of the strategy, as well as provide evaluation and recommendations on the overall approach and level of sectoral and political coherence of the strategic education framework by 2030. The Agreement shall expire on the day of the expiry of the twenty-two months from the date of its entry into force. The discussion on the Law included the national representative Irena Anastasova, who asked how a strategic framework in the field of education can be developed by 2030, when there is no such framework for the development of the economy. The representatives of the Ministry of Education and Science confirmed the need for a close link between the economy and education. They informed that they worked permanently and purposefully closely with the Ministry of Economy and took into account all their forecasts for the country's development as part of global development. In the course of the discussion, a technical discrepancy in the name of the bill was also found. After the discussion was concluded and a vote was held with a result of 13 votes, 5 votes against the Council of Ministers on 4 May 2020, and without abstention, the Committee on Education and Science proposed to the National Assembly to adopt proposals by the Council of Ministers on 4 May 2020, with the suspended technical discrepancy in the name, reading the Draft Agreement on the ratification of the Agreement for the provision of consulting services between the Ministry of Education and Science and the Executive Agency of the Ministry of Education and Science and Science and Education for Intelligent Growth and Bulgaria, on the one hand, and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, on the other hand, signed on 12 February 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u9	Thank you. You have the floor to speak. I'm opening the debate. Come in, Mr. Tsonkov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! I would like to address our so presented Agreement between the World Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Ministry of Education and Science. First of all, I would like to start with the position of the BSP for Bulgaria and we definitely do not accept this practice, which has been established in Bulgaria by the government of Boyko Borisov to conclude such consulting contracts. This is perhaps the fifth, sixth, yet another such contract, which is concluded between the World Bank and the Office. It's a vicious practice. We from the BSP for Bulgaria will vote against our proposed agreement. I would like to make a few arguments in the direction of our position, and I would like to start with a flashback. In recent decades, education and science have been heavily underfunded... [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u11	How would education be underfunded?!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u12	And in this way, serious problems and serious problems have accumulated over the years. This, of course, was also dictated by the wrong policies that have been under way, especially in the last ten years by the government of Boyko Borisov, as a result of which, of course, a special Operational Program was programmed and an education for smart growth, in which more than a billion and 600 million were invested to stimulate and reform education in Bulgaria, the educational sector.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u13	In 2015, it was you!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u14	But what did we see? The funds under the Operational Programme were frozen in 2016. Later, a decision by the Council of Ministers scandalously took a decision 102 million from the Operational Program "Science and education for smart growth" which specifically had to be used for research and development of technology were transferred to another operational programme in the Ministry of Economy "Innovation and Competitiveness." That is to say, in the 2014 programming period, the full failure of the governments of Boyko Borisov and the inability to absorb...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u15	Plamen Oresharski.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u16	And, of course, an effective reform of the education system. To this day, we have not yet seen, by the way, a Report on the implementation of the Law on School and Preschool Education, which has been adopted by you, esteemed rulers. And there you yourself, with a decision of the Council of Ministers, have adopted an analysis of the socio-economic development of Bulgaria, in which you clearly say that the educational system has not made much progress. I mean, everything that's at stake as measures...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u17	I apologize, but please enter into the subject of the Agreement. I gave you an opportunity to argue. Get to the point, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u18	I'll get there. Please don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u19	Excuse me, but I have to do by the book.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u20	And it turns out that, in fact, governments have achieved absolutely no result in the education system. And now we come to the Agreement, which must sign the government and specifically the Ministry of Education with the World Bank. By signing this agreement you acknowledge that you cannot deal with the problems of education in Bulgaria. You acknowledge that you are not competent, you cannot solve the problems that exist that are accumulated in the educational system. What is this agreement about? To formulate a strategic framework for the development of education in a long term. Dear Governments, we still have a good system of science in Bulgaria. We have the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, we have 54 higher schools, we have very good teachers in secondary school. And to top it all, we propose to conclude an agreement for more than three million levs to be given to the World Bank to come here some experts and to solve foreign experts who do not know the Bulgarian conditions, do not know the Bulgarian system of education, to solve the problems of Bulgarian education. Well, if this is not a recognition of the failure of the government of Boyko Borisov with the signing of this agreement, I do not see what else can be said. In this way, what will we accomplish? We are giving again some consulting services, as I said, over three million levs and I am now convinced of the result. Zero! We will achieve nothing in this way with such agreements. Why not use the potential of Bulgarian education in Bulgaria is a topic that is national, non-partisan, let us sit down and understand these issues?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u21	Oh, we'll get along! Aha!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u22	We from BSP for Bulgaria have long made our proposals. You can use some of them to solve problems instead of signing an agreement with the World Bank for 3 million. In this way you say the system of secondary and higher education in Bulgaria has no potential, there are no good experts, we do not trust Bulgarian lecturers, Bulgarian researchers and therefore we will use external experts. That's cynical! I dare say that there are still responsible teachers and teachers working in Bulgaria who can handle similar tasks. I call on you: do not accept the proposed agreement between the World Bank and the Ministry of Education and Science! Finally, before I graduate, I will only quote a book by known economist Jeffrey Sacks to all of you, the end of poverty is called. In it he made a very interesting analogy between the economy.. the problems of the economy, and medicine. And he says that in order to solve the problems of the economy, in this case we can say.. of education, we need to know very well the culture, the way people live in the country where they go. This means that there must be plenty of time to explore the conditions to see how the system works in order to offer the right solutions. I'm very sorry, we can't support such an agreement. Thank you. [[Extreme applauses and applauses: "Bravo, bravo!" by BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u23	Thank you, Mr. Tsonkov. Hey, guys, any lines? Any other speeches? Are there any other statements? Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Cinic is sometimes the behavior and attitude towards an extremely important topic of some colleagues. It is cynical at a time when there is an enormous amount of funds for education in Bulgaria, which has never been in the history of Bulgarian education, to stand up and say from this tribune that there is insufficient funding. It is cynical when on 24 May the whole country applauded the Bulgarian teacher for what he did in the time of a pandemic, to stand here and say that in Bulgarian education the result is zero! The result was zero when you ruled the BSP! [[(World applause from GERB. Proclaims: Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]] When they ruled people. [[prolonged shouts "Bravo, bravo!" by "BSP for Bulgaria"]] For which the teachers' protests were sitting. That's cynical! Today, when so much money is given in education, when European programmes are helping and developing the exchange between school, inter-school, interinstitutional, you cannot talk about cynicism in the education system. And it's a shame I'm very strongly saying this even less as part of the system and as a person who is a member of the Education Committee. I regret that never before in our committee and colleagues on this committee, despite their party bias, have they had such behavior. There's one more thing I want to tell you. Should we vote on this agreement? During your government your ministers went to seek exchange in Singapore for our system and to acquire knowledge and skills from them there, and you are opposed to having a wonderful exchange with the help of consultants at the World Bank. Finally, I would like to say that it is purely teacherly in my respect to fellow Members, very often I replicate you when you say school, but for a member of the Education Committee, I ask you very much: Schools. [[(Applause from GERB and shouts: ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. - What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mrs. Zaharieva, first of all, I believe that you interpret Mr. Tsonkov's statement. He did not give an assessment of the Bulgarian education...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u27	You did.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u28	...sent an assessment of the way it is managed. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I have always argued that the Bulgarian education, both secondary and higher, survives in this situation very often despite the management and not because of it. [[(Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria. The line from BSP for Bulgaria:..........................................................................................................]] So, of course, we owe gratitude to both the entire teaching community and all the professors of higher education and all the researchers. This is a consistent time policy, and we have maintained that opinion. Regarding the strategy for which this agreement should be developed with the active assistance of experts from the World Bank, I believe that, firstly, in our country, in the Ministry of Education and Science, no analysis of the implementation of the Strategy, which was adopted in Parliament, for development of education until 2016. But I am not surprised! We are witnessing the lack of any analysis, the lack of any conclusions and on this basis solutions for future actions in the system. In this sense, I would also like to tell you the following: what Mr. Tsonkov said is a fact. After a year, you were forced to submit to the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u29	Your time is up, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u30	... Report on implementation of the objectives and principles of the Law...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u31	Please complete your thought.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u32	...for preschool and school education.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u33	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u34	What are his qualities? This is gonna...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u35	Mrs. Anastasova, please consider it anyway!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u36	...we're commenting on it, I hope, yet. But when we explain some things to you, try to understand the well-meaning of what you are told. Don't look for a political effect, because in the words of...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u37	I've given you enough time, thank you, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u38	...Mr. Tsonkov was concerned about the system.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u39	Please finish!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u40	Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u41	Second line, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u42	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Chairman, I'll be very brief. I won't take up any of the time. Thank you for being tolerant to our colleagues in this case. Dear Mrs. Zaharieva, I will tell you what is cynicism from your speech so I felt provoked. Cynism is that during the emergency situation the Bulgarian teachers paid their Internet at home to teach remotely something that you did not provide. This is a cynicism to talk about how you manage education, and teachers to pay for the Internet to teach Bulgarian children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u43	Thank you. Mr. Stoynev, that's the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u44	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Dear Mrs. Zaharieva, I think it is not right for you to mistake and mix the topics. No one here talks about the role of teachers and Bulgarian education during the epidemiological crisis. This is about an operational programme in which funds were first frozen in 2016! This is about an operational programme in which a special agency was created, because the funds with the famous centres of excellence were a complete failure. We are talking here about an operational programme on which European funds cannot be used. We're talking about an operational program in which you failed! That's the truth. At the same time, from this operational programme we have to give money to the relevant bank to write to us, you see, the 2030 strategies. And here my colleagues want to point out that there is something wrong! What's wrong is that it was this operational program that didn't work. It's no coincidence that you, as I recall, fired the Deputy Minister for this operational program. We show that this failure with your policy will continue. That's what my colleague meant before me. And it doesn't do you any honor to mix the two topics. Thank you! [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u45	Mrs. Zaharieva, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] No, no, it's not hard! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It is not difficult, but I would like to give Mrs. Anastasova's comment, because we have always found a purely professional dialogue with her and we have managed so well to work. And I'm not surprised by her position. She also stated it categorically during the debate in the Commission. Everything else, however, is an exact policy. Everything else is politics...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u47	This is parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u48	...so I allow myself to speak this way about education. Yeah, we should mix it up. Because from secondary education, from higher education, from science, from everything that is being done to achieve innovation, from excellence, all this is education and all this depends on the economy. [[(Replication from the BSP for Bulgaria "Tam" is the failure. "Tam" is the failure.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u49	I know your line of duty. Your line of duty is always a failure. [[Heckling]] Only not in every...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u50	Mr. Stoynev, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u51	...not every mistake, not every time we have to look for failure. We must look for the way to overcome problems, weaknesses, and I believe that this agreement is a step in this direction. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. We continue with the speeches. [[Heckling]] Who?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u53	Dear Mr. Chairman, since I was unable to take a line for a reply, not as an expert in matter, but as a representative of the people from Veliko Tarnovo: Dear Mrs. Zaharieva, you should feel some discomfort when talking about colossal successes and failures of previous governments, because now, as you speak, your colleagues are closing one of the major schoolsá in Gorna Oryahovitsa municipality.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u54	Schools!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u55	Children there are, residents there are, but the school, alas, is closed. I can direct your gaze from educational institutions in small towns to universities in the district..................... to the universities in the district....... take as an example the Svishtov Academy, take for example Veliko Tarnovo University, failure after failure in each unit, at each level, Mrs. Zaharieva. [[Applause and cheering "Bravo, bravo!" by BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u56	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Are there any lines? Statements? Mr. Popov!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u57	Thank you. Dear Mr President, a very brief statement in the form of a question to the importers. Dear importers, how many other Member States of the European Union have such an agreement? Say them by name so we know them! It is obvious that Bulgaria is like this. How many others? How will a strategy for development of education develop without having a strategy for developing the economy - a second question? Aren't they connected? And you don't think they're connected! Why not use the potential of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences in this field an institution with a long history? Or do you still think they're feudal old men? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u58	Thank you, Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I won't. Statements? Are there any other speeches, or should we close the debate? I'm closing the debate, moving on to the vote. I will put to the first vote the Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the Provision of Consulting Services between the Ministry of Education and Science and the Executive Agency "Operational Program "Science and Education for Smart Growth" (Science for Bulgaria), on the one hand, and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, on the other hand, signed on 12 February 2020. Vote 141 MPs: 93 against 39 abstentions 9. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Zaharieva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u59	Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the bill be reviewed at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u60	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Please, voting mode. They voted 141 MPs: 96, against 36, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u61	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Agreement for the provision of consulting services between the Ministry of Education and Science and the Executive Agency of the Ministry of Education and Science, of the one part, and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, of the other part, signed on 12 February 2020. A single member. It ratifies the agreement for the provision of consulting services between the Ministry of Education and Science and the Executive Agency of the Ministry of Education and Science, of the one part, and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, of the other part, signed on 12 February 2020. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal. If you'll allow me, in the name..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u62	Read the text we need to vote on, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u63	This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u64	Thank you. Are there any speeches, colleagues? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. First, I will put to the vote the proposed change in the name of the Law presented to us by Mrs. Zaharieva. They voted 142 MPs: for 101, against 37, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. We voted on the name of the Law. I now put to the vote the content of a single member; the name "Concluding provision'; and the content of a single paragraph as presented. Vote 138 MPs: 100 against 34, abstention 4. The proposals have been accepted. That's how we finished the legislative part. Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions for the period 22 " 28 May 2020' from: - MP Krum Zarkov to Ekaterina Zaharieva - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs on cooperation between Bulgaria and the European Union in the field of judicial reform and the fight against corruption. Answers should be made in plenary on 5 June 2020; - National Representative Dora Yankova to Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works on the National Energy Efficiency Programme for multifamily residential buildings. Answers should be made in plenary on 5 June 2020; - MP Georgi Gokov, Christian Vigenin and Vesela Lecheva to Denitsa Sacheva, Minister of Labour and Social Policy on the policy of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy regarding the Law on Social Services. Answers should be made in plenary on 5 June 2020; Written answers for service by: - Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Stoilov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the MPs Ivan Dimov Ivanov and Desislav Taskov; - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov on a question from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to two questions from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova of two questions from the MPs Nikola Dinkov and Violeta Zheleva; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mariana Nikolova on a question from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on a question from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the MPs Petar Kanev and Ivo Hristov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the MPs Petar Kanev and Ivo Hristov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on two issues from the National Representative Albena Naydenova; - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov on a question from the National Representative Boryana Georgieva; - Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov on a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov on a question from the National Representative Polina Tsankova. Questions from parliamentary control. We begin with Mr. Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance. He will answer a question from the National Representative Rumen Gechev about the organisation of control for the collection of the taxes and fees due to the budget by the State Gambling Commission by the companies in the gambling business. Please, Mr. Gechev, ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u65	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, at my request on 12 March this year, you replied to me in writing on 2 April 2020 that over 693 million outstanding budgetary claims from four companies of Mr. Bozhkov were not collected in the period 2015 - 2019. BGN, including the principal of almost 557 million. lv. and accrued interest above 136 million lv. These are huge losses in the country's budget revenues that have been admitted due to the obvious failure of control by the authorized state authorities, including the State Gambling Commission, the National Revenue Agency, the State and Financial Inspection Agency and, of course, the Ministry of Finance itself under whose wing they are. In this regard, I ask you to answer the questions raised in connection with your response to my questioning: In the period 2015. 2019 when, by whom or by which institution, in what form were checks made, including revisions to the gambling companies, what are the results of the checks; is it true that the companies provided the State Gambling Commission with monthly reports on the fees paid; exactly how they were accepted, verified and kept in due order these reports; information and/or the monthly reports about the fees paid were transmitted to the Ministry of Finance; who, when and in what form had determined the amount of fees paid by the companies of Mr. Bozkov for each of the years 2015. 2019; were these fees identical for all companies of the business in question, or the State Gambling Commission specific, lower, fee paid by the companies of Vasil Bozkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u66	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u67	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! Professor Gechev, you have included a lot of questions in a relatively short statement, but I will try to answer within the parliamentary rules. Reports on the activities of the State Gambling Commission over the years have been published on the Commission's website and are publicly available. The reports shall contain detailed information on the Commission's control activities as well as the number of checks carried out on compliance with the Gambling Act. For the period from January 2015 to December 2019 in the exercise of its powers, the Gambling Commission has carried out checks on compliance with the Gambling Act under the orders of the President of the Commission on an established annual plan, checks on current alerts and complaints, as well as checks on letters of other institutions. For this period the checks are 3137, of which 1727 are under art. 89 of the Gambling Act on an established annual plan for each year and are carried out in sites where activities under the Gambling Act are organized by persons who received a license. 1381 checks were also carried out on alerts, complaints and letters of other institutions, as well as on sites where gambling activities were organised without a Commission licence. The necessary documents have been drawn up for the checks carried out during the period 2015 - 2019 and in cases where a violation of the Gambling Act has been found, acts have been drawn up to establish administrative violations, and for that period they are 378. Among them, 50 acts for establishing public public public claims were issued to gambling organizers and non-payments due within the time limit. In the period 2015 - 2019, 350 penal decrees were drawn up and issued by the President of the Commission. The property penalties imposed for this period amount to 1 million. 411 thousand. lv. For the period 2015 - 2019, the National Revenue Agency within its competence has carried out 812 checks against persons engaged in gambling activities, including 210................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 506 acts for the identification of administrative violations have been made and 254 penal decrees of 190 319 BGN have been issued at the moment. For the same period, 31 revisions were made to gambling organisers, where additionally established commitments amounted to 1 million. 251 thousand. BGN 314. Regarding your second question. As of 1 January 2014, with amendments to the Commission's Gambling Act entered into force, it has been imposed to administer state fees under the Law, as in art. 30 the fees to be paid by all gaming organisers are regulated. In this regard, according to art. 30, para. 6 of the Gambling Act, the gaming organizers paying fees shall submit for each month to the Commission by the 15th of the following month a declaration declaring the fees due and submitting them to the Commission's bank account within the time limit for the submission of the required declaration. The President of the Commission has sent reports to the Minister of Finance containing reports on the activity and implementation of the Commission's budget on a cash-based basis from February 2015 to January 2018, including the total amount of State fees collected, the annual contributions collected by the gambling organisers with a view to complying with the measures for responsible gambling, as well as the fines collected, property penalties and interest. The information takes into account an increasing revenue on an annual basis for the period 2015 - 2019 and is as follows: the increase in revenue from state fees in 2016 compared to 2015 is by 32,41% and is approximately 30 million; the increase in revenue from state fees in 2017 compared to 2016 is 10,81% and is approximately 13,5 million; the increase in revenue from fees in 2018 compared to 2017 is by 13,72% and is approximately 19 million; the increase in revenue from fees in 2019 compared to 2018 is by 8,54% and is approximately 13,5 million. With regard to your third question: on the basis of art. 22, para. 1, t. 15 as well as Art. Art. 25, para 1, art. Art. 32, Art. 33 para. 9 of the Gambling Act with a series of decisions between 2015 and 2019. The Commission has confirmed the rules presented by the organizers, in which they were announced as missionaries. It should be borne in mind that the validation of the Rules on Organized Gambling is intended to detail the provisions of all regulations governing gambling activities. The provision of the Rules should specify and specify the legal framework but cannot contradict it or regulate in a different way public relations already governed by law. The preparation and reference of rules contrary to the law cannot serve as a basis for payment of a State fee of less than the statutory amount. The established Rules in this part are null and void, as they are contrary to the law and as such do not give rise to legal consequences. In the light of the above, and on the basis of art. 92, para. 3 sentence 2 of the Gambling Act in connection with art. 166, para. 1 of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code for unpaid state fees under art. 30, para. 3 of the Gambling and Interests Act were issued eight acts for establishment of public government claims by the Chairman of the State Gambling Commission of the following organizers: The total amount of public liabilities established under those eight acts amounts to 693 million. 109,000. BGN 261,66 of which 556 million 872,000. BGN 282,97 This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled 236 thousand. BGN 978.69. interest rates. With regard to the powers of the Minister of Finance relating to the Commission's activities, I answered you in detail at the end of February when you asked the same question again and, if necessary, I am ready in writing and in oral form from the stands to review the legislation in force. In conclusion, as a summary, a substantial infringement by the Gambling Commission has actually been committed, which is currently being investigated by the law enforcement authorities whether it is a crime or not, but with the validation of unlawful rules, favourable treatment has been granted in respect of the imposition and payment of fees by several gambling operators, allowing the amount indicated in my statement not to be paid.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u68	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u69	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleague Goranov, from your answers we understand that we, as a country, are in a great tragedy. You report here, pay attention to 3137 inspections. Thousands of checks! Of what? The kindergartens in the village of Lyulace and others? Your boss, appointed by you, the Agency for State and Financial Inspection, has not had a single inspection in five years. He's been in charge of gambling for three and a half years, he's obviously forbidden to do checks there! What's the point of 4,000 checks, I ask? You report here that under $3 million is revenue! Mr. Goranov, these control bodies can't raise their salaries! Look, you said there wasn't a $3 million, $2 million or anything. What about their annual budget? I think that's a felony! And now the main question I want you to answer. Look, there is no escape from the answer to the following question: or you have personally appointed yourself to the Gambling Commission, you sign for five people, the Commission chief is your own choice, the representative of the NRA is your choice. You are the head of the NRA Management Board, the key agency, the others you sign them. Either they're ladybugs, or they don't know where they are intoxicating for five years, or they hold the umbrella and steal that 700 million!? Tell me! Are they incompetent, or are they stealing with thieves? That's the question, there's no other answer. However, I doubt that you are incompetent, since 11 years there stood appointed by you a Mr. Vasil Panov. Mr. Panov is Director of the Directorate of the National Revenue Agency. Is he a ladybug? The director of four directorates has been there for 11 years, he's quieting down, he hasn't seen how some 700 million are gone and that the law is not applicable!? How does this work? I would like to ask you a second question here, too, if there is a crime or not, there must now be entire teams to call these people and investigate them, but I ask you: what is this guy still doing in the NRA if he is incompetent? Why didn't you fire him? If yours comes, for example, who cleans your apartment and steals you, what will you do, increase his salary? What are these civil servants doing at the state nursery? I ask and answer: why didn't you fire this man immediately, why do you keep him there?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u70	Thank you, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u71	Well, here with $700 million gone, and you're keeping it under NRA control...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u72	Don't fight with the Minister, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u73	I'm graduating. No, I'm not fighting, I'm outraged because there's no way a minister can answer that. He slept $700 million, and you keep him there in the NRA in the most important position!?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u74	Thank you, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u75	I'm just speechless! So, go home and take care of it. That's the least you can do. [[Replications between the MPs Spas Gurnevski from GERB and Alexander Paunov from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u76	A hole? You won't use it. Let's move on. Please, Mr. Pawnov! You're sitting in the wrong place. I understand. Stay calm. We continue with a question to Mrs. Desislava Taneva, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests, who will answer a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova about increasing the cases of Q fever. Mrs. Sidorova, please ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u77	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Minister! For years on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria there have been cases of coccillosis or pu fever, as is the popular name of this disease. It affects both human and ruminants and domestic animals. The Q fever is a zoonosis with global prevalence and important health and economic importance. The Q fever is included in the arsenal of biological weapons, there is a wide range of clinical manifestation. In recent years, we have noticed an increase in the number of people who have become ill. As you well remember, only a month ago in Gabrovo was found a rather large outbreak of puppy fever. The damage caused by the disease is enormous for both farmers and veterinarians and people who are close to animals. As with any infectious disease, prevention is most important, of course, to avoid the consumption of raw milk, as well as other animal products without heat treatment. In Bulgaria there is a registered vaccine against the disease, but it is placed on the animals at the expense of farmers. This costs a lot of farmers' production and is a great expense for them. Vaccine prophylaxis is mainly used in the most risky regions and in the most risky groups. In this regard, my question to you is: what measures will be taken to limit the spread of puppy fever in the country; will the country finance animal vaccination, especially in the regions where outbreaks are detected, to avoid infection and damage to farmers?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Sidorova. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u79	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Sidorova! First of all, in connection with your statement, for increasing the cases of Q fever to say that statistics speak exactly the opposite. Let me give you some data. In recent years, there has been virtually a decline in the positive cases, 2017 is 28.09 per cent prevalence. These are the positive cases found at a certain time in the surveillance programme that we have. In 2018, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man ==References====External That's the official stats. Yeah, the Q-fever disease is zoonosis. On the basis of the assessment and the criteria, it is categorized in the category "E' for which supervision is only necessary within the Union. Bulgaria is fulfilling its obligation. The programme for the surveillance and control of pu fever disease in Bulgaria includes several events, including laboratory tests. Of course, I can say them in detail, but I have to limit myself in time. Laboratory samples of cattle and minor ruminants shall be taken by registered veterinarians or official veterinarians according to the established plan and the Monitoring and Prevention Programme, you know, shall be adopted by the Council of Ministers and accepted by the Council of Ministers for three years in February 2019. This is the As part of the prevention of the disease, it is true that vaccination may also be given. There is one approved pu fever vaccine in the country and it is used for active immunisation of uninfected herds. The vaccination shall be carried out by veterinarians serving establishments, with the cost of purchasing and placing the vaccine at the expense of animal owners. According to the statistics I told you, there is virtually no data available at the moment based on a comparative analysis with other established diseases to enter this vaccination as compulsory and to be borne by the budget for farmers. This is part, I would say, of the difficult everyday life of Bulgarian livestock and this is not the only disease whose opportunity for vaccination is not included in those which the state is taking. I can also give the Plan prepared by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency for sampling in endemic areas. This is by districts in Bulgaria. The total number per year to be taken is 910. At present, the implementation is 30% of the 2020 Plan and positive are established in three areas: one is Gabrovo, 22 cases. In recent years, as at the beginning I started, we have practically a permanent decline in the identified cases of puppy fever in Bulgaria. There are prescriptions in the established cases by veterinarians and farmers know what to do, they are given a prescription. Of course, at their discretion, they can also carry out vaccination. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. The line, Mrs. Sidorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u81	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! From your answer I realized that farmers are basically left to deal with as they decide and to fight this disease themselves. What I asked you and what I didn't get an answer to is: how will the state support them? Moreover, you know that, along with the CIVID-19 pandemic, farming was also one of the sectors that was seriously affected. What I asked and again received no answer is: will the vaccine be paid by the country in the outbreaks of COVID-19? You yourself said that these are three areas in the country. I guess this won't be a big expense for the Ministry and the state, and it can take the vaccination, thereby trying to reduce it completely. I am very happy that at the moment it reduces the incidence of pu fever, but as you yourself said a month ago, 22 cases were registered in Gabrovo. That doesn't look like a reduction in morbidity to me. I hope that the Ministry of Agriculture will reconsider its policy and take over at least in the areas where there are cases of this disease, vaccination and thus provide really active help to farmers. Because, you said it yourself, the difficult everyday life of Bulgarian agriculture let us try to make it easier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u82	Thank you. We continue with the next question to Minister Taneva. He is from the National Representative Polina Tsankova on cases of reported mass mortality of bee families in Pleven region. You have the floor, Mrs. Tsankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madam Minister, Mr Minister! Beekeepers from Pleven district are very concerned about cases of established mass mortality of bee families due to uncontrolled treatment of crops with plant protection preparations. At the beginning of May this year, between 15 and 20 thousand bee families died in the district, the most injured were in the area of the villages of Milkovitsa, the municipality of Gulyantsi, and Petokladentsi, the municipality of Belene. I also draw attention to the fact that 102 complaints and signals of non-compliance with the measures for the protection of bees in the conduct of plant protection events have been submitted throughout 2019 and the most common infringements are related to non-compliance with the notification procedure for bee family owners located in the border lands when using plant protection preparations. The destruction of bee families is worrying, as this will not only result in people's livelihoods being lost, but also a disruption of ecological balance in affected areas and will inevitably affect the processes of natural pollination of crops and reduce their yield. In this regard, I ask you to answer the following questions: Has an inspection been carried out on the case of the fallen bee families in Pleven District at the beginning of May this year? Have cases of uncontrolled and uncontrolled treatment with plant protection preparations for crops that are hazardous to the health of bee families have been identified? Has a notification been given by farmers who have carried out the spray in the affected areas and have beekeepers been informed of these plantation treatment activities in time? If, following the completion of the verification of the case, infringements are detected in treatment with plant protection preparations and it is found that this is the reason, are you considering changes to the Plant Protection Act, the Beekeeping Act and Regulation No 13 of 2016 on measures for the protection of bees and bee families, and in particular sprays to be carried out only in the dark part of the day, thus reducing the risk of poisoning bee families to a minimum? And last question: is there, according to the experts from your ministry and other possible causes for the extinction of bees? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u84	Thank you. You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u85	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mrs. Hristova, Dear Members of Parliament! Mr. Chairman, first of all, I would like to ask you to take the time for my subsequent answer so that I can answer very thoroughly the question asked by the MP Polina Christova. Yes, Mrs. Hristova, two checks were carried out on the six signals received in the Regional Directorate of Agriculture and Agriculture "Pleven" related to the protection of bees and bees from poisoning. On one of the alerts, the complaint was withdrawn the next day by the complainant. Complaints concern 14 beekeepers with 1994 bee families. A second check was also appointed by me in relation to the results of the first complaint check and in relation to the establishment of the general health status of the bee population in the area. During the checks by all the committees, the applicants' beehive families were found to be submersible between 30 and 70%, taking five samples of the vegetation of the areas treated by the farmers and the applicants' complaints, hence the cause of the bee's submersibles and five samples of bee logs for analysis in accredited laboratories. The plant sample shall be examined at the expense of the State and the bee sample examined by the applicant. The checks have found that notifications have been made to all settlements in the areas where treatments have been made in accordance with the requirements of Regulation No 13. That is, the first requirement has been met by all farmers who are subject to the verification of these five signals after all. In addition, given the recurring situation in Pleven District, where six complaints were filed in 2019 from 11 beekeeper owners, as I told you, I ordered a timely check to establish the general health status of the bee population and to clarify the circumstances and possible causes of the death of bee families in the four municipalities of Gulyantsi, Nikopol, Levski and Belene, from which were reported poisonous ones. 13 bees with 951 bee families and 43 extracts were checked on this inspection. In order to establish the likelihood that mortality was caused by diseases, six samples of bees located next to the affected sites were taken for laboratory testing for the presence of diseases. The results of the laboratory tests were a fact in five of them, i.e. five out of six samples, found the cause of nozematosis bee disease. About the complaints filed. After the complaints carried out, the report shall be drawn up by the committees, the results of which shall be: In the village of Petokladentsi, the municipality of Belene, a sample of bees was found in significant quantities of active substances of preparations that are not plant protection products. The same is contained in biocidal products used to combat insects, such as flies, mosquitoes, cockroaches, fleas, ants, ticks and creeping insects, including allowed for use in everyday life. No residues of pesticides were found in the plant sample. The sample of treated vegetation is taken from another land other than the land in which the apiary is situated, at the insistence of the owner of the establishment and complainant. So we don't have a match here for the active substances in both of these samples from the bees' submersibles. Two samples of two bees were taken in the village of Milkovitsa, municipality of Gulyantsi. In the first apiary in the sample of bees, the presence of coumaphos contained in veterinary medicinal products and the presence of an active substance clothianidin, which is an insecticide of the neonicotinoids group not authorised for use in plant protection products, but authorised for use in biocidal products for the control of ants, flies and creeping insects, was detected in the first apiary in the sample of bees. In a plant sample taken from the same site where the apiary is located, the active substance thiamethoxam, which is an insecticide of the neonicotinoids group, which is not authorised for use, but both active substances in both samples................................................................... In the second apiary, in the sample of bees, coumaphos was detected and in the plant a herbicide contained in a plant protection product authorised for application to maize for control of perennial weeds was found and again there was no coincidence of the active substances. The next complaint from the village of Dragash voyvoda, Nikopol Municipality, is a common complaint from four complainants. One aggregate sample of four bees was taken for the presence of insecticides,fungins and pesticide prohibited for use. The result of the analysis of the sample of weed vegetation shows the presence of insecticides from the neonicotinoids group not authorised for use, as well as a herbicide authorised for application to corn for control of perennial weeds. As soon as culture has developed, plant samples will be taken to verify the presence of this active substance thiamethoxam in the culture itself in order to prove indisputably the use of unauthorised insecticide. In the village of Stezherovo, village of Bozhurluk, municipality of Levski, village of Petokladentsi and village of Tatari, municipality of Belene, was taken a aggregate sample on the basis of a general complaint by seven beekeepers. In the sample, an insecticide from the neonicotinoids group, not authorised for use, was found. An insecticide of the neonicotinoids group, a herbicide authorised for application to maize, and a growth regulator, was found in a field of weeded vegetation taken in a field with seeded maize specified by the applicants. A sample of the maize stored at a warehouse in Veliko Tarnovo, which is used for sowing, has been taken in relation to the signals for the sea of bees. The test result of the sample is expected within a few days. The aim is to determine whether maize seeds are treated before sowing and with what products. Violators who do not comply with the provisions of the current regulatory framework shall be subject to different sanctions in nature depending on the infringement. In summation. In view of the many information, it is practically taken from laboratory analyses, from five complaints that have been sampled..................... and bee, we have coincidences of the active substances in only one of them, where it will be investigated, of course. The most likely cause is the exact treatment notified within the relevant time limit. Where there are found residues of neonicotinoids as active substances that are prohibited, all fines under current legislation will be imposed. Since I have seen that I have long overdue the time, I will not issue the fines, but they are different, and the highest goes to 10,000. lv. I assure you that with all the strictness of the Law everything that has been proven with the relevant analyses will be done. Also with regard to these complaints and the samples taken by bee families, where there is practically a submersible, we will also take samples to establish the general health condition......................................................................................... Since this disease is found in the bee populations in the same lands, will we find one in the applicants', in order to very accurately identify the cause of this subseason. Another detail that I can also report: the case in these lands is second to even the same applicants. Last year, some of them were beneficiaries for this sub-marine and de minimis received funds between 10 and 17 thousand. lv. right about the death that it was again. These nozematosis samples are expected to come out on Tuesday, but these are practically the results. For all farmers who manage agricultural areas and are in breach of the legislation in the case of sprays, either for notification or for the use of unauthorised preparations, and penalties are currently being applied. I can say that for last year over 1000 farmers have been sanctioned by the subsidies received by them in the amount of more than two million levs. This is the information on the case according to all the lab analyses.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u86	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Line, Mrs. Tsankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Madam Minister, for the detailed and comprehensive answer. I believe that an action plan against bee mortality and a population conservation and recovery plan is needed. I think you and your ministry can handle this. I'll probably have more questions on the subject that I'll ask under further control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Tsankova. A hole, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u89	Dear Mrs. Hristova, I would like to assure you that we are taking all necessary measures both in terms of sanctioning offenders and in terms of improving the regulatory base. The regulation that regulates sprays is still in the process of public consultation. We have really turned to science for help in all the texts and ways of settling these public relations to ensure the health of bee families and the development of agriculture. I would just like to say that the entire laboratory examination, including when they finish final, together with those we will take, will be uploaded to the website of the Food Agency and the Regional Directorate for Agriculture and Agriculture, Pleven, for the purpose of publicity and all interested in the case, to be able to refer to all documents made in the course of the inspection.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u90	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We continue with the Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov. He will answer a question from MP Smilyana Nieva about increased domestic crime in Haskovo region. You have the floor to ask the question, Ms. Niva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u91	Dear Minister, on 10 May this year in the village of Branitsa, the municipality of Harmanli, an elderly man was brutally beaten and robbed. The perpetrator has been captured, but this citizen has been beaten and robbed three times by criminals. In connection with this case, the chief prosecutor said there were real concerns about increasing domestic crime in the region. In a TV show the following day, on the morning block of bTV, Chief Commissioner Angel Tsankov, who is director of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior in Haskovo, said the region is under full police supervision and 57 police actions have been implemented. In this regard, my question is this: have you registered such an increase in domestic crimes in Haskovo region? What measures are being taken by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior? What are the results of the shares held on the territory of the district? And is it preemptive with the contingent in the region?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u92	Thank you, Ms. Niva. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u93	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Niva, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As I have repeatedly stressed so far, fighting domestic crime is a top priority in the work of the Ministry of Interior. Joint police operations and the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria are held daily to counter this type of crime, while the protection of the life and property of the Bulgarian citizens is a major task in the activities of the Ministry of Interior. I assure you that what has been done by police and prosecutors has already produced results throughout the country, including in your constituency, the Haskovo region. For the period from January to 20 May 2020, this is the date of your question, compared with the same period of last year the crimes committed on the territory of the Ministry of Interior Regional Directorate Haskovo, are reduced by 10 percent. At the same time, the detection of these crimes by 9% has been increased from 36% in 2019 to 45% in this year. In settlements without a permanent police presence, the detection rate of crimes is also increased by 16 percent. By 143 the number reduces the crimes against property, with six robberies reported from January to May 20, 2020, five of which have already been discovered. By comparison, 10 robberies were committed during the same period last year, of which three were discovered. As for the particular case in Branica, as you pointed out, the perpetrator of the beating of the elderly inhabitant of the village has been detained. He is also a local resident at the age of 35, with a permanent measure imposed on him. The person is also being investigated for two more pre-trial proceedings for the theft and break-in of a foreign residence in the same village. The effective counteraction and reduction of domestic crime in Haskovo region is the result of the measures taken in a timely manner by the Ministry of Interior and the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria and those carried out since the beginning of the year more than 300 specialized police operations in different fields of activity. Every month at every police station in the Directorate's territory, at least one specialized operation is conducted on the basis of domestic crime. More than 101,000 persons and more than 56 thousand motor vehicles have been checked in the course of operations since the beginning of the year and 96 police files and 272 rapid and pre-trial proceedings have been formed. An additional serious reduction in domestic crime across the country was found and reported in the analyses and data of the Ministry of Interior in terms of the security environment following the introduction of the emergency situation and social isolation measures in relation to the CoVID-19 epidemic. Only in the first month of the introduction of the measures on 13 March the crimes committed against the property of citizens decreased by more than 30 percent. In this context and based on the analysis of the security environment after the end of the emergency situation and the management of the Ministry of Interior and the management of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria warned about the risk of increasing domestic crime throughout the country, because we believe that this would objectively happen if we did not take the appropriate action, as you see the growth of reduction during the state of emergency. In order to prevent and counter the measures taken to prevent a serious increase in this type of crime, it is precisely these specialized police operations and work under the supervision of the prosecution by persons who form the operational situation in these settlements. Joint operations are renewed with the Prosecutor's Office to counter domestic crime with the intensity prior to the introduction of the emergency situation, as during the emergency situation the police were engaged in the urgent and priority tasks related to combating the pandemic. In the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior, including the one in Haskovo, is established an organization for visiting and receiving citizens in small settlements without constant police presence. Mobile teams have been set up, they have been operating for two years, which receive signals of public order violations, crimes and violation of the Road Traffic Act, as well as signals that require action by other institutions, respectively, to be forwarded to the competent institutions. In conclusion, and specifically for this locality, I would like to say that in terms of the perpetrator and his criminal activities, colleagues worked. As I said, there are two more pre-trial proceedings against him that are underway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u94	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Line, Ms. Niva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u95	Dear Minister, thank you for the statistics you have presented for the crimes comparable to the period from last year and this year until the beginning of the emergency situation, but my question is related to this: being in this situation and expected dropping of some of the preventive measures, what measures are being taken and is working with the criminal contingent in the region in order to reduce domestic crime?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u96	Thank you, Ms. Niva. A hole, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u97	Excuse me, I add: based on the concerns cited by the Attorney General.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u98	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Niva, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As I said in the reply, we are restarting the intensity of operations from before the state of emergency. I took note and said that it was working specifically with people who formed the operational environment in every single settlement. In order to be more precise, these are persons who have pre-trial proceedings pending or are subject to a measure outside this This, of course, happens under the supervision of the Attorney General and the competent district prosecutors. The analysis and analysis were carried out precisely those individuals who are subject to the system of the Ministry of Interior. In many settlements, there are cases where the relevant measures imposed "home arrest", "subscription" and "money guarantee" are due to proven and other criminal activity and violation of these measures, the same persons have passed into custody and have a permanent measure "retention", which does not in fact enable them to commit other crimes. During the state of emergency, we have an increase in only one indicator of crimes committed, these are common crimes, and they are mainly related to violations of quarantine measures. You know, sanctions have been put in place for those who violate quarantine. Indeed, there, thanks to the active activity of colleagues, we have an increase in such crimes, but they are linked to the protection of public health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u99	Thank you, dear Mr. Marinov. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to the answers of Krasen Kralev, Minister of Youth and Sports. A question from the National Representative Nikola Dinkov on financial assistance from the Ministry of Youth and Sports through the Bulgarian Football Union of the Teams of the Third amateur league of the Republic of Bulgaria. You have the floor to develop your question, Mr. Dinkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u100	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers, Dear Members of the National Assembly! The third league of amateur football in Bulgaria is composed of four groups: Northwestern, Northeast, Southwestern and Southeastern. There are 63 teams in the championships. Almost all clubs are either municipal or supported by the budgets of the respective municipalities they represent. As a result of the declared state of emergency in the country because of the COVID-19 pandemic and its consequences, the municipalities' own revenues will be much smaller than those laid down in municipal budgets and the aid for these clubs will decline significantly, and in some places it may not be available at all this year. There is a high probability that many clubs will not start participating in the 2020 championship in the autumn 2021. In addition, when we talk about Bulgarian football and the pyramid, the basis of this pyramid are the clubs in the Third League and the junior schools that function towards them. Over 10,000 children are involved in the junior and junior schools of the Third League teams. Naturally, the help for them must be both timely and sufficient to enable them to function. In this regard is also my question to you: what measures will the government take, respectively the Ministry of Youth and Sports, to provide financial assistance to these teams through the Bulgarian Football Union or directly to the men's teams, as well as to children's and youth schools?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u101	Thank you, Mr. Dinkov. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u102	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dinkov, according to art. 128 of the Law on Physical Education and Sports by means of the budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sports can be supported financially sports clubs which are associations registered for public use activities and members of licensed sports organizations. The Ministry of Youth and Sport supports sports organisations financially, including football clubs on a project basis. According to the regulations, they must apply with projects to finance sports activities confirmed by programmes by the Minister for Youth and Sports. The financial resources available to the Ministry of Youth and Sport for the financing of these programmes are validated by the State Budget Act. Children's Sports for Children's Sports for Children's Leisure, Children's &amp; Sports for Children's Sports for Children's Sports at Risk and Sports for Children's Sports at Risk. The right to apply has all sports clubs, members of licensed sports federations meeting the requirements of the programs, and there are no restrictions and different requirements for football clubs. Candidates for financial support shall be in accordance with art. 128, para. 1 of the Law on Physical Education and Sports, not to be subject to compulsory public obligations to the State and not to outstanding obligations to the Ministry of Youth and Sport under contracts whose term has expired. For the last five years, from 2016 to 2020, including these programmes from 69 projects submitted to football clubs were funded 25 projects. Eight projects of football clubs for 2020 are under consideration. The Ministry of Youth and Sport continues to implement these programs and football clubs and other clubs can apply for funding in the coming years. The financial support of a sports club on a project basis depends on the availability of activity and interest of sports organizations, as well as their compliance with the requirements and opportunities for realization of activities and projects. The Ministry of Youth and Sports administers two national programmes for the youth and the National Program for the Youth 2016 - 2020 and the National Program for the Implementation of Youth Activities under art. 10a of the Gambling Act. Within the two programmes, the application of sports clubs for the implementation of youth activities is acceptable, subject to the requirements of the said provisions of art. 5 of Ordinance No 5 of 11 August 2016 on the terms and conditions for financial support for projects under national youth programmes. According to procedures open to apply for both programmes in 2020, no football sports clubs applied. Annually by the Ministry of Youth and Sports under the program "Development of Children's Football" the Bulgarian Football Union supports around 500 football teams for children aged 7 to 12 years by organizing tournaments and providing football equipment. Currently, the Ministry of Youth and Sports cannot finance clubs through the Bulgarian Football Union, given the finding of a final check of the Bulgarian Football Union, according to which the Bulgarian Football Union must restore 144 thousand. BGN 510,99. of the State for inadequate spending of funds under two programmes and a contract with the Ministry of Youth and Sports. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u103	Thank you, dear Minister! You have the floor for a line, Mr. Dinkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u104	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! What you are saying, Minister, regarding the financing of a project principle under the various programmes, is true, but this was also a fact in the past years when clubs meet certain conditions, they can apply. But we were in a state of emergency. In the discussion of the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, as well as in the discussion and adoption of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Health Act, the Bulgarian Socialist Party proposed that additional 420 million be allocated to municipalities to compensate for the shortfall in the formation of their budgets and in the implementation of their own revenues. According to data from the National Association of Municipalities of the Republic of Bulgaria in different municipalities from 25 to 46% is the failure of own revenues in these budgets. This question was clear at the time when we discussed the Law on Measures and Actions during the state of emergency, as well as the amendment of the Law on Health. I think the Ministry of Youth and Sports could have put forward proposals to help Bulgarian football in these small settlements that have teams to participate in the amateur Third League. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u105	Thank you, dear Mr. Dinkov. Mr. Minister, would you like a duplicate? No. Thank you, Mr. Kralev, for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to the questions to the Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov. First, a question by the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and Lyubomir Bonev about the financial policy of the Ministry of Environment and Water regarding investment and non-investment projects of municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u106	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! The current question is dictated by meetings with mayors of municipalities who, on one or another, are beneficiaries of the Ministry of Environment and Water, both under Operational Programme "Environment" and by the funds that the Ministry distributes from funds allocated from the state budget. Unfortunately, the last few days and months the Ministry has become unpleasantly known for its practices, unfortunately, we have seen the Minister and the Deputy Minister was picked up yesterday. In us there is one doubt whether this allocation of funds for municipalities does not go along in the same order. Don't let the Ministry stay permanently known for, say, an organization inside in an extremely wrong direction. With my colleague, we would like to understand what is the financial policy of the Ministry of Environment and Water with regard to investment and non-investment projects of municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The Operational Program clearly has certain criteria. We are more interested in those that are given for landfills, for plumbing, for sewers, through the PUDOS and so on. How do you control this process and ultimately whether all the needs of municipalities are satisfied in the way that citizens and residents of these municipalities should feel the care of the state towards them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u107	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Dimitrov, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ivanov, dear Mr. Bonev! All the needs of society in mature socialism or communism would satisfy them, but failed. I suppose you don't expect me to be able to meet all the needs. In terms of what the Ministry has been doing, it has inherited practices for years, many of them are good. The clean environment practices introduced by Mr. Chakarov, 17 years work well for 474 sites each year. Everyone who's won is happy. Everyone who hasn't won says it's unfair. Next year they're lining up again. When they win, they keep quiet for the previous year. It is such a good practice that I think next year on the Clean Environment project we should spend a little more money so that even more people and municipalities can participate. But there will still be dissatisfied. I'm sure if it's 500, the 501 will ask someone to ask a question: why didn't I qualify? And there's something wrong here. With regard to the projects of Operational Programme "Environment" there are also adopted rules by the European Union. If you think we can influence or change them, I think it's a pretty ambitious program. I wouldn't hire myself. We work under their rules, we follow all their instructions. We have several degrees and forms of control. By the way, we release very large amounts, I will now read and the Report, of course, long, detailed, will give it to you and you to have it. When we give money [[turns to MP Ivan Valentinov Ivanov]] Here are your constituents from the city of Shumen, 120 million. No one said that under the Operational Program the Minister of Environment and Water as head of the Programme gave them, but you talk about other things. When you master them, however, and it turns out that something has not been properly used and we need to impose a charge... 5, 7, 9, 10.. 15%, then you will all jump and say: but how can you, why do you impose sanctions on us, we rely so much on this money?! And we, as well as when we give them, and when there has to be a penalty, apply the rules of the European Union. To put into question inherited practices for years, which, under a number of governments and ministerial councils, have acted well, I think it is wrong, and also to question the rules that the European Union has imposed on us. Get to the point. In response to your question regarding the financial policy of the Ministry of Environment and Water with regard to investment and non-investment projects of municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, I would like to inform you the following: to date the Ministry of Environment and Water is financing municipalities through Operational Programme The environmental management undertaking POSOS and the financial mechanism of the European Economic Area as follows: Operational Programme Priority Axis 1: Lead. In order to achieve compliance with Directive 91271, Directive 9883 of the European Community and Directive 21351 Eurocom and Directive 2060 are invested in the construction of water infrastructure in agglomerations with more than 10 000 inhabitants equivalents. Four procedures worth 758 million have been announced. 127,000. BGN 959 aimed at municipalities. 18 projects totaling 610 million were agreed. 654 thousand. BGN 426. Priority Axis 2: Waste. In order to comply with the waste management hierarchy under Directive 2008/98 and with the objectives laid down in national legislation, measures to improve municipal waste management shall be invested. Eight procedures worth 657 million have been announced. 193,000. 283 BGN, aimed at municipalities. 58 projects totaling 502 million were agreed. 972,000. BGN 728. Priority Axis 3: In order to achieve compliance with Directive 9243, Directive 2009/147 and the Biodiversity Strategy in the European Union, Objective 1 and 2 measures and activities under the National Priority Framework for Action in the Natura 2000 Network shall be invested. 10 procedures worth 27 million have been announced. 632,000. BGN 223. with eligible applicants, municipalities. A project worth 186 thousand is also agreed. £644. Priority Axis 4: Prevention and risk management of floods and landslides. In fulfilling the country's commitment to the requirements of Directive 2007/60 funds are invested for: measures to prevent and manage the risk of landslides and flood risk management. Two 85 million procedures have been announced. 519 thousand. BGN 199. with eligible applicants, municipalities. Nine projects totaling 22 million were agreed. 593 thousand. BGN 458. Priority Axis 5: Improving air quality. Regarding the quality of the air, funds are invested for: review and analysis of municipal programmes for the quality of the air; support to the competent authorities in the preparation, respectively the processing, implementation and control of municipal programmes; measures to reduce the amount of fine particulate matter and nitrogen oxides from the main sources of pollution. Four procedures worth 614 million have been announced. 822,000. 102 BGN, aimed at municipalities. 37 sites totaling 614 million were also agreed. 221 thousand. BGN 396. To date, the Operational Programme "Environment" financed 123 investment projects worth 1 billion. 750 million. 628 thousand. lv. And so on. The environmental management enterprises are established by art. 60 of the Environmental Protection Act with state enterprise status within the meaning of art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Law. The company funds free of charge environmental projects and activities of municipalities... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Sorry, I'm done.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u109	Finish your sentence anyway, I gave you one minute, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u110	I'll be very brief. ... in the waste management sector and in the water management sector, and in the water management sector, limiting biodiversity losses and preserving natural ecosystems. I'll give you the answer in writing so you have it in you. [[Mister Emil Dimitrov addressed the MP Ivan Valentinov.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u111	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for two supplementary questions within two minutes. Here you go, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! First of all, Minister, it's 2020 for your information. For the first time you spoke plurally, we, which is good. What we have learned from you is that municipalities do not cope with the application and preparation of projects at least that is what we understand. As you mentioned, there are satisfied and dissatisfied municipalities, i.e. in the framework of this dissatisfied municipalities are not doing well, the satisfied seem to be doing well. The other thing I would like to pay attention to before I ask the two supplementary questions is the absorption of the funds under the two European programmes. I've just done an online check at ISUN, it's available to all the environment 29.31%. The other program is 56.4%. This is the real data at the present time of asking. Mr. Minister, there are strange criteria for the PUDO when assessing the projects that you may be able to tell us in the next answer. I will return to the question of asking: how is it that some municipalities do not receive and other municipalities receive funds? Here I am referring entirely to the PUDOS, for the European programmes it is clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u113	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Your question included the answer. Firstly, all these funds have been won for years by the ministers before me who led the office. Operational programme "Environment" which has held competitions and which we are currently continuing on the move. Some of them started last year, some this year, some next year. Some of the projects, as you say, to municipalities, we start them, and then it turns out that they slow down with public procurement, with procedures, with appeals, have problems in the projects themselves. Well, if it's a surprise to you that it's 2020 for me, it isn't! If it is surprising to you that a minister, whenever he has entered, inherits everything he has done before him, and enables it to continue, it is not for me! The whole merit that is on these projects, starting from a clean environment and ending up with the Operational Programme "Environment" to which we have serious commitments, is a result of the efforts of all the Directorates in all the years until now, since the Programme is in operation. My merit is the least. In my day, there were three or four contracts that had already been drawn up and approved. What's the problem? The way everyone can't win the lottery, so everyone can't prepare their objects. All those who have won have no problem, but all those who have not, claim that the problems are beyond them, even those who win and start objects, then it turns out they can't finish them. And now it's like this: you gave so many municipalities projects, and why couldn't they fulfill them?! Maybe it's not us! We've already given the money. If we give the money to the city of Pernik, 105 million with its own funding, and 120 million with Shumen, because you are from these electoral districts, but you fail to absorb the money, I guess I should blame you again! But if you take them in an improper way, we must impose sanctions and I must be guilty again, but then you will say: why is the other municipality 5% and me 7? The fact is that municipalities draw up projects, the fact is that legislation is also changing and a project has already been drawn up has to undergo changes, the fact is that the European Union is changing the rules. Either way, there are municipalities that draw up, qualify, succeed. Maybe you want us to ban them and give the others the unacquainted?! I think it wouldn't be right, they have made an effort. There are municipalities that have won projects and still fail to reach the relevant deadlines. That's why I said in an earlier period: we have a critical date and everyone who won objects if they don't start by that date, I know they won't be done by the end of the year. At the end of the year, however, unused money goes to the European Union. I do not want to lose money from the European Union after ministers before me have fought for this money and managed to bring them to Bulgaria, to protect them as a programme. So from now on, as strange as it may seem, there will be municipalities that manage to prepare their projects and who fail. Diversity whole! Throughout the country, there are such sites that have won the sites, but for different kinds of reasons some of them objective, other subjective, fail to complete them in time and lose the money. And municipalities that commit certain abuses or non-verification of their costs and which suffer sanctions. This thing will continue no matter what the minister's name is and which political power will have government in the state at the moment. These are common rules. The dissatisfied will always be dissatisfied, the satisfied will always be looking to master the money at maximum. But we cannot question this administrative capacity, which is trying, first, to bring them to Bulgaria, to provide them, then to ensure the redistribution, then to give them to other ministries and subcontractors to do them, and finally to return to us the answer: why did some succeed and others not? We have provided equal conditions to all, they are published on the site of the Ministry of Environment and Water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u115	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. You have the opportunity to express your attitude. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u116	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! You well explained how the Operational Programme is functioning and it is no secret to anyone that it really works because these are criteria and required conditions that are set by our European partners. We will not be able to carry them out, otherwise we will suffer sanctions not only the beneficiary, but also the state when they do not certify the costs and do not return to our country. A more fragile, more unanswered answer is our question, which concerns the distribution of the funds generated by the Ministry from national funds, namely the programmes and the funds allocated through the PUDO. Because the main complaints of those who would receive funds are precisely those who do not receive funds from the PPOOS. You have not explained in what way and by what criteria are the beneficiaries defined there, whether for a small playground, or for a million-dollar sewerage, or for a recycling dump or for something else? Because that's the main question, Minister. If you are defending bad practices that have been created in recent years and will continue to do them, that is, to put it mildly, punishable. I started my question for a reason that the Ministry is in danger of becoming permanently known for bad practices. And this is one of the bad practices, including you allowed yourself in the couloirs of parliament to threaten MPs and to say: "For this one there will be, for this one there will be, for this one there will be no! " - Was that so, Minister? Did you do something like that? That means you're in charge of the same thing. We want to understand here not only us, but also the beneficiaries, including those who contribute funds to this fund, how will they get these funds back? Who distributes them? What are the criteria? Why are there so many dissatisfied? The environmental program we're putting aside. We are talking about these funds that you and your deputies are directly responsible for this thing, and we need to get a clear answer in this direction, and we are not getting it, and I think it's the authority's turn to bury themselves in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u117	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. We are also moving on to a question from you regarding the water supply to Shumen Municipality. You have the floor again, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We will now move on to another topic that concerns Mr. Dimitrov again. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! This issue is extremely important because, although it concerns one region, one municipality, it is part of a common problem that affects many settlements in the country. I, like all residents of Shumen municipality, are interested in what is the state of the main water source for the town of Shumen, the localities, namely the Dam of Ticha. What is the available volume, what actions have you taken to ensure normal drinking water, and on what methodology do you allocate available water quantities in the dam for different needs? To a large extent, my question was provoked by a letter that is signed by you, which I have and which you say that in the case of a hypothesis, I quote: in the case of zero flow, water absorption is reduced. At the end of 2020, the volume of the dam will be about 100 million cubic metres, below the sanitary minimum below which the water is not suitable for drinking purposes, where priority drinking-bit service can not be guaranteed. Does this mean that Shumen will be the second Pernik and what measures are being taken by the Ministry, what is being done? Because what I see in recent days is a transfer of responsibility between the Ministry, between the local authorities, between the various operators. The question is: what is Shumen ultimately doing not to fall into Pernik's hypothesis? Because Shumen's problem is even bigger, there's no alternative water source there and there's no one to provide it or at least he doesn't want to provide it. Yes, you said 120 million were given to the water company. It will be done in two years, this plumbing will be made this treatment plant, but there will be nothing to run on them, dear Minister. That's the problem! There will be a new plumbing, but it will sit empty because there will be nothing in it. From then on, what happens, what happens? Here Mrs. Taneva answered: the dam is full, there is water! You say no water! It should be selected between water for irrigation and water for drinking-bit needs. What's the priority?! So we're very keen to hear, because all the noisy people are watching, and today I have dozens of calls, what will be your answer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u119	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If you're asking about Shumen, I'll give you an answer and you can publish it in the local newspaper. I'll tell you in normal words, so that your constituents understand, who are very interested right now. For many years, Shumen's system was looted and the drillings he had. I've issued an order to recover them so they can have their own sources and save water from the dam. The dam is for irrigation purposes, irrigation purposes for agriculture! That's why it's built! And after all the water sources have been destroyed, now you say, "We don't!" You've had and I've given a detailed list of all the drilling and I've sent an order to the mayor, to the chairman of the City Council, to the district governors. You have your own water sources you don't want to use because it's cheaper for you to use from the dam. What's going on with the dam? Maybe it's dry land and maybe you're the only one who didn't understand? What I have undertaken because you very much want me to say, right, my responsibility is this: the dam has 120 million, you use 35 million a year. Surely you can spend two years from now on without anything happening, but that shouldn't happen, because no one knows next year if it's dry, the next one might be dry again, it might rain, it might be full, and this issue might not be up to date. But if it's not exactly what you're trying to speculate with, you don't care what happened so far, but a minister of three months has to fill your dam! Whatever I can do, I make it rain, but it doesn't always happen! The goal we have set is to limit the use of water, except for drinking-bit purposes. How does it work? First it's the drinking-bit, then the mineral, then the farmers and finally the industry. The farmers have narrowed them down four times. We've reduced their amount of 36 million. They're going to get about 2 million at the moment. There's one or two waterings coming in the coming months. Besides drinking water, you must also eat! And it's their dam. What does business do, however, because the water plants sell drinking domestic water to the industry? In this regard are the orders we gave, and the instructions to make their own water sources so that they can unload the drinking-bit consumption of water for drinking purposes. You didn't have a water meter in the industrial zone until recently. And to stay not for a year, but to stay for three years. Within three years, the Dunav system should start and then have water, but then the next problem will come. The water from the system will be for example six, seven, eight leva, and the water from your dam is much cheaper. In order for the water of citizens to be cheaper, there must be water left in the dam as well. All my efforts are the water that is in the dam to be used for as long as possible, staying mainly for drinking-bits, the business to be removed because drinking-bits for farmers can't, but for industry can?! No, everyone has to make an effort! In the meantime, you have 120 million to recover your network and work. But where did you, with this sharpness, raise the question: and who plundered all the wells from which Shumen had enough water to drink?! Because imagine that four or five years is a drought, don't you have to have your own water sources? Why didn't you put the matter in the municipality before the City Council? You come here and: why won't the minister of three months fill my dam? He's just the way I found him! But if I sit and keep quiet now, in my mandate there is water for all over Bulgaria, but I think for two or three years, because another person will come after me, and he will have to deal with it. If we don't start the road now, it'll be too late. We think of both Burgas and Varna and the whole Black Sea coast. Water currently has enough, but we want to have water for much longer until all other systems are built. That's why we're giving money for plumbing, sewerage, a treatment plant. We want you to do your drill, we want to keep the potion for them, and the other one as possible. And the farmers have given their money, I apologize and the business to make its efforts as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u121	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u122	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Minister, you are neither the first nor the last minister I have called here on the stand to speak on this subject. You can look at the transcripts of the National Assembly and you have been a Member of the National Assembly and have heard in person because this issue does not concern you or anyone else personally, it concerns politics at all in this sector, because what is happening in Shumen is the result of a misguided policy. And right now you're responsible, you're a minister. I have listened to many ministers who here before you have transferred responsibility to the previous ones. I'm a seventh year MP and I've been chewing on this subject for seven years. Finally, we have come to the point of receiving a letter from you that there will be no water at the end of the year. I'm not saying that you're guilty, but someone eventually has to do this job. You wrote very correctly and I insist you do it. It is written this way, and I quote your letter: In this case, we are faced with a choice that cannot be taken single and without coordinating the views of all interested parties in the process whether to choose to provide, albeit minimal quantities of Those are your words, I quote them, Minister. Here I formally ask you once again and I invite you on the 4th to attend the extraordinary session in Shumen and to say these things in front of the local government because it is deaf, I confirm it. Because I do not know if you know, but yesterday at a session of the Municipal Council precisely this industrial area, which you quoted, the Municipal Council, dominated by GERB and the mayor, transferred the ownership of the plumbing network to the municipality and hence the operator will already take care of it. Do you understand what's happening in Shumen? I want you to come and say it over there. Maybe you'll be heard for something to happen. Otherwise, I am convinced that what you have written, which I quoted at the end of the year, Sumerians will be without water, Mr. Minister. And that's why we shouldn't shift our responsibilities. I did not for a reason tell you that you are neither the first nor the last minister in these seven years who have come to this stand here to speak on this subject. And everyone transfers responsibility to the previous institution or any other institution. In the end, 100,000 will suffer. Souls. Over 100,000. souls will suffer if this thing happens! My call is to make sure that all the necessary measures are taken as fast as possible to ensure that water supply is not only mine, but also all the Sumerians. Because at the moment the municipal administration, you very well know, tried to sabotage in any way the construction of alternative water sources. That's what you said. But come to the session, I invite you to really hear it from your mouth there, and not here from the stands to broadcast through the media in Shumen what happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u123	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Would you like the word for the doppelganger? Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Maybe I'll come, even though I can't go to every village and every city council. You picked these mayors, you picked the city council, you picked the chairman. Very often you choose the chairman of the water supply. I'm here to sort things out between you guys. I don't think it's gonna be right. But will you come to this session and say: since these own water sources have been looted, the bosses of the plumbing have been this one, this one, this one. These are from my political power, these are not, and these are from mine again. And all this has happened before our eyes, but we don't see it now, but from you, Minister, we want you to solve our problem. So if we're going to have this conversation, bring them all in there and ask them for responsibility, not to call me for an institution. I saw a city councilman who said there was no sanitary area. Well, then let's stop him at all! Do you think it's okay for those same 100,000 to be without water at all, because some city councilman has decided to have a PR? What is my responsibility and how do I understand it, personally, personally as a minister at the moment, not to justify myself before me and after? The way I found the dam, it's how I try to solve it, not for a year, but for three years. Is the water muddy in Shumen, should I ask, right now? Is it cloudy, tell me?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u125	It's cloudy.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u126	She's been like this for five years and she's gonna be like this for the next three years. Water for the past five years shall be taken from the same place at the dam at a minimum of 40 million. Cube. Well, taking it from the sanitary minimum of 40 million, you've got 80 million more water, you think, by the time it gets to 40, will it get any darker or cleaner? The same is the water you've been drinking for the last five years, the same will be the water you'll be drinking for the next three years. All this crap about sanitary zones, about sanitary minimums, it's fiction that doesn't exist anywhere. The dam is cloudy because it's agricultural, when rain comes, it brings mud. We therefore take it from the bottom of the tower, which is for irrigation purposes, so that you can drink as clean water as possible. The way you drink it, you'll be drinking it for the next three years. The aim is to limit it to both farmers and industry so that it stays for drinking-bits, and when the system comes, the Dunavs will be able to function as it should be. The easiest way to tell you there's water. That 120 million, of which 60, 70 million we can use. Well, that's two years. The goal is not to think like this for two years and to immediately flush the water everywhere for both farmers and industry, but to save it. The bad thing is, I have orders, schedules, and I have to force the city to save water, and he keeps asking me why I'm doing it. Well, I'm not gonna drink that water, you're gonna drink it. This water we save for you so that there can be a long-term strategy. That's my strategy. I'm not making excuses for the people before me because they're not responsible for the drought and the drought, but I'm trying to keep what's in place for as long as we can until it leaves. And you're asking me to solve problems between you, the City Council, one party, another, third and property. That's not my job.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u127	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the last issue of today's parliamentary control by the MP Jevdet Chakarov on the environmentally friendly disposal of obsolete pesticides in the country. You have the floor, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u128	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear colleagues, Dear Mr. Dimitrov! At the beginning of March this year, I and my colleague from the DPS parliamentary group asked you a written question about the environmentally friendly disposal of obsolete pesticides from the warehouse in the village of Zvinica, the municipality of Kardzhali, and such warehouses throughout the country. From your response given on 20 March, it becomes clear that an analysis of the state, location and quantity of waste in the remaining warehouses, which have not been cleaned due to the implementation of a project within the completed Bulgarian Swiss cooperation programme. Based on this analysis and the available financial resource, you said that warehouses would be identified to fall within the scope of the future procurement for repackaging, transport and final disposal of pesticides and other plant protection products with expired expiry date. It is also clear from your reply that a draft of the public procurement plan for 2020 will be presented at the forthcoming meeting of the Governing Council of the PUP, which will clarify the duration and financial parameters of this procurement. The epidemic situation related to the spread of COVID-19 across the country and in Europe as a whole has subsequently become complicated and this has led to the closure of borders. During the first reading of the Draft Law on Measures and Actions during the emergency situation announced by the National Assembly Decision on 13 March 2020, you informed that part of the pesticides were repacked and transported to the border of our country, but because of difficulties transport between countries due to the outbreak of coronavirus could neither be exported from the country nor can they be destroyed or returned to the places where they were stored. As far as I know, Bulgaria does not currently have installations in which lawful disposal of pesticides and other plant protection products with expired expiry as required by national and Community legislation in this respect can be carried out. In the meantime, on 1 April, a meeting of the Management Board of the PPOOS was held, evident from the minutes at which a Public Procurement Plan was adopted. In this regard, my question to you is: is a procurement contract for repackaging, transport and final disposal of pesticides and other expired plant protection products in the country adopted by the Board of Directors of the Public Procurement Plan for 2020 intended for repackaging, transport and final disposal of the rest of the country? If so, when is it expected to take place? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] What is her financial resources? If such an order is not provided, when and what financial resource you plan to deal with the final disposal of pesticides and plant protection products with expired expiry on the territory of Bulgaria, I stress, in the territory of Bulgaria, not only certain... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. Also, what is the current situation with the country's country-blocked repacked pesticides and other expired plant protection products? Have they been transported to their disposal end point, or have other measures and actions been taken with regard to them and, if so, what? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u129	I waited for you to ask yourself all the questions, Mr. Chakarov, but for a long time you used them. I'll have to make amends now and the Minister. Here you are, Mr. Dimitrov, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chakarov, you are consistent in the questions. I can tell you were a minister. Many useful practices from you we inherited and will gladly continue them. It's the same with the other ministers of ecology in this room. We had two trucks that were prepared to go abroad with the relevant notifications, but the coronavirus came and they couldn't arrive. We got them back where they came from. It weighs on everyone. Clearly, we can't do it in a year, clearly we can't do it in an instant and we don't have the means to do it. We had a Swiss program, it ended successfully. It's a closed page. But we also have commitments under this program, and those we have undertaken to gradually clean up. I agree that since 1986 these pesticides have been sitting in some of the settlements. They're local mayors' problems. Currently, all pesticides that are not exported from these warehouses are repacked into new containers and are in place. Problem is, someone could go tear it up, dump it, throw it in the river, wash the container to sell the canister, that would create a problem. I care very much, so I came and prayed to you during the adoption of the Emergency Act, to give us a chance to disarm them faster. It didn't happen. It was everyone's will here. They stayed where they were. That's not a solution. That is why I say that your question is extremely correct. Last December, it was decided that the program would be worth five million. I'm ready to make a contract right now, and for a much bigger sum, just to phase out, because this thing needs to be done. In essence, my answer is: in response to your question at a meeting of the Governing Council on 1 April, a Graphic Plan was adopted by 31 December 2020 to proceed with the implementation of this contract from the previous year The planned financial resource for the procurement of 16 December 2019 amounts to 5 million with VAT included. I told you that if you insist, I am also prepared to increase the amount of savings in order to compensate for these three months that we failed to work. The deadline for the announcement of a contract under Plan is July 2020. Currently, we do not have any blocked pesticides and other past-term plant protection products at the border of the country. We don't create any danger for anyone. Under the Treaty No 12483/7 September 2018 with a separate heading 3.. repackaging, cleaning, warehouse, transport, transmission and final disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous waste and other plant protection preparations in the warehouses in the territory of RIEW Vratsa, Pleven and Montana, implemented in the context of a delay until 30 June 2020, a total of 59 248 tonnes of pesticides and other plant protection products were transported to final disposal facilities in Switzerland and in Germany. We have made every effort, we have visited all the incinerators of Europe, where we have been accepted, we have disabled them. Your question is extremely relevant. If the Commission considers that it really cannot be delayed, I am also prepared in the current situation in which we are in, immediately conclude a contract and proceed to a disposal procedure abroad under European rules. We were delayed, it wasn't right, but the coronavirus got in everybody's way. We've recovered. We don't have any dangerous pesticides along the border. Everything's under control, just like before the state of emergency. Personally, I believe that Bulgaria should take these storage lockers out one by one and disarm them in the authorised incinerators of Europe, however much it costs us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u131	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Mr. Minister, I am very much satisfied with the answer, and it is in the part where your vision, understanding and position of the Ministry of Environment and Water, expressed by you, naturally. However, it is now necessary, once the situation is normalised, to the extent possible, to take action so as to finalise the activities of pesticides and leaked plant protection preparations with a duration of time, with a view to this, it is good that they have been reattached at the warehouses and those who have been on the border, but this does not solve the matter. Taking into account the way of storage,.. is not to the maximum extent secure, and this is a very serious reason for concern for the public and for the people who live in these settlements. In general, the concern is that if we think about it, this is an extremely important element of national security, these preparations are very risky. I don't want to go into detail and put fear and tension in people. It really needs to be done. I see that on the part of the Ministry of Environment and Water you are expressing your readiness, but I do not see sufficient financial resources that you foresee in this regard. Perhaps it is good to have the support of the Council of Ministers, and of the Ministry of Finance to have the necessary resources, in all Bulgaria, everywhere where there are such preparations, to be transported and disabled. Unfortunately, we do not have installations to carry out this activity in our country, where you have pointed out, not to repeat them. So we need to continue the work and finalise this activity. On behalf of the Commission, I see Mrs. Ivelina Vasileva and other colleagues from the Committee on Environment and Water and from the various parliamentary groups, and we would give the necessary support in view of the sensitivity, importance and, above all, in view of the risks posed by these pesticides. Finally, to end this topic and to have peace in particular for citizens and our fellow citizens who live in these settlements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u133	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. Do you have the floor for the doppelganger if you wish, Minister?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be very brief. Everyone who was prepared and had to leave is in the warehouses. For me, the worry of these three months was every day: someone not to go, not to steal a container, to pour it into the river, to wash the can and sell it for two levs, not to contaminate any water source, to do something that we all regret had happened. The mayor's gonna be guilty because he didn't provide security, but that wouldn't be an excuse if anything happened. My request was that this contract with the ones already packed would happen. It couldn't have been during the coronavirus, you didn't give me the opportunity. Maybe it's for the best. But I can do this: this contract to end now, to end it, and to close it again, so that they can expressly go abroad, where, I said, there are incinerators for that purpose. And I can make this 5 million, for example no more than 7 and a half, I don't know whether the resource will allow us to increase it to 7 and a half, the solution is from last year to immediately conclude a contract and give as short a time limit as possible to those companies that have been defusing, because they already have the experience, the knowledge, the Swiss rules are aware, they know where the incinerators are, to finish at least what has been planned since last year, this year to happen, and in an accelerated order. For a sum, if I get it from the Treasury, we'll put out an order, but that'll last in time, and eventually the solution will be next year. As I understand from your questioning, you want everything that had to happen and the coronavirus stopped it, to be fulfilled. I can engage the PDOOS Council because it is a collective body to introduce them and to say that the 5 million planned for last year can be increased by some amount up and we can immediately proceed to negotiating and exporting both to the already packed and to the warehouses envisaged last year. At least let's finish the program with them. I will do my best and inform the honourable President of the Committee on Environment and Water and you personally of the actions taken.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-29.u135	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. That was the last question for today. The next regular session on Wednesday 3 June, 9.00 am adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
