ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose to include the following additional item in the Programme of Work of the National Assembly: Draft declaration on the occasion of 150 years since the creation of the Bulgarian Exarchy. Importers: MPs Tsveta Karayancheva, Milen Mihov, Daniela Daritkova, Yordan Tsonev, Krastina Taskova, Dragomir Stoynev, Valeri Zhablyanov and Valeri Simeonov, on 27 February 2020. I propose that this be the first item for today's plenary session, 28 February 2020, and that the current item be the second item accordingly. Please, voting mode. Vote 182 MPs: 180, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I'll introduce you to two messages: Decision No 152 of 13 February 2020 on Case No KZK-82/2018 of the Commission for Protection of Competition adopted Sectoral analysis of the competitive environment of the wholesale market with electricity at freely negotiated prices in the Republic of Bulgaria was adopted in the National Assembly. The material shall delete the information indicated by market participants as a trade secret. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was sent to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Energy and Sub-Committee for Monitoring the Activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission of the Energy Commission and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. The decision has been published on the Commission's website. The National Statistical Institute received information about: employees and average gross wage in the fourth 3 months of 2019, gross domestic product in the fourth 3 months of 2019. "Express assessments, main results of the labour force monitoring in the fourth 3-month of 2019, inflation and consumer price indices for January 2020. supposed data. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to point one: PROJECT OF A DECLARATION ON ASKED 150 YEARS FROM THE CREATION OF THE BULGARIAN EXPARCHIA. Mr. Mihov, if you'd like to present the declaration, you can brief us on the motives and read the Declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u2	Dear Madam President of the Forty-fourth Common National Assembly! Dear Assembly, ladies and gentlemen! This declaration is related to an event that is significant and historical, which is not surrounded by a dramatic mantle of victory or tragedy, but it occupies an extremely important place in our new history. Just 150 years ago on this day the activists of the Bulgarian national, cultural and ecclesiastical movement in Tsarigrad received the signed imperial decree on the previous day, a sultan farm, which created a separate Bulgarian church organization under the name Bulgarian Exarchy. This is not just a matter of professional autonomy. Within the Empire, within the framework of public and political life then this event bears the character of recognition of Bulgarian nationality within its ethnic boundaries, within the Empire and the resulting spiritual, enlightened, cultural and administrative rights of self-government. In other words, the recognition of the Exarchy and the creation of this ecclesiastical autonomy is a form of cultural and enlightened autonomy of the Bulgarians in the Ottoman Empire. It is a product of more than five decades of national movement, which covers all Bulgarian corners from Bitola and Véles to Dobrudja, Tulcha and Babadag, from Vidin, Prilep and Nis to Lozengrad and Edirne. For more than five decades the Bulgarians strive to achieve this ecclesiastical autonomy. Today we have the opportunity on this jubilee day to take a step towards the greatness, dignity, perseverance and efforts of those Bulgarians who, in far more difficult circumstances, led the national struggle, led the Bulgarians to their drives for cultural, spiritual and political independence. The creation of the Exarchy of modern Bulgarian historiography is defined as the creation of a state before the state, and the borders of the Exarchy as a projection of the future boundaries of independent Bulgaria. Therefore, we importers appeal to support this declaration with self-esteem and dignity and take a small step to the greatness of our predecessors! Let me read the text: DECLARATION on the occasion of 150 years since the establishment of the Bulgarian Exarchy Every modern nation and country has peak appearances that not only arouse pride and support among the contemporarys of the event, but leave lasting traces of admiration and appreciation among future generations. Such an event, which stands out and marks an important stage of the social and political and spiritual development of the Bulgarian people, is the establishment of the Bulgarian Exarchy. Created by a sultan farm on 27 February 1870 and announced a few hours later among the Bulgarians in the Ottoman Empire, it legitimized the peak in the struggles of the Bulgarian church-enlightened movement and the aspirations of its spiritual leaders who took on the difficult task of restoring the Bulgarian Orthodox Church. From the day of the signing of the Farm Exarchia became the only legitimate institution which represents the Bulgarian people before the Ottoman government and before the outside world until the establishment of the Bulgarian state in 1878. 10 of the founding farm, along with the other Bulgarian dioceses in its diocese enter Nishka, Pirotska and Véleska diocese. The territory of the Exarchia clearly outlines the lands of Bulgarian nationality. A little later, in their own volition, the Bulgarians from three earchies joined the Ekzarhiya, Skopska, and Bitolska. The national consultation shows that more than two thirds of the population in these lands definitely wants Bulgarian teachers and priests, although the name Bulgaria is still absent from the map of Europe. The determination of the Bulgarian spiritual leaders has not been stopped after the decision of the Ecumenical Patriarchate to declare the Bulgarian Orthodox Church schismic in 1872. The findings are political, but are presented to the outside world as canonical and are defended for a long time. After the appearance of the dreamt for centuries free Homeland Eczarchia even more persistently supports the desire of the Bulgarians who remained outside the Principality for spiritual unity. Exarchic spiritual and educational centers become a smithy of builders of the Bulgarian state of intellectuals, statesmen, politicians, lecturers, public figures, military activists and last but not least, brave revolutionaries. Teachers in Thessaloniki, Ser, Bitola, Krushevo, Batlep, Resen, Skopje, Struga, Ohrid, Shtip, Lozengrad, Edirne and elsewhere, themselves direct participants in the Bulgarian national liberation movement, train thousands of children not only on reading and letter, but also on unholy devotion and devotion to family and homeland, language and faith. We, the MPs of the Forty-fourth National Assembly, given the huge role and place of the Exarchy in the history of the Bulgarian people, are convinced that the 150-year anniversary deserves special attention because the birth and development of this holy spiritual institution restores Bulgaria's place not only as a national ecclesiastical and cultural outbreak of the Balkans, but also as an indispensable European civilization factor. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB, "BSP for Bulgaria", "United Patriarchs" and "VOLIA" "Bulgarian Rhodolists".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u3	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Colleagues, I will put to the vote the text of the Declaration, which was supported by representatives of all parliamentary groups in the Forty-fourth National Assembly. Vote 177 MPs: for 177, against and abstention there is no. [[Applause by the United Patriarchs.]] The motion is accepted. I think he deserves a round of applause for this vote. [[Applause from GERB, "BSP for Bulgaria", "United Patriarchs" and "VOLIA" "Bulgarian Rhodolists".]] Colleagues, we're moving on to point two for today: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR REGIOAL DEVELOPMENT. Mr. Veselinov, please present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u4	Thank you, Madam President. I will ask you before I begin with the Second Reading Report on the Bill to make a procedural proposal at the discretion of Deputy Minister Denitsa Nikolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u5	Thank you. Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 159 MPs: 156 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite Mrs. Nikolova to the hall. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u6	The Law on Regional Development was amended and supplemented by the Law on Regional Development (prom., SG No. ...) The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u7	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law supported by the Commission. Vote 138 MPs: 138, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u8	According to § 1, there is a proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... Art. 1. This law governs the planning, programming, management, resource security, monitoring, control and evaluation of the implementation of the system of documents for strategic planning of regional and spatial development.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u9	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 1 of the Commission Report. Vote 137 MPs: 134, no objection, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u10	According to § 2 there is a proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MP Dora Yankova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2: (a) c. 2 is finally added to promote investment, competitiveness and innovation. (b) c. 3 at the end is added to the integration of the cross-border regions. c) create t. 4, 5 and 6: "4." ensuring a territorial basis for sustainable regional and spatial development and for the implementation of integrated territorial investment; 5. improving the state of the areas with adverse socio-economic, geographical and demographic characteristics; 6. adaptation to climate change and reduction of disaster risk. 2. In para. 3, p. 5 the word "structural' is replaced by "sectorly' and "supplied'.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u11	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of Paragraph 2 of the Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u12	Vote 141 MPs: 140, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u13	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u14	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 3. They voted 130 MPs: for 129, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u15	According to § 4, there is a proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Dora Yankova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 the words "level 1' are added to the list of statistical zones and comma. 2. In para. 3: (a) in the text before t. 1 after the words "level 2', the planning regions and the comma are added; (b) c. 5 the words "Sofia and Sofia" are replaced by "Sofia and Sofia" (Sofia municipality). The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... Chapter 2 "Spatial development planning" with art. 7a, 7b, 7c, 7d and 7e is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u16	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 4; the text of the importer for § 5; and the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 6. They voted 121 MPs: 120, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u17	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... Article 8 is amended as Art. 8. (1) The strategic planning of regional development shall integrate regional and spatial development and shall cover the development and update of a system of documents to reduce imbalance in the development of national territory taking into account territorial potential, including ensuring the development of cross-border, transnational and interregional cooperation. (2) The system of documents for strategic planning of regional and spatial development shall cover: 1. National concept of regional and spatial development; 2. integrated territorial development strategies for the level 2 planning regions; 3. plan for integrated development of the municipality. (3) The documents under para. 2 are located in hierarchical coherence and are developed as follows: 1. The national concept of regional and spatial development for up to 15 years, with the exception of the technical infrastructure elements that are planned for up to 30 years; 2. the integrated territorial development strategies for the planning regions of level 2 for a period of 7 years, with the exception of the technical infrastructure elements that are planned for a period of up to 30 years; 3. the plan for integrated development of the municipality for 7 years. (4) The documents under para. 2 serve as: 1. identifying the current problems, needs and potentials for the development of the regions, municipalities and settlements that are taken into account in the development of investment programmes and financial instruments, including co-financed by EU funds; 2. identification of projects contributing to the achievement of national objectives and priorities for regional and local development; 3. planning and implementation of integrated approaches for territorial and urban development; 4. coordination of sectoral and horizontal policies at territorial level by taking into account their territorial dimensions; 5. ensuring consistency of the conduct of the state regional development policy with the strategic documents at national level; 6. coordination of the development of the national territory and aquatoria in accordance with the sea spatial plan of the Republic of Bulgaria. § 8. Article 9 is repealed. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u18	Statements? You have the floor, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u19	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take reference to § 9, by which you cancel the strategic planning at the level of the district at level 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u20	We haven't reached § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u21	You've read...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u22	No, Art. 9 read, I apologize, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u23	Article 9 cancels...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u24	No, §8 cancels art. 9. We're done. [[(Radio.) Details between the MP Nadia Klisurska and the rapporteur Iskren Veselinov.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u25	My comment is by:........................................................................................... Article 9 is canceled. " - What do I mean? The Law amending the Law on Regional Development provides for the introduction of this two-stage model of management of regional development councils, which includes the management and expert technical council. The changes extend the functions and powers of the regional structures in the level 2 regions that will perform functions related to the implementation of programmes co-financed by the European Structural and Investment Fund. What you write is that the changes that have occurred will not significantly affect the rest of the national legislation. Why did I read part of the motive? Because we are obliged to note that with what we do with the cancellation of art. 9 and this new model of governance, regional development implies, first of all, radical constitutional change. Why would I say that? Article 142 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria lays down that the area is an administrative and territorial unit for the implementation of regional policy for the implementation of state government on the ground and for ensuring compliance between national and local interests. Management Nonsense is when the Constitution defines the area as an administrative and territorial unit for the conduct of a regional policy for the implementation of state government on the ground and ensuring compliance between national and local interests, entrusting the management of a regional governor, assisted by a regional administration, with a function to ensure the conduct of state policy, to be responsible for the protection of national interests, law and public order, and for the implementation of administrative control, and to do so without a strategy and plan! It is with what you propose in § 8, that you cancel the possibility for the regional governors to draw up such strategic documents, namely the Constitution, that regional policy is carried out by regional administrations. This is the answer I gave in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, because this question has not been answered by the relevant Regional Ministry. In no way has he received a response in the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. In this regard, I propose, ladies and gentlemen of the House: let us not cancel the possibility for the regional governors to participate in the strategic planning of the documents because the Constitution has regulated it! And that regional governors will participate in regional councils in the way it is now being introduced by this amendment does not cancel the need for them to make strategic planning! In this regard, I propose § 8, which regulates the cancellation of art. 9, not to be accepted by you, because we are going to violate the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I will put two texts to the vote: the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 7 and the text of the importer for § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u27	Let's not be together!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u28	The colleague suggests that the paragraphs should be voted separately.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u29	This was not a proposal.. was a call.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u30	In the manner of conduct! [[Radio, lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u31	Okay, I'll put them to the vote separately. I didn't understand it as a proposal, excuse me. Colleagues, I will put the two texts to the vote separately. First, we are voting on the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 7. Vote 109 MPs: for 108, no objection, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I am now putting the text of the importer to the vote for § 8. Vote 109 MPs: 85 against 14, abstention 10. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u32	Under § 9 there is a proposal from Dora Yankova and a group of MPs. In § 9 in the new content of art. 10 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." In para. 6 the word "admission" is replaced by "adopted" and the end of the sentence is added is adopted by the National Assembly. 2. The creation of para. 7. In the process of developing the National Concept of Regional and Space Development, preliminary consultations with stakeholders shall be held. The draft concept is subject to mandatory online public consultations through the Public Consultation Portal, supported by the Council of Ministers. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, as in para. 4 t. 11 the words "statistical regions' shall be replaced by "planning regions'.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u33	Statements? Mrs. Yankova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u34	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Our proposal of a group of MPs is on the occasion of para. 6 in proposals § 9, which is an amendment to art. 10. We propose the National Concept of Regional and Space Development to be adopted by the Council of Ministers, but after a discussion in the National Assembly. Why are we proposing a debate in the National Assembly? Because we believe that a long period of up to 15 years, which concerns the regional development of the Republic of Bulgaria, is too long a period and may be one of the issues on which the Assembly after debate, after the energy of all political families as a proposal, may have an agreement, one of the issues of agreement, for the future development of the country. You see these two planning periods what deep divisional regional lines and contrasts have created. If the government has a commitment to continue to deepen these problems that are related to regional development, it will remain only and will take on more and more commitments as a negative. Let us therefore allow this national concept of regional and spatial development to be debated in Parliament, moreover, that we refer to the proposal of the National Association of Municipalities on 17 January 2020. See what they propose to the National Assembly: "To ensure continuity and sustainability of the horizontal in nature and with a planned long-term impact on the territory of the country, it is appropriate that the National Concept should be the subject of adoption by the National Assembly" - that is, the Bulgarian municipalities also offer us to adopt this national spatial concept. It doesn't make sense that the body where the most energy is collected from the people to run away and to refuse, and to leave this to the Council of Ministers. I therefore appeal, honourable Members, to support our proposal in para. 6 the word "takes" to be replaced by "yes" and the last sentence to be added to the sentence is adopted by the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Are there any lines? I won't. Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u36	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will probably repeat some of the arguments of my colleague Dora Yankova, but really, if, despite the insufficiently good design of the bill, we unite around this proposal and it is supported, a serious success will be achieved, because such a strategic document as the National Concept of Regional and Space Development may have more importance than the bill itself. Over the years, they have been created at different levels of municipal, regional and national, various strategic documents, which were ultimately stillborn, did not produce real regional policies and we have come to this state that we are today, with even more serious differences between the regions. Therefore, a debate and Parliament's approval of such a strategic document after its adoption by the Council of Ministers will be a significant move by the legislature in terms of regional development policies and convergence of the socio-economic characteristics of the regions. I'll set an example of bad practice. You remember very well the targeted investment programme for certain regions in the country, for which a very wide debate was opened at all levels at the beginning. Huge institutional and social energy has really been spent. In the end, when it was necessary for the authority to adopt it, the Council of Ministers, to finalise this whole debate, to accept it and to put it into practice, eventually it stopped and nothing happened. Obviously, it is necessary, as I said in my first reading of the Bill, the concentration of large public energy of the non-governmental sector, of all stakeholders, of course, and all institutions, for the creation of a really working strategic document for regional development. I, like Dora Yankova, urge you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. I will put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Dora Yankova and a group of MPs. They voted 104 MPs: 26, against 25, abstention 53. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 9 with the proposals for replacement in the test made by the Commission. They voted 101 MPs: 81, none, abstention 20. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u38	According to § 10, there is a proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Dora Yankova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10: ..................................................... Article 11 is amended as follows: Art. 11. (1) For level 2 planning regions integrated territorial development strategies shall be developed. (2) The integrated territorial strategy for the development of a Level 2 planning region shall define the medium-term objectives, priorities and prospects for sustainable integrated regional and local development in the territory of the relevant planning region in accordance with the National Concept of Regional and Spatial Development and other sectoral and horizontal policies, as well as its relations with other level 2 planning regions in the country and neighbouring countries in the macro-region. (3) The integrated territorial strategy for the development of the Level 2 planning region shall coordinate the forecasts of sectoral strategies and documents at regional level in the field of economic development, health, education, science, social services, transport, water sector, energy, broadband, tourism and the environment and shall take into account their regional specifics and territorial dimensions. (4) The integrated territorial development strategy of the Level 2 planning region shall take into account the forecasts and investment intentions for development for the territory of the area and shall be used as a basis for the development of regional State aid schemes. (5) The integrated territorial development strategy for the Level 2 planning region shall contain: 1. analysis of the economic, social and environmental situation, needs and potentials for development of the relevant region for planning at level 2; 2. predictions, alternative scenarios and spatial development models; 3. vision, objectives and priorities for regional and spatial development of the Level 2 planning region; 4. spatial structure with central, highly urbanized territories, peripheral and rural less urbanized territories, areas for the protection of natural and cultural values and territories with specific characteristics and problems; 5. functional and hierarchic structure of the network of settlements with cities centers and identified areas for industrial development and business, for recreation and tourism, for the implementation of integrated territorial investment; 6. main and secondary axes of urban development with national and regional importance and links with the axes of development in the macro-region; 7. transport and infrastructure corridors and sites of national and regional importance and links with neighbouring regions in the country and neighbouring countries; 8. measures for integrated territorial recovery and development; 9. measures and activities to adapt to climate change and reduce the risk of disasters; 10. an indicative list of important for the level 2 planning region project ideas with indicative budgets and optimal performance schedule; 11. an overall assessment of the necessary resources for the implementation of the strategy specified by year according to the optimal timetable for the implementation of project ideas; 12. necessary actions and indicators for monitoring and evaluating the implementation of the integrated territorial development strategy. (6) The integrated territorial development strategies for level 2 planning regions shall be developed by a specialised trading company with a hundred state participation in the capital in which the rights of the State are exercised by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. (7) The integrated territorial development strategies for level 2 planning regions shall be approved by the regional development councils. (8) Integrated territorial development strategies for level 2 planning regions shall be adopted by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works after their approval by the relevant regional development councils. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u39	Statements? You have the floor, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u40	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm going to take this attitude one last time, and I'm going to warn again in this room that with what we're doing right now, with the cancellation of art. 12 of the Law on Regional Development, we substantially violate the constitutional provision of art. 142. I want to read something else. The Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in art. 135, says: The territory of the Republic of Bulgaria is divided into municipalities and districts. With what we do, with the cancellation of art. 12, which regulates regional development strategies.. Let them be named in the way we now introduce it in the Law on Regional Development, but let them integrate such district strategies, let them be united spatial and development projects, which were previously regulated in the Law on Regional Development, but let us not take away the constitutional provision of this area to be a factor. The fact that the regional governors, once again, will be part of the regional councils at level 2 does not in any way correspond to the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, and I believe that these texts will be, must be challenged in constitutional order. In conclusion, what am I going to say? It is essential to point out that the Constitution entrusts the consistency between national and local interests and this to take place at regional level 3 and not at level 2. This again requires a strategy and work of an authority that, through representation, brings together, firstly, the sole territorial bodies of executive power, district governor and mayors of municipalities and, secondly, the local self-government bodies. This comes from the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen of the House, so that I make a final appeal to you..... that this article should not be repealed and let us not support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. I assume you'll be proposing that we vote separately again.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u42	Of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u43	Okay. Are there any lines? What about other speeches? There are no lines. There are no other speeches. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 10. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I am now putting to the vote the text of the importer for §11. Vote 94 MPs: 68 against 21 and abstention 5. The offer is accepted. [[Declarations between the President and the rapporteur Alexander Nenkov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u44	Mr. President, if you could, since all the Members have not been able to vote, put § 11 to the vote again.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u45	I'm rethinking the text of the importer for § 11. Vote 108 MPs: 81 against 19 and abstention 8. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u46	According to § 12, there is a proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. There is a proposal from the MP Dora Yankova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12: § 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The integrated development plan of the municipality shall define the objectives and priorities for the sustainable development of the municipality and its relations with other municipalities in accordance with the integrated territorial strategy for the development of the level 2 planning region and the general planning plan of the municipality. 2. A new para is being created. 2: The integrated development plan of the municipality provides spatial, temporal and factual coordination and integration of various policies and planned resources to achieve the defined objectives for the sustainable improvement of the economic, social and environmental status of the municipal territory. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3 and is amended as follows: The integrated development plan of the municipality shall contain: 1. analysis of the economic, social and environmental condition, needs and potentials for the development of the respective municipality; 2. objectives and priorities for the development of the municipality for a certain period; 3. areas for the implementation of an integrated approach to meet identified needs and support development potentials and opportunities for cooperation with other municipalities; 4. measures to limit climate change and measures to adapt to climate change and reduce disaster risk; 5. the partners and stakeholders and the forms of participation in the preparation and implementation of the plan, subject to the principles of partnership and information and publicity; 6. an indicative list of important project ideas for the municipality with draft budgets and optimal timetable of implementation; 7. a general assessment of the necessary resources for the implementation of the plan specified by years according to the optimal timetable for the implementation of the important project ideas for the municipality; 8. program for implementation of the plan for integrated development of the municipality; 9. necessary actions and indicators for monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of the plan. 4. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4 and in it, the words "Community Development Plan" shall be replaced by "The Plan for Integrated Development of the Municipality." 5. The creation of para. 5. The approved plan for integrated development of the municipality shall be presented by the mayor of the municipality to the relevant district development council within three months of its adoption by the relevant municipal council. The Commission shall support the text of the importer of § 13. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u47	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the version of the Commission proposed for the wording of § 12 and the text of the importer for paragraphs 13 and 14. 100 MPs voted: 96, none, abstention 4. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u48	According to § 15 there is a proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Dora Yankova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 1. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 2. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15. ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 16 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The Council of Ministers adopted the National Concept of Regional and Space Development and the Integrated Territorial Strategies for the Development of Level 2 Regions on a proposal from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. 2. In para. 2 The national concept of spatial development and the objectives and priorities of the National Strategy for Regional Development are replaced by the National concept of regional and spatial development and the integrated territorial strategies for the development of the regions for planning at level 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u49	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I will put to the vote the part not supported by the Commission in the proposal of the MP Dora Yankova and a group of MPs. They voted 93 MPs: 20, against 42, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of §15. Vote 97 MPs: 82 against 8, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u50	According to § 16 there is a proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Dora Yankova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, i.e. 3 the words "statistical regions' shall be replaced by "planning regions'.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u51	We're done here. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 16 with the proposal for replacement made by the Commission in the text of § 16. Vote 94 MPs: for 93, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u52	According to § 17 there is a proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MP Dora Yankova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17: Seventeen. Article 18 is amended as follows: Art. 18. (1) Regional Development Councils shall be established in the Level 2 planning regions. (2) The Regional Development Council shall coordinate the implementation of the State Regional Development Policy in the relevant Level 2 planning region. (3) The Regional Development Council shall consist of a Chair, Vice-President and members and shall be assisted by an expert panel. (4) Members of the Regional Development Council shall be: 1. the district governors of the areas of the relevant level 2 planning region; 2. Mayors of municipalities and/or chairmen of municipal councils from the respective planning region of level 2. (5) The representatives of the municipalities of the regional development council shall be appointed by the representatives of the municipalities, members of the respective district development council, in accordance with the rules of application of the law. (6) The number of representatives of municipalities in the regional development council shall be determined as follows: 1. for the districts with population up to 200 000 people, two representatives; 2. for the districts with population from 200 001 to 300,000 people, three representatives; 3. for the districts with population from 300 001 to 400,000 people, four representatives; 4. for the districts with a population of 400 001 to 500 000 people - five representatives; 5. for districts with a population of over 500,000 representatives. (7) The President of the Regional Development Council shall: 1. manage the meetings of the Regional Development Council; 2. ensure transparency of the work on the performance of the functions of the Regional Development Council; 3. ensure the conditions for holding the meetings of the Regional Development Council by respecting the principle of impartiality in the implementation of the decision-making process by the members of the Regional Development Council. (8) The President of the Regional Development Council shall be determined under conditions and in order laid down in the Rules of Implementation of the Law. At the decision of the Regional Development Council, a member of the Council or a non-Council member may be elected as chairman. Where the Chairman of the Council is a person outside the composition of para. 4, it shall not have a vote in the adoption of decisions by the Regional Development Council. (9) The Vice-President of the Regional Development Council shall assist the Chair of the Regional Development Council in the performance of its functions. (10) The Vice-President of the Regional Development Council shall be determined under conditions and in order laid down in the Rules of Implementation of the Law. (11) The Secretary of the Regional Development Council shall be the Head of the Territorial Unit of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for strategic and spatial planning and coordination of regional development in the relevant Level 2 planning region. The Secretary of the Council shall: 1. organize and ensure the administrative and technical work of the Regional Development Council; 2. participate in the meetings of the Regional Development Council without the right to vote in decision-making. (12) In carrying out its functions, the President shall be assisted by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works territorial unit for strategic and spatial planning and coordination of regional development in the relevant Level 2 planning region. The regional development council shall be composed of three separate units with specific functions: a meditation unit, a public consultation unit and a pre-selection unit. (13) In the meetings of the Regional Development Council with the right to an advisory vote, as observers participate: 1. a representative of the Directorate of Central Coordination Unit in the administration of the Council of Ministers; 2. a representative of the Executive Agency "Odit of European Union Funds" at the Ministry of Finance; 3. one representative from each ministry; 4. representative of the National Statistical Institute; 5. representative of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences; 6. representative of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria; 7. representatives of the nationally represented employers' organisations who have their members in the territory of the relevant level 2 planning region; 8. representatives of the nationally represented organisations of employees; 9. representatives of the higher schools in the respective level 2 planning region; 10. representatives of the economic sector in the relevant level 2 planning region. 11. representatives of non-profit legal entities operating in public benefit in the territory of the relevant level 2 planning region. (14) Observers under para. 13, p. 6 "11 shall have the right to vote in the adoption of decisions under art. 19th para. 1, t. 3. (15) The rules of procedure for determining the name composition of the representatives under para. 13 shall be determined by the rules of application of the law. (16) The funds necessary for the activities of the Regional Development Council and for strengthening its administrative capacity may be foreseen as resources under the operational programmes co-financed by the ESI Funds as well as with State budget funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u53	Thank you. Statements? Mrs. Yankova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u54	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Essentially, what is proposed to change art. 18 through § 17, it is precisely in the planning regions level 2 to set up regional development councils. Now, on our Constitution and at all on regional policy or policy, which the Council of Ministers entrusts, is done by state authorities. Here we are making a collective body with extremely serious commitments and I do not know whether we are making an irresponsible body behind which to hide the failures for the next planning period that is to come, for the things that will not happen. The step that may have been done through this law is to make the second level of self-government well written, to go through the elections of governors or district managers at the planning area level, or whatever it is to call it, even if we make a change in the Constitution, to give them money, the cases that are due for the region, and therefore to take responsibility. Now the money is in the government, in the governing authorities, along with this we are trying through these regional councils the policy that they will be connected to coordinate and guide. What are they gonna coordinate and guide? Isn't there going to be a adopted National Space Concept?! Isn't this concept going to fall on the planning area?! And what are they going to do, notice at the next point they will do the political sieve of the projects that will go to the governing authorities. How will this be done is unclear because it must become possible clear through the rules that will be adopted by the Council of Ministers. Therefore, we have made some opportunities for improvement, but we firmly do not accept what is proposed as a proposal for a non-profit legal entity operating in public benefit in the territory of the respective level 2 planning area. Do you know how many non-governmental organizations there are? It doesn't even say what their selection will be. I even appeal to the Bulgarian people: make non-governmental organizations for public benefit and apply to be members of the planning regions! Who's gonna cut them off and how are they gonna be remembered? Therefore, there is an improvement in the proposals, even if the individual institutions have a consultative voice. In the Regional Commission, we've tried to make some improvements. Dear colleagues, at the moment this large body will bleed out the districts, will bleed out the functions, the district governors will become figures. They will be in this planning region and when they return to Smolyan, Pazardzhik, Kardzhali or wherever, they will shake their heads and say: If you think about what is currently being done, yes, we are supporters in the next planning period to look for opportunities to align the differences that have deepened, which are problematic, to have a horizontal sectoral policy interaction, but I and the Commission have shared the great concern that as the Danube concept did not happen, and it was designed in the same way for impact and the Northwest remained one of the poorest, at the moment I have the concern that these bodies will be representative bodies. Some people will shake the heads, nothing will depend on them, there will be provocations to stop projects, and that is a great responsibility that we accept. Since our proposal is not adopted in this way that we think and debate, we will not support this proposal. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Ali.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u56	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We, from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, will also not support this paragraph because we believe that in the presence of regional councils, where important decisions will be made, and decisions on which the development of certain regions depends, cannot be made by non-governmental organisations registered for a non-profit purpose, to decide on business projects, that is to say, funds that will be distributed between municipalities, regions for the development of those municipalities which are in the designated regions. It is very important to be with an advisory voice, to enjoy their ideas, to say according to their statistics which region is weaker, which municipality is weaker financially and is not developed, to be able to distribute, to use their skills in this regard and their statistics which they will submit, but not to make decisions or have voting rights in these councils by region. That's our offer. We will not support it this way, and I hope we do not vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u57	Thank you, Mr. Ali. Are there any lines? You have the floor for a line, Mr. Dinkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Ali, I agree with what you have said, and I am giving you a reply in the form of a question: with this structure of regional councils, with these functions that will have for project selection, for approval, for inclusion in the respective programmes and for this composition, which is defined by the Law, will not small municipalities be harmed when considering the concept of development of the area concerned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u59	Thank you, dear Mr. Dinkov. Are there any other lines? Hole, Mr. Ali, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u60	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Colleague, my back is in this relationship. It's a very clear question. Just the small municipalities will be damaged again because until now, where there were regional councils, small municipalities were represented by mayors of municipalities, there were no such decisions, apart from the strategic plans, in which we have been trying for years to introduce some order and to have statistical documents that are now being offered. After all, they were only informants to the central government. Nothing concrete has been done. The law is very good, that is why these changes are being made with the idea of improving things. I am convinced that under such a status quo as is offered, at such powerful regional councils, where everyone will be present, always the big municipalities, the big regions will prevail over the small ones. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u61	Thank you, Mr. Ali. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u62	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would also like to increase your attention on the risk of political selection of projects to be considered in regional councils, of course, and the role of the non-governmental sector. It is clear what colleagues before me have commented that there is a huge risk that small municipalities really do not have their representation or their weight in these regional councils when deciding on the selection of projects, but the other risk that I was talking about in the debate on the first reading of the Bill is that these regional councils can, by political criteria, carry out the selection of future projects. When we called on you just now to extend the procedure for approving the National Concept of Regional and Space Development with the inclusion of all stakeholders and the non-governmental sector in the debate on its preparation and adoption, you did not accept it, and now the regional councils are giving a serious burden to the non-governmental sector in terms of the formation of state policy in this particular region. In our view, the risk and conflict of interest, even with the participation in the selection of the projects of representatives of the non-governmental sector, is very large in the absence of criteria for the selection of these organisations for their participation in regional councils. And the whole idea of creating such a second level for forming regional policies and, naturally, sealing them with specific regional projects could collapse, be blocked, or the effect because of the risk of political selection of good ideas for regional policies to be corrupted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u63	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? Line, Mr. Dinkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u64	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Ivanov, from the so-made proposal in the Law on the Formation of Regional Councils, it is evident that the large areas of the Regional Council, such as Burgas, Varna and others, will have very many representatives in the Regional Council. This in itself creates an opportunity for decision-making in favour of larger areas compared to smaller areas. So it is where the South Central region and the South West region will be included. For example, a Haskovo region with its representatives cannot be compared to an area such as Plovdiv or others. What do you think: Is there a risk in making decisions in regional councils to have different criteria and to make decisions that benefit certain areas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u65	Thank you, Mr. Dinkov. Second line, Mrs. Yankova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u66	I make a line, perhaps colleagues to hear, as NGOs in public benefit in the territory of a planning area, colleagues, are also Chitalishtes. And since there is no way in the Law in which they will be defined, does this mean that the secretaries or chairmen of the Chitalishtes will enter the regional councils and we will have 40 of them in these councils, or 50, or 60, or in a large planning area of 100 people? The law isn't precise here. You are right, colleague, that this can be the custom people who will stop state policy will be the lobbyists. What guarantee do we have? We understand that some improvements have been made here. The mayor has the status of elected by the population, the governor appointed by the state, we introduce NGOs as members of this body. We want them either to drop out or to be with an advisory voice as a regular member and he will participate and vote without reducing how much to be from the entire planning area. And here I want to think about or take a break. I have a procedural proposal, President, according to some of the proposals where the state is, the municipalities, we will support them, but in the other part, where our proposals are not accepted, we will not support them and not offer them the vote anbloc.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Before I give you the floor for the duplicate, Mrs. Yankova, so presented the text by the Commission does not allow to understand which are supported and which are not supported texts. I could not personally identify and submit as usual is the practice and is in accordance with the requirements of the Rules. I will therefore put the text to the vote as proposed by the Commission, and you could already vote as you choose. Hole, Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear colleague Yankova, Dear colleague Dinkov! You're right. Once again, if so far these regional councils had a somewhat formal role, they discussed strategic documents, carried out an evaluation and monitoring of implementation and took into account their implementation, their composition and functions were somehow adopted without much conflicting discussions and opinions regarding their functions, now their burden with these responsibilities regarding the selection of projects, by which to implement state policy in the specific region, given their proposed composition in the text of the Law, their definition of their functions with the Rules of the Law, already creates, as we have said, this risk of imbalances in relation to the interests of specific areas in the regional councils, and as we have already said, with regard to the interests of smaller municipalities, which will probably not be able to influence in any way the regional policy in the specific planning region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u69	Thank you. Any other speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 17. They voted 123 MPs: 82, Against 9, abstention 32. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u70	Under § 18, there is a proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Dora Yankova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MP Iskren Veselinov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18: .............................................................................. Article 19 is amended as follows: Art. 19. (1) The Regional Development Council: 1. discusses and approves the draft integrated territorial strategy for the development of the region for planning at level 2; 2. performs functions of management, coordination, monitoring and control of the implementation of the integrated territorial development strategy of the relevant Level 2 planning region; 3. participate in the selection process of projects co-financed by the European Structural and Investment Funds from other European funds and financial sources, including financial instruments and the corresponding national co-financing in the implementation of the integrated territorial strategy for the development of the Level 2 planning region where it has been delegated powers by the relevant managing authorities/national partner bodies; 4. present letters of support in relation to the participation of Bulgarian partners in projects under cross-border cooperation programmes co-financed by the ESI Funds and instruments for pre-accession assistance of the European Union under conditions and in order laid down by the Rules for the Implementation of the Law. 5. carry out an advisory function in the preparation of plans for integrated development of municipalities in the region for planning of level 2; 6. examines and discusses issues relevant to the development of the Level 2 planning region. (2) The organization and activities of a regional development council shall be determined by the rules of application of the law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u71	Statements? Mrs. Yankova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u72	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the Commission's last proposal, I appeal to you to divide it procedurally. 3 absolutely will not support, per item. 4 as a proposal we will support the amendment of art. 19. Our motives are as follows. Colleagues, it is proposed to the parliament to sanction this regional council to make a selection of projects co-financed by the ESI Funds and other European funds in implementation of the integrated territorial strategy for the development of the level 2 statistical area when it is delegated powers by the relevant managing authorities/national partnering bodies. By what criteria? In the Managing Authority, you apply with projects, and you have a criteria for getting it back. Here you apply to a collective body and by what criterion will there be opportunities to participate in the selection process? What will the large collective body say? We do not like this project, this project does not comply with the spatial concept and it will not reach the Managing Authority, and there will be no way to appeal it. In other words, to create this with the rules of the Council of Ministers, what do you trust which Managing Authority will delegate what and what will give this collective body a Regional Council? I therefore appeal to you to support the proposal of the President of the Commission for amendment on this point. 19: to remain everything that is written in the proposal of the Council of Ministers suppose points 3 and 4 to drop out, which is now united in item 3. 3, and to support the President's proposal, but without that. 3. Please, Chairman, let's split this up. Because even now you may be happy that you will dominate these regional councils to come a colorful coalition group that will manage. Do you know what these regional councils will be like, what centrifugal forces there will be inside, how they will sanction the projects that will go to the governing authorities? You just can't imagine it. If you try to imagine, think over the next seven years what power we delegate to such a collective body! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. To clarify, you are proposing in the text of art. 19th para. 1, t. 3 to be voted separately from all others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u74	First, let's vote on this. 3 and then let's move on...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u75	That's exactly what I'm gonna do. Are there any other statements? I can't see. We'll move on to the vote. I'll put it to the vote first. 3, as Mrs. Yankova suggested, under art. 19th para. 1. Please vote. [[Noise and lines.]] Cancel the vote! Because it became a misunderstanding, Mrs. Yankova proposed a separate vote on art. 19th para. 1, t. 3, which she does not support. And I, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, put to a split vote. 3. First we will vote on it, then we will vote on the whole proposed text by the Commission under § 18. Is there anyone who can talk? No. Let's move on. I'm voting on it. Art. 3 of art. 19th para. 1. If it is accepted, we continue with the whole text. If it is not accepted, we will continue with the whole text without it. 3. [[Heckling]] Vote 117 MPs: 77 against 39, abstention 1. Point 3 has been accepted. I will now put to the vote the entire text in the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 18 and the already voted item is included. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u76	They voted 122 MPs: 84, against 29, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I go any further, I ask that I do a procedure to extend our legislative activity to the adoption of this point today.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u78	I shall put to the vote the proposal to extend the working time until the legislative activity is completed. [[Noise and lines.]] Not at work, but at work on the legislative part of our Programme. [[Heckling]] Cancel the vote! We just need to figure out what's on the table.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u79	I propose that until the adoption of the Law on Regional Development, which we are currently looking at, the meeting should continue until then.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u80	Cancel the current vote! I put to the vote a proposal to extend the work on legislative activity until the adoption of this bill. They voted 118 MPs: 90, against 21, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the importer in the version of the Commission for § 19, which has already been read. 110 MPs voted: 98, against 2, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u81	According to § 20, there is a proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by Dora Yankova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Points 1, 2 and 4 are repealed. 2. Points 5 and 6 are amended as follows: It's five o'clock. assist the municipal administrations of municipalities in the development and implementation of the plans for integrated development of municipalities by providing advice and recommendations; 6. assist in the implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the relevant integrated territorial development strategy for the region for planning at level 2; 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 8 the words the Regional Development Strategy and the Municipal Development Plans shall be replaced by the territorial development strategy of the relevant Level 2 planning region and the plans for integrated development of the municipalities in the area. 4. point 9 is amended as follows: Nine. contribute to the provision of information and publicity on the territory of the relevant area on the implementation of the integrated territorial development strategy for the region for planning at level 2; The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u82	I shall put the proposal to the vote in the version of the Commission under § 20 and § 21. Vote 97 MPs: 94, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u83	Under § 22, there is a proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by Dora Yankova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 the words "the Municipal Development Plan" shall be replaced by "the integrated development plan of the municipality." 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 the words the Municipal Development Plan and the plan for integrated development of the municipality shall be replaced by the plan for integrated development of the municipality. 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 the word "Observation" is replaced by "observation" and the words "Municipality Development Plan" shall be replaced by the plan for integrated development of the municipality. 4. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5 the words the Municipal Development Plan is replaced by the plan for integrated development of the municipality. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u84	I shall put to the vote the text of § 22 in the version of the Commission, § 23 and § 25 in the version of the importer, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 104 MPs: for 102, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u85	Under § 25, there is a proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by Dora Yankova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) point 2 is amended as follows: "2." preparation and update of the National Concept of Regional and Space Development and of the integrated territorial strategies for the development of the regions for planning at level 2; (b) c. 3 after the words the European Union is added to the International Financial Sources. (c) point 4 is repealed; (d) points 5 and 6 are amended as follows: It's five o'clock. carrying out monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of the National Concept of Regional and Space Development and of the integrated territorial strategies for development of the regions for planning at level 2; 6. providing a communication strategy of the regional development policy. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The preparation, update, monitoring and evaluation of the plans for integrated development of municipalities shall be financed by the budgets of the municipalities concerned and/or by means of funds from the European Union funds and other financial sources, and the mayors of municipalities shall each year plan the necessary financial resources for that purpose. 3. The creation of para. 3: Each year the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works as a competent authority for the development of the documents under art. 8, para. 2, p. 1 and 2, it plans the necessary financial resources for the implementation of the development, update, monitoring and evaluation activities under the budgetary procedure. The funds shall be provided in accordance with the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for the relevant year and/or through the funds of the European Union and other financial sources. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u86	I specifically do not ask if there are anyone who is willing to speak, but I hope you will give a strong signal if there are any. I shall put to the vote § 25 in the version of the Commission, § 26 by importer with support from the Commission and § 27 also supported by the Commission. Vote 97 MPs: 91, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u87	Under § 28, there is a proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Dora Yankova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 Article 31 is amended as follows: Art. 31. (1) The monitoring of the implementation of the National Concept of Regional and Space Development shall be carried out on the basis of the results of the monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of the integrated territorial strategies for the development of the Level 2 planning regions and the plans for the integrated development of municipalities. (2) The monitoring of the implementation of integrated territorial development strategies for level 2 planning regions and the plans for integrated development of municipalities shall be carried out under conditions and in order laid down by the rules for implementing the law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 35: .............................................................................. Chapter "Species of spatial development" with art. 38, 39 and 40 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u88	I shall put to the vote § 28 in the version of the Commission; paragraphs 29, 30, 31, 32, 33 and 34 by text of the importer supported by the Commission; and § 35, supported by the Commission, but edited by it. Vote 92 MPs: 86, none, abstention 6. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u89	Under § 36, there is a proposal from the National Representative Iskren Veselinov, made in accordance with Article 36. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 36: ................................ 36.................................................. Paragraph 1 of the Additional provision makes the following amendments and additions: 1. point 1 is amended as follows: "1." This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. 2. Point 3 is repealed. 3. point 4 is amended as follows: "4." "Operational programmes' are documents containing the state's strategy in certain policy areas through which the Cohesion Policy of the European Union is implemented. 4. Points 6 "13" shall be repealed. 5. They're creating a t. 15 and 16: ..15. "Sectorial policies" are a collection of principles and actions that affect certain sectors of government, such as transport, environment, energy, economy, health, education, social services, culture, tourism, housing policy and others. 16. "Transitional regions' are territories (level 3 areas), land- or water-bound areas with a neighbouring Member State of the European Union, or with a third country at the external borders of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u90	I shall put to the vote § 36 in the version of the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 83, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u91	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 37. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 38. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 39. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 40. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 41. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 42. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 43. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 44. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 45.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u92	Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I specifically refer to the provisions of § 38, which, in one way or another, as stated in the text, revokes the need to assess both regional development strategies 2014-2020 and regional strategies 2014-2020 without carrying out a follow-up assessment. We're on our way, and maybe for the most part, the law has already been passed. A whole new way of sealing and realising regional policies is being made, but ultimately we will not understand what progress has been made, are there any progress on these strategies that have been in place in the period 2014 - 2020, so it is necessary that you do not support the provisions of § 38 in order to gain an idea and a complete picture of what has happened under these strategies, and the same on the basis of the analysis that may be done by them, will serve for the next programming period. Otherwise, everything that we have adopted so far becomes meaningless, that is, we are leaving in an entirely new programming period, with an entirely new law, without knowing what was produced in the last period. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u94	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. So you're suggesting that we vote separately § 38?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u95	That's right, § 38 separately.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u96	That's right, yes. Any objections? I can't see. Then I suggest we make three votes so it's clear. First, I put to the vote the name of the section of the Commission; and § 37, also supported by the Commission. Vote 97 MPs: 86 against 1, abstention 10. The proposals have been accepted. I shall put to the vote § 38, supported by the Commission. Vote 101 MPs: 82 against 9, abstention 10. The proposal has been accepted, that is, the paragraph has been adopted. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44 and 45 by importer supported by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 78 against 6, abstention 9. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u97	Under § 46, there is a proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Dora Yankova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 46: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In the Water Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10c, para. 1, t. 1 the words the Municipal Development Plan and the programme for the implementation of the municipal development plan are replaced by the plan for integrated development of the municipality and the programme for its implementation. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 149, para. 2 the words the regional development plans are replaced by the territorial development strategies of the regions for planning at level 2 Under § 47, there is a proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Dora Yankova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 47: ss ss s s s s s In the Law on Energy Efficiency (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 12, para. 3 the words The development plans for the regions concerned are replaced by the territorial development strategies for the regions concerned for planning at level 2
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u98	I propose that we vote on these two paragraphs - 46 and 47 - in the version of the Commission. Voted 103 MPs: 95, no objection, abstention 8. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u99	Under § 48, there is a proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Dora Yankova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 48: ............... 48............................................................... The Law on Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 19th para. 1 in the text before t. 1 words The regional development plans shall be replaced by the territorial development strategies of the regions for planning at level 2 The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 49. According to § 50, there is a proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Dora Yankova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 50: .................................................................................. In the Law on Cultural Heritage (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 2 the words "planning areas' shall be replaced by "level 2 planning areas'; (b) in para. 3 the words "planning area' shall be replaced by the "planning area' of level 2'. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 3 in the main text, the words "planning economic areas' shall be replaced by "level 2 planning regions'; (b) in para. 5 the words "planning economic area' shall be replaced by "planning area of level 2'. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 81, para. 3 the words the Municipal Development Plans are replaced by the Plans for Integrated Development of the Municipalities.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u100	I shall put to the vote § 48 in the version of the Commission; § 49 by importer, supported by the Commission, and § 50 by the version of the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: 98, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u101	Under § 51, there is a proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Dora Yankova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal and propose the following version of § 51: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Vocational Education and Training (prom., SG No. ...), in art. 14a, para. 3 the words with the strategies, forecasts, programmes and plans for the development of the area concerned and the municipality shall be replaced by the territorial strategies for the development of the regions for planning at level 2 and the plans for integrated development of the municipalities concerned and the words with the national strategies, forecasts, programmes and development plans shall be replaced by the National Concept of Regional and Space Development and Strategies and Programmes at national level. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 52. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 53.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u102	I say we vote on these three paragraphs. I shall put to the vote § 51 in the version of the Commission, paragraphs 52 and 53, in accordance with the text of the importer supported by the Commission. Vote 98 MPs: 96, none, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u103	Under § 54, there is a proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Dora Yankova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 54: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Agricultural Support Act (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 14, para. 2, p. 4 words The regional development plans shall be replaced by the territorial development strategies of the regions for planning at level 2 The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 55: ........... 55....................................................................... The implementing rules of the law shall be brought into line with this law within 6 months of its entry into force. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 56.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u104	I shall put to the vote § 54 in the version of the Commission, § 55 in the version of the Commission and § 56 by importer with the support of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u105	Vote 95 MPs: for 93, no objection, abstention 2. The proposals have been passed, and with that, the Law. Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions concerning the period from 21 February to 27 February 2020 from: - MPs Georgi Gokov and Dragomir Stoynev to Mariana Nikolova, Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy, on the policy of the Bulgarian Presidency for guaranteeing the labour rights of Bulgarian workers and employees in the context of the started trilateral talks aimed at negotiating measures for reforms in key areas. Response should be made in plenary on 6 March 2020; - National Representative Georgi Yordanov and a group of MPs at Kiril Ananiev, Minister of Health, concerning the personnel policy in the field of health. Response should be made in the plenary sitting on 6 March 2020. Colleagues, I'll give you the written answers a little later. Ms. Ekaterina Zaharieva, Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs, will answer a question from MP Christian Vigenin on the protection of the interests and rights of the Bulgarian ethnic community in Ukraine in the conduct of administrative and territorial reform in the country. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u106	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues! In Ukraine, administrative and territorial reform is to be carried out, which could lead to a violation of the administrative autonomy of the region with the greatest concentration of Bulgarians in the country. This, in turn, may have as a direct consequence the inability to use the Bulgarian language as administrative in the newly formed administrative territorial structures and, in the longer term, to a gradual loss of identity. This is why representatives of the organizations of the Bulgarians in Ukraine have been alerted, expecting support and assistance from the Bulgarian institutions. In this regard, I ask you to answer the following question: what action has the Ministry of Foreign Affairs taken or intends to take to protect the interests and rights of the Bulgarians in Ukraine in relation to the upcoming administrative and territorial reform in the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u107	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u108	Dear Madam President, dear Mr Vigenin, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to assure you that the Ministry and the Bulgarian Government are taking priority of the issue of the rights and interests of our compatriots in Ukraine, especially with regard not only to the ongoing administrative and territorial reform, you know, as well as to the study of the Bulgarian language and history. In fact, the procedure for this administrative and territorial reform, at all, has been going on for years. What is important, at least the information we have so far, is that the new administrative and territorial division will preserve the Odessa region in its current borders, but will significantly reduce the areas of which it is composed. The established norm for the number of population of the new districts, according to the new Ukrainian Decentralisation Law, should not number less than 150 thousand people. This could become a major obstacle to the preservation of the Bolgrad region, as the population currently there is 70,000 people. It is important for us not to allow the breakdown of the Bolgrad region and the inclusion of Bulgarian municipalities into settlements dominated by other ethnic groups, which will also lead to the dissolution of the ethnic identity of the Bulgarian national minority in Ukraine. According to our information, the new administrative and territorial reform in Ukraine provides for the division of this region into two united territorial municipalities/gromadi "Balgradska and Kubeyska." As is well known, Bolgrad is the proven cultural capital of the Bulgarians in Ukraine, and the second municipality has the center of the village of Kubei. It is a typical Bulgarian village from the region, the birthplace of a number of patriotic Bulgarians, including the prominent Bulgarian scholar Alexander Todorov Balabanov. It is important to note that significant legislative processes are underway in Ukraine, including in the area of decentralisation, which are still subject to active discussion and have no final appearance and a clear impact on the fate of our compatriots. We are constantly monitoring the processes through the embassy, including maintaining the communities there that are divided. To be honest with you on this matter, some of them believe that what I have told you about the two municipalities will be better and will have no influence, but the MPs who are elected there have a different opinion. In this context, I would like to emphasise that for years we have raised the issue repeatedly, including at the highest level, and from the Ukrainian side have committed to preserving the territory of the Bolgrad region. The last conversation was on 31 January this year at the initiative of the Bulgarian country. Bulgarian Prime Minister Boyko Borisov held a telephone conversation on this issue with the President of Ukraine Zelenski, who reiterated that the rights and interests of the Bulgarian national minority in Ukraine will be preserved and protected. According to my program in May, I have an official visit to Kiev and to Odessa, where, of course, this will be one of the main topics. Out of the question, I would like to say that we have repeatedly, and Bulgaria is one of the first countries that has always expressed support for Ukraine, both in terms of its territorial integrity and in terms of its aspirations for closer cooperation with the European Union. In response to this support, we also expect appropriate well-intentioned actions from the Ukrainian state in the spirit of the values we share and the main issue of preserving the interests of the Bulgarian community there. I would point out that in terms of the language for which I answered a question, we not only managed to preserve the study of the Bulgarian language as a result of the reform there, but we also managed to increase the number of hours of study of the Bulgarian language, but also the number of subjects taught in Bulgarian in Ukrainian public schools, something that is very important. I can assure you that we are following this issue closely, both us and our services, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and at all levels, the last of which at the highest Prime Minister, President. The last call was January 31st of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u109	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zaharieva. A line, dear Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your reply, although I think it might have been a little more detailed. I'm glad you're following these questions, and they're not left unattended. I put it there because in the last few weeks, there have been different hearings, interviews, comments. Obviously the Bulgarians in the region are worried about what may follow. I believe that our main task as a state is to protect their rights here, you will have our full support if you act sufficiently focused and timely. Perhaps if you make a duplicate, I would be interested to know if you have commented on these issues with other EU member states, first of all, which have minorities there and perhaps this reform affects them too. It is always more successful when joint activities are conducted, not always a result is achieved. Specifically, in the case of Bulgaria, I also stress that we have been correct towards Ukraine from the very beginning and as a member state of the European Union, we have supported all European initiatives for the convergence of Bulgaria and Ukraine and Ukraine with the European Union respectively. The Bulgarian community in Ukraine is integrated, it is part of the Ukrainian state, has never had any separatists or other moods, so a really positive and correct attitude from the Ukrainian state to the Bulgarian community is important. From my point of view, this will determine for the future Bulgaria's attitude towards Ukraine and its desire to get closer and closer to the European Union. This topic will continue to be followed. I purposely wanted at this early stage and now to raise this topic in the Bulgarian Parliament. It was discussed in the Commission for Working with Bulgarians abroad, if necessary in the future we will raise the issue again. We hope that both you and the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad will provide us with periodic information on progress on this if we have to undertake our parliamentary initiatives. When institutions work together, it is easier to achieve results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u111	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. A hole?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u112	I agree with you. I don't have to take the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, a successful job today. Colleagues, before continuing with Minister Avramova, I will provide written answers from the ministers to the MPs. Written answers from: - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov to a question from the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Culture Boel Banov on a question from the National Representative Slavcho Atanasov; - Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the MPs Aleksandar Simov and Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the MPs Georgi Gokov, Alexander Paunov, Dora Yankova, Ivan Chenchev, Manol Genov, Rumen Georgiev and Nikolay Alexandrov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Lalo Kirilov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Daniela Daritkova; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Stefan Burgeev. We continue with questions to Mrs. Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. The first question to her is from the MP Evdokiya Asenova regarding the transmission state of one of the main water sources providing drinking water to the town of Radomir. You have the floor to ask your question, dear Mrs. Asenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u114	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, one of the main water sources supplying drinking water in the town of Radomir is in a transmission state and urgent repair of the water supply from the pump station The information belongs to the mayor of the municipality. The last 20 days have also seen an alarming trend of continuous shut-off of pumps due to water reduction in the water source. This is the water source that supplies the low zone of the town of Radomir and the district of Varba. According to the information of the manager of the water and water water supply company Pernik, the municipality had to introduce a water supply regime for part of the low zone of the town of Radomir. Engineering studies show that the water supply has shown over 40% losses and has been removed over 50 accidents in recent months. At the same time, since the middle of last year with the order of the mayor of the municipality, there is also a water supply regime for the high zone of the town of Radomir. All this gives us reason to believe that Radomir's water supply system is at risk. In this regard, my question to you is also: what will the Ministry of Regional Development do to prevent a water crisis in the municipality of Radomir?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Asenova. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Asenova, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! The town of Radomir has a population of 14,494 inhabitants and is supplied by several water sources serving three water supply areas of the city: high, medium and low. The high zone of Radomir is supplied by the captage of the Syrenaki with a capacity of 37 liters per second, which is located at the village of Stefanovo. If necessary, water has been submitted for this area until recently from the spring of the valley via pump station "Krapets" but only if authorised, entered in the monthly schedule for use of complex and significant dams, in particular for the dam "Studena" established by the Minister of Environment and Water. Currently, due to the introduced water supply regime in the town of Pernik, water supply from the dam is not allowed to Radomir. Due to a reduced flow rate of the water supply, the captage was introduced by order of the mayor of the municipality of Radomir from December 2019 by submitting water from 5,00 to 23,00 hours. The average area of Radomir is supplied by a captage of 50 liters per second. It also gives water to the low zone. The low area of Radomir, which also includes the villages of Nikolaevo and Bornarevo, is supplied mainly by karst spring of Opalovo with a capacity of 50 liters per second, which is located in the village of Koman. By pumping through steel plumbing with a diameter of phy 400 mm water is brought into a transitional tank. As a result of the prolonged droughts, the flow of the water source "Opalovo" has decreased, which is why the Mayor of Radomir's Order of February 2020 introduced a regime in part of the low zone "Varba" district, and in separate streets water is being fed every 24 hours. For the city of Radomir, gravitational water is also provided by a captage "Rast chapter" which has a low flow rate. By letter dated December 2019 Mr. Alexiev, Mayor of Radomir, informed us of a problem in the water supply of a high area of the city and asked for targeted financing for the delivery of pumps. In response, by means of an Agreement, at the end of 2019 the MRDP provided Radomir Municipality with 77 thousand. lv. to prevent the problem. By subsequent letters from January 2020 and from 10 February 2020, Mr. Alexiev informed us about the problem of the water supply from the pump station to the town of Radomir, also noting the need for its reconstruction in order to reduce water losses. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works immediately informed the Mayor of Radomir by letter dated 13 February 2020 that, given the prolonged drought and reduced water resources, the Ministry would support measures that would ensure sustainability of the water supply of settlements, including the city of Radomir. To this end, we informed Mr. Alexiev to provide detailed information about the sites needed to be implemented, about the existence of projects drawn up, respectively a building permit issued, and how much the construction works amount to. Information on the possibility of phased construction of sites prepared or conducted tender procedures would be useful. On February 17th, a letter was received from Mr. Emil Kostadinov, Chairman of the Association on Water and Water Supply and Sewerage, which raises the same question for repair, bringing water supply from the dam of Opalovo. I note that the above-mentioned response from MRDPD from 13 February to the mayor of Radomir Municipality was sent to all interested parties, including Mr. Kostadinov as governor. At the same time, I focus on the fact that within the framework of the projects prepared with European funds under the Operational Programme "Environment" and regional researches for the separate territory of the "Water Supply and Sewerage" and "Pernik," projects for the water infrastructure with agglomerations of more than 10 thousand equivalents were developed, which are respectively Pernik and the town of Radomir. The project for the town of Radomir also deals with a solution to the problem of the compromised water pipeline from the spring of Opalovo, proposing the construction of a new water supply from the captage of the town of Radomir, while during its construction it will be possible to supply water along even the outdated water pipeline from the spring of Opalovo. For this option there is a draft prepared and is included in the total amount, which will be financed mainly by European funds under the Operational Programme "Environment 2014 " 2020 ". I would like to inform you that on 21 August 2019 the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). A contract was signed with the Ministry of Environment and Waters for grants from the European funds for construction of water infrastructure in the separate territory served by the Ministry of Environment and Waters for the construction of water and water. The total cost of the project amounts to 104 million. 913 thousand. 130 BGN, including the financial assistance from the Operational Programme of the Environment at the amount of 78 million and own funding from the Water and Canal operator at the amount of 26 million. The following measures are provided for the city of Radomir: reconstruction of water pipes with a total length of 12,17 km; reconstruction and extension of a sewer network with a total length of 6,77 km; two sewer pump stations; new sewer pushers with a length of eight kilometers. In conclusion, I note that the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works will continue to assist the municipality of Radomir in improving water supply within its budgetary capabilities, expecting the municipality to provide us with the additional information requested in relation to the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u117	Thank you, Madam Secretary. You have the words for a line, Mrs. Asenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u118	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, unfortunately, from your response, the citizens of Radomir will not know how long they will be on the regimed water supply. Everything you have listed has been postponed in the future, and if I have understood you correctly, the municipal administration and the mayor of the municipality of Radomir have not yet sent the necessary documentation to the Ministry to provide funds to repair the water supply. At the same time, today it became clear that more and more settlements in the municipality were left without water, and for a long period of time. We already have the bitter experience of failing to finance a project with EU funds and I very much hope that the municipality of Radomir will be at the level of the expectations of the citizens of the municipality this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u119	Thank you. A hole? Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Asenova, just a few words about the way the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works grants funds for water projects. In the capital program of the Ministry there are limited funds. The demands from municipalities are much more than the possibilities of the Ministry, but we always prioritize and take into account the degree of necessity and urgency when we grant and conclude such agreements. To this end, we must obtain a project or a quantitative-value account from which it is clear what means and for what activities are needed in order to be able to take action to conclude an agreement with the municipalities, we conclude such agreements so that appropriate actions can be carried out, and for this purpose a contractor must be selected and a contractor that takes time. In this regard, municipalities usually prepare projects, place a public contract and issue a request for funds so that things can go in sync and not waste time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u121	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question to Minister Avramova is from the National Representative Dora Yankova on improving the status of third-class road III-863 Sokolovtsi Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u122	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister Avramova, my question is about improving the condition of road III-863 Sokolovtsi I also put this issue in Borisov's second government of Minister Pavlova, I also put it to Minister Nankov, I made a proposal for rehabilitation of this time and in the Budget Act. Unfortunately, the majority didn't support it. As I know that there is a list of projects that are priority in the Agency for Road Infrastructure, my question is related to this: what financial resource is envisaged for 2020 to rehabilitate this third-class road? As a member of parliament, the question has repeatedly been asked to me by the residents of these settlements, by the mayors of municipalities and mayors, by many entrepreneurs, cooperative actors who are active in this area, by representatives of the tourism industry, because in this localization of Smolyan municipality there are tourist initiatives and in parallel by forest entrepreneurs, representatives of the non-governmental sector. As a livelihood part of the initiatives of Banite municipality are related to mineral water, to the sanatorium, but for walking in such a place there is a need to have a good path. I do not wish the locals and residents in this area to draw conclusions that the government does not want to support them, seeing the development of road infrastructure where the state cares. I can't help but say that a lot of things have been done in Smolyan region, but it is this part of the area that is neglected, perhaps because of the lack of serious political lobbyists. If there is really no financial resource, then let's turn to the Prime Minister with signatures or otherwise so that he can seek out and draw attention. I would very much like you to answer this question positively.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Madam Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Yankova, road III-863 passes through the districts of Smolyan and Kardzhali. Sokolovtsi Department "Momchilovtsi" "Slaveinovo" "Mka Arda" "Baniata" "Stoyanovo" road intersection Stoyanovo. On the territory of Smolyan region is about 41 km long. There are two main problems that make it difficult and limit the possibilities for repairing the required volume to improve the performance of the area permanently. The first one is famous, and it's been around for years. This is the systemic lack of budget resources to maintain the Republican network, and the second is the length of the section that needs to be repaired. Forty kilometers is a serious challenge in planning budget expenditures for the year. Over the years, in separate sections of the third-class road, the Agency's ongoing repair and maintenance work has been carried out on the pavement. In the last two years alone, activities totaling 540 thousand have been carried out. lv. According to an expert assessment on 31 December 2019 the condition of the pavement of the road with a total length of 41.2 km is: 8 km The district road management Smolyan has offered the sections of the road in poor condition for preventive repair. In addition to you, Mrs. Yankova and Smolyan's regional governor is lobbying in this direction, which also proposes including the road in the Programme for the Support of the Road Infrastructure Agency in 2020. According to preliminary assessment of the preventive repair, it will take 10 million. Two hundred and twenty thousand. lv. with VAT. The proposals will be discussed. The final list of priority areas for 2020 has not yet been drawn up. The proposals will be discussed by the experts in the Agency "Travel Infrastructure" and when planning the repair activities it will be looking for the opportunity to allocate funds for the construction of the technology project and the gradual repair of the sections, starting from those in poor condition, where it is assumed that this condition needs to be urgently repaired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u125	Thank you, dear Minister. Line, Mrs. Yankova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u126	Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, in this way I have been answered by other ministers - a well-meaning, technological project, five years and in the end nothing - a little patching. I don't want you to go see how it's done in the spring. A little rain, a car with shovels, and that becomes sometimes a bigger problem. Yes, there are small sections such as politics in the part of the bells, when the holiday for St. George's Day is prepared. I would like to ask you, with my burden as Minister, to tell me at the moment how much money will be set aside for this year, so that as a first step this can be done at least in some of the bad sections. Next, the road should actually be recorded in the priority. If this does not happen, the government thus helps to drain the municipalities of small, unprotected, such as the Banite, and part of Smolyan municipality to bleed out. You must realize that it is in these areas where we are only on wheels that we need to finance roads above all else. And in the next place, you know, I don't want to be here two years ago I asked Minister Nankov, he answered me in the same way......................................................................................... My desire is for you as ministers to weigh, to make commitments, to know what and how will happen, and not to go through the pressures of the population. Therefore, on behalf of all these people that I represent them, and you represent them in your own way, because they choose us in the same way,... you are empowered as executive authority, and I demand that resources be found in the bad section, at least as a first step this year, to have finances to have asphalt.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Iankova, I agree with you that the lack of funds requires prioritization and we are forced to prioritize the roads in Bulgaria In fact, Smolyan District is one of the districts that is in the focus of the Road Infrastructure Agency. According to Operational Program "Regions in growth" a few lotts from Smolyan region are renovated from the road III-866 Mikhalkovo border District traffic, road III-866 border Regional road management Plovdiv "Krichim," lot 24 Smolyan I won't list the other sections that have been repaired. I undertake the commitment to prepare the list and prioritize the sites for this year both for the ongoing repair and maintenance of this item in the budget of the Agency....................... the road infrastructure...... and for the main repairs to make a meeting with you and to inform you of the opportunities and how much the amount is separated from the budget in order to start repairs in the worst parts of this republican road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u129	Thank you, dear Minister. We continue with the next question to Minister Avramova of the National Representative Smilyana Niva about the quality of drinking water in Haskovo. You have the floor, Ms. Niva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u130	Dear Minister, the alpha activity in the water in Haskovo was up to 9 times the norm. That's what the water supply's readings show. At the level of 0,1 bekerella per liter it reached 0.962 bekerella per liter on 29 March in water taken from Pompena station During the whole past year, water research was conducted on 18 February, 29 March, 1 April and 12 December. Since March with one exception, the samples have been very high activity. They are taken by wells in the Eastern zone, pump stations in Applekovo and Uzundzhovo, a cafe in It is not clear from the data provided whether water was taken from new wells, for which nearly 2 million were spent. lv. The data is not uploaded to the water company's website so that citizens can get acquainted with them. And here's what alpha radiation is. It occurs in the decay of unstable isotopes, of chemical elements, in the particular case of uranium. In the cells of living organisms, along with ionization, alpha radiation destroys tissue, causing various damage to living cells. Of all kinds of radiation, alpha radiation has the slightest penetrating ability, but the effects of exposure to living tissues with this kind of radiation are the most severe and significant compared to other types of radiation. Radiation radiation in the form of alpha radiation can occur when radioactive elements enter the body. For example, through air, water or food, these radioactive elements flow through the bloodstream throughout the body, accumulate in tissues and organs, giving them a powerful energy impact. As long as some of the radioactive isotopes emitting alpha-rays have long life, they are able to enter the body and cause serious changes and cause tissue and mutations to flow. The water in Haskovo has been banned from drinking and cooking since April 2017 due to increased amounts of uranium. The government has urgently granted 2 million. lv. for the construction of another eight wells. According to the Haskovo municipal administration, the last four wells were released in December last year, but the water is still banned from drinking and cooking. Dear Minister, what is the effect of the construction of the new facilities; why 2 million are spent. BGN, after the introduction of the new wells water in Haskovo remains unfit for use? Why hasn't VK Haskovo ordered the uranium in the water of the new wells?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u131	Thank you, Ms. Niva. You have the floor for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Nivva, presently the site of the additional emergency water supply of the town of Haskovo, financed by Decree No 91 of the Council of Ministers of 11 May 2017, through the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for 2017, has been completed and put into service. Eight pipe wells and two water mains were built for their inclusion in the water supply system. All sub-units are authorised to use and are transmitted to the "Water Supply and Sewerage" "Haskovo," for use, maintenance and operation. The results of the regional water and sewerage operator conducted in December "Water and sewerage" "Haskovo," monitoring of the quality of drinking water according to the indicator "uran" at nine points in the city, with four of the new wells included in the water supply system of the city, are good. The results were submitted to the Regional Health Inspectorate Haskovo on 17 December 2019. Since the end of January 2020, all new facilities work and the water from them enters the city's water supply network. On 5 February 2020, samples were taken from drinking water for control monitoring performed by state health control authorities. Depending on the results expected by the water operator in mid-March, the regional division of the Ministry of Health will give prescriptions regarding the use of water from the water network of the town of Haskovo. With regard to testing the quality of groundwater, which is within the competence of the Ministry of Environment and Water, I inform you that during regular monitoring of groundwater implemented in September 2019 at Haskovo, pumping station The eligible values of total alpha activity and uranium indicators, in accordance with Ordinance No 1 and Regulation No 9 of 2001 on water quality intended for drinking purposes, differ, given that raw water is treated, treated appropriately before reaching consumers. Improving indicators is also achieved by mixing water from different water sources. When the alpha activity control level is exceeded, action shall be taken to determine the indicative indicative dose. In view of the limited amount of groundwater in the area, as well as their poor quality, an initiative has been launched to seek surface water sources with good water quality indicators. In this regard, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works organizes and currently conducts a procedure for selecting a contractor with the subject of research on the possibilities for using the dam "Trakiets" for the supply of the town of Haskovo with drinking water. As a result, it is expected to gather and analyse information on water quality in the dam..Trakiets................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In addition, I inform you that in November 2019 a contract was concluded between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Managing Authority of the Operational Programme The regional pre-investment water supply survey will cover all settlements. As a result, the necessary investments will be prioritized to develop the water infrastructure to comply with the European drinking water directives, as well as to identify the sites that will be built with funding from the European Union funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u133	Thank you, Madam Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Ms. Niva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u134	Dear Minister! You just answered me that the samples carried out in December last year for the quality of drinking water in Haskovo are good, but you did not specify the parameters and whether these parameters meet the requirements of art. 7 of Ordinance No 9 on the quality of drinking water. And why do you think good parameters in the town of Haskovo continue to be prohibited for drinking and cooking? I didn't hear an answer to the question why no one alerted the public about the poor quality of water, about the dangerous radioactivity in it, and why the research was not uploaded to the water service site, so that citizens could have access to this data? Finally, who is responsible for this spent two million government money, since I realized that there was no result?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u135	Thank you, Ms. Niva. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Niva! All institutions in Bulgaria responsible for the quality of drinking water, both the Regional Health Inspectorate and the water operator, are quite responsible for the problem. I was shortly in the information I provided, I announced that on February 5th, samples were taken, and the results are expected in March. So there's no way to notify the population. It is good to take samples over a certain period of time, so that we can be sure of the qualities of water and then allow the population to use this water for drinking-bit needs, as you mentioned. So the month of March, when the samples come out, we will have more information that we can provide to you, as well as the Haskovo population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u137	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question to Minister Avramova is from the National Representative Nikolay Boshkov concerning the highway of Struma, Kresna Gorge. You have the floor, Mr. Boshkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, there are many issues related to the construction of the highway I'll try to synthesize them to three. My first question to you is: will this lot be built through the Kresna Gorge and when? My second question: Is funding secure for the construction of the so-called bloody section after Bulgaria has given up European funding recently? Does that mean we're losing the money we're assigned to the project? And it's reasonable to ask, have you been sanctioned? Madam Minister, you yourself said about a month ago that you would prepare a new option for the construction of the route, in line with the European Commission. Does this mean that the European Commission has not approved the so-called Eastern version that the local authorities in Kresna, the residents and last but not least the NGOs are protesting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u139	Thank you, dear Mr. Boshkov. You have the floor for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u140	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Boshkov! On 15 January this year, the Bulgarian country informed the European Commission of its decision to withdraw the application form for the financing of Lot 3 "2" "Crupnik "Kresna" from the European Union Cohesion Fund, which was submitted for approval on 9 August 2019. The withdrawal of the application form is neither a withdrawal from the project nor a withdrawal from European funding. It is related to the implementation of the European Commission's recommendations to reduce the impact of increasing environmental traffic. We are continuing the work on the section of the European Commission and the recently adopted European Green Pact. The European Commission welcomes the commitment made by Bulgaria by the end of 2020 to carry out a series of mitigating measures to reduce the impact on sites of Natura 2000. There is no new draft for this section, and this has not been stated either by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works or by the Road Infrastructure Agency. We are continuing work on the selected Eastern variant of route G10.50 for which we have entered into force EIA Decision. The option is the most balanced solution in terms of protecting the environment, security and safety of residents, as well as from an economic point of view. You know that the project section through the Kresna Gorge will have two separate sails. What exists in the direction of the Tower will be rehabilitated and the other, in the direction of Sofia, will be built a whole new route. This year a series of measures will be implemented, which are already planned in the EIA Report in the rehabilitation of the existing route of the E-79 road, but they had to be implemented when a new sail was completed in the direction of Sofia. The change is in the sequence of planned activities. This year we are starting work on environmental measures to ensure full compliance with legal, technological, environmental aspects in European legislation. The application form for funding of the project from the Cohesion Fund will be submitted after the removal of the European Commission's comments, thus guaranteeing the financing and completion of the highway by European funds. The period in which we believe the section will be implemented through the Kresna Gorge is until mid-2027, namely to prepare the new sail in the direction of Sofia and to rehabilitate the existing route in the direction of the Tower. So we continue with the selection procedures, so that when we get the funding, we can be ready to build.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u141	Thank you, dear Minister. A line, dear Mr. Boshkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u142	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, you have answered some of my questions. But I want to assure you that the inhabitants of Kresna are one of the endangered species in the Kresna Gorge. Since you mentioned environmental organisations several times, on Monday, they protested outside the European Commission's office in Sofia. Do you know what conditions they put there and what answers were given to them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u143	Thank you, Mr. Boshkov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Boshkov! In my reply I gave detailed information that Bulgaria does not give up funding of this section of the road. The withdrawal of the application form is well thought out so that everything can be reconsidered and those actions that the European Commission considers to be priority in the Kresna Gorge are implemented. We have repeatedly said that besides nature, besides all the habitats it has in the Kresna Gorge, we are much more important to people who go this way and the victims on this road are in the focus of the government's attention. So our efforts will be to implement the project for a full highway from Sofia to the Tower so that you can travel safely. The safety of the road for us is the most important priority. And last but not least, you know that the option, which has been chosen, is repeatedly discussed at multiple meetings with experts, with residents. It has been selected as the most appropriate and this option has been prepared EIA. So we are continuing the work that is needed to carry out this last section of the highway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u145	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question to Minister Avramova is from the National Representative Smilyana Niva concerning problems with the stopped trucks of the highway "Maritsa" and their access to the Border Control Post "Captain Andreevo." Here you are, you have the floor, Ms. Niva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u146	Dear Minister! In relation to your reply to my question in the parliamentary control on 31 January this year on the occasion of the mileage queues of heavy-duty vehicles at the motorway of Maritsa (Maritsa) ahead of the Border Control Post (Captain Andreevo) you answered that the question will be resolved by rerouting these trucks to the old exit of the motorway to Captain Andreevo, known as the parking lot. The Svilengrad Municipal Council in its declaration strongly opposed this decision and supported the signatures of the local residents of the villages affected by this decision. The terrain under the pull-off area is 10 acres, with old, damaged and unimaginable outlets, without the necessary conditions for the purpose. Precautions are being created to limit the access of farmers to their land by the suspended trucks. From the road police sector, Haskovo also refused to agree on the project to open the road link. The locals are in readiness for civil disobedience at the moment when I asked the question to you, and there was such civil disobedience. My question is, how are you going to solve this situation?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u147	Thank you, dear Mrs. Niva. Madam Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u148	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Krasteva! On the occasion of the previous question concerning the construction of a truck parking lot at the Border Control Post..Captain Andreevo, and in particular are the financing and construction in an urgent order of the so-called parking lot, I have tried to explain and distinguish the responsibilities of the institutions, and I will repeat them again. The parking lots are commercial road sites whose function is the service of travelers and road vehicles. The initiative to build such a road site, including the provision of financial resources, is entirely in the hands of the person concerned, who, following preliminary examination of the situation in the area and according to the current legislation, could proceed to the realization of his investment intention. To this end, it has to go through a number of procedures and most of them are not directly related to the activities of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. As in my previous reply, I explained, the construction and operation of commercial road sites, of road links to them is of special use of roads within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 1 of the Additional Provisions of the Roads Act and subject to authorisation. It is only within the competence of the Road Infrastructure Agency to examine and agree on road connections projects of commercial road sites to Republican roads. Upon completion of the procedure, the Agency shall grant the relevant investor an authorisation for special use for the site. Since the problem with the formation of mileage queues of vehicles on the motorway..Maritsa. Before the area of the Border Control Post..Captain Andreevo. has existed for years, and lately even more has been sharpened, the Ministry and the Agency are looking for an opportunity to ease the situation according to their powers in the Law. At the end of last year, letters were received from the mayors of Svilengrad, Captain Andreevo, General and Chernodub with a request to open the staged link In this connection, a project for traffic organization for the road connection was developed "Generalovo" Motorway "Maritsa" at km 107+600 to road I 8 at km 377+740, which was sent for coordination to the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior "Haskovo." A negative opinion has been issued by the road police sector to open the road link. The Ministry and the Road Infrastructure Agency will comply with the opinion and the new organisation will not be implemented. In addition to increasing the crossing capacity of the border point, the majority view is to build a buffer parking as a sustainable measure for safe and smooth movement in the area. Currently, in the Road Infrastructure Agency are received: the investment plan for construction of a road parking lot in the village of Kapitan Andreevo from the consortium of the International Border Tyre Terminals and a transport plan for the property with identifier 36110.31.668, Kuchuk Chair locality, the village of Kapitan Andreevo, Svilengrad municipality, for an object: Road Commercial complex of the Motorway of Maritsa. To conclude, I would like to emphasise that the Agency is looking at as quickly as possible at all road connections projects to build a TIR parking lot in the Land of the village of Kapitan Andreevo, which are duly completed and meet the conditions laid down in the Regulation for special use of roads. Finding a solution related to the removal of mileage queues from the vehicles on the motorway "Maritsa" before the point of entry point area is not within the direct competence of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Road Infrastructure Agency, but we approach with responsibility and together with the other institutions involved we are making efforts to address this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u149	Thank you, Mrs Avramova. You have the floor for a line, Ms. Niva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u150	Dear Minister, in 24 hours around 2000 to 2500 road vehicles cross the Bulgarian-Turkish border. And now we have the mileage tails of heavy goods vehicles that go up to 15 kilometers. I heard from you just now that the Ministry is making efforts to resolve this issue through investment policy, but I believe that the answer presented by you and with regard to investment policy will not solve the issue, because I understand that you have offers from private individuals, which is not wrong to take part in solving this issue. However, the main commitment is that of the state, as the state solves the issue with the organisation of the movement. Yes, it is true that besides your ministry here, the Ministry of Interior, the Transport Ministry and all together must resolve this issue. But once again, there has been civil disobedience, and citizens will not tolerate the resolution and postponement during the time of this issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u151	Thank you, Ms. Niva. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u152	In addition, the State does not have any state or municipal terrains that it can use in the border crossing point area. Private investors who have submitted their requests to the Road Infrastructure Agency, which must issue them the permissions for special use of the roads, own the dekari, one of the proposals, I think was about 100 acres. In this case, we are looking for an opportunity, both we and the other competent institutions, to find a way to use the traffic of these private parking lots, which will be built in the border crossing area, so that they can be used to stay in traffic, as well as logistics and exit from the parking lot when the border crossing is released, so that the next vehicle can be served. So we are in a continuous dialogue with our colleagues and we are looking for a solution to the question of how we are organizing the use of this parking lot, which will be built one or two to solve the problem of staying on road vehicles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u153	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question to Minister Avramova is from the MPs Manol Genov, Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev about the scope of the Republican tol system, which includes roads, streets and boulevards within the municipality of Stolishka. Mr. Danchev, you have the floor to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u154	Dear Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, our question is, of course, related to this famous decision of the Council of Ministers from the end of 2018, which sets out the scope of the road network which falls under API control in relation to the wineries and which requires that road vehicles up to 3,5 tonnes be secured by an aggrieved sticker or electronic winemaker from the beginning of 2019. It is clear that thanks to the pressure that has been given to the government, including after yesterday's hearing of the Prime Minister, and yours, the issue is somewhat resolved, but for us as MPs it is an interest: when did you learn about this problem; when did this matter actually exist, and why did it happen just yesterday, literally, to resolve it, although the Prime Minister in early 2019 had ordered, I say ordered, the relations between municipalities and the Road Infrastructure Agency to be settled. You know that a year ago he had called the mayor of Sofia Mrs. Yordanka Fandakova and ordered the settlements around Sofia to be excluded from the scope of this wine system so that their residents could freely enter the center of Sofia. Therefore, if you could give us an explanation: since when do you really know about this problem and why have only now measures been taken to solve it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u155	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. You have the floor for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Genov, Mr. Svilensky and Mr. Danchev! In January 2019 the Road Infrastructure Agency has sent letters to the mayors of all municipalities in the country to determine the boundaries of the urbanised territories and update the planning plans, thus the municipalities will be responsible for maintaining and repairing the Republican roads passing through the urbanised territory and, accordingly, these sections will be exempted from an electronic wine for passing through them. In response to this letter, Sofia Municipality informed the Agency that it would form a working group to clarify the case and after a decision was made it would provide the necessary information about the boundaries of the urbanised territory of the municipality. You know that in 2029 Prime Minister Borisov said that all municipalities that want to free part of the roads within the municipality, take these roads and ensure their maintenance. In 2019 six municipalities submitted their requests for re-qualification of part of state road sections in municipal ones. In 2019 and the beginning of 2020, a lot of meetings and negotiations were held between Sofia Municipality and the Road Infrastructure Agency, a little more difficult negotiations on the fact that we are exempting part of these sections from the wine levy, but some of them the Road Infrastructure Agency is not willing to exempt from toll charges, as part of them is even transit traffic. In 2020, in the beginning, 11 road sections 152 km long were proposed by the Sofia Municipality to be released from an electronic tart and the municipality to bear the costs of maintenance of these sections. The road sections proposed by Sofia Municipality will not be exempt in full from a tol fee for vehicles above 3,5 tonnes. On 27 February 2020, by a decision of the Council of Ministers, changes were adopted to the list of Republican roads for which a fee for use of road infrastructure was collected. With the changes for 115 km of road sections around Sofia, including Sofia ring road and North speed tangent, no fee will be due. For information to the citizens I will list these sections: in the sections around Sofia are the sections: Sofia. "Vladaya," Sofia. "Dolni Bogrov " Gorni Bogrov "Eleshnitsa," Sofia "Prolesa village," the road from Sofia ring road to Novi Iskar. Winnetka will not be necessary for the road Sofia "Voluyak," "Kokalane," "Dolni Pasarel," "Sofia Ring Road" "Pancharevo," for the two third-class roads Sofia "bankya," as well as for the section of Sofia ring road in the area of the neighborhood "Suhodol" to the highway "Struma" at the road node for Malo Buchino. An agreement is to be signed between the Road Infrastructure Agency and Sofia Municipality, in which, apart from the list of participants from the Republican Road Network on the territory of the municipality, for which no wine will be needed, the financial conditions for the maintenance of these roads will also be specified. At yesterday's meeting of the Council of Ministers were adopted sections of the Republican Road Network on the territory of the municipality of Varna, which will be exempt from wine fees. The examination of documents from the working group in the Agency "Travel Infrastructure" for another 12 municipalities that have submitted their requests for the exemption from the wine levy and for the maintenance of the repair, maintenance and winter maintenance of these road sections is ongoing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u157	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. A line? You won't use it. We move on to the final question to Minister Avramova. The question from the National Representative Kolyo Milev is about the landslide in the area of the cave on road II-53 to the village of Byala, Municipality of Sliven. Here you go, Mr. Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u158	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, as you understand, my question is about the landslide in the area of the cave on road II-53 to the village of Byala, Municipality of Sliven. The extremely serious and dangerous state of Republican road II-53 in the area of Byala village, Sliven, in the area of the Cave, which has fallen due to landslide processes, continues to be in fact. My question to you is: at what stage is the construction procedure and when will the problem finally be solved? Thank you. PRESENT TSveta KARAYANCHEVA: Thank you, dear Mr. Milev. Madam Minister, please answer Mr. Milev's question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u159	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Milev, I would like to remind you again that the landslide at km 107+200 on the Republican road II-53 Elena The project proposal for financing, prevention and countering of landslide processes on the Republican road network phase 2 is submitted, part of which is the landslide of road II-53. The conclusion of an administrative contract for the provision of grant financial assistance between the Road Infrastructure Agency and the Managing Authority of the Operational Programme "Environment 2014" " 2020" is delayed due to a problem with the estrangement of one of the sites included in Phase 2 - namely an object with registration number GAB 29.6527.13. This is road I-4 Koritna "Bulgarian spring" "Mikre," road node Sevlievo "Sevlievo," Veliko Tarnovo "Omurtag" "Targovishte" from km 84+795 to km 84+905 and the impact from its southern side, which is an integral part of the project proposal. Once the alienation procedures have been completed, the approval procedure for the landslide and the conclusion of the contract will continue. At this stage, a technical project is being developed to strengthen the landslide of Republican road II-53 and a construction permit is expected to be issued within one month. The tender procedures for the selection of the contractor for construction and construction supervision of the site are announced: On 24 January 2020, tenders for the selection of a consultant service were opened and those for the selection of a contractor on 18 February 2020. Both committees are currently examining the submitted tenders. Meanwhile, the section between the village of Byala and the town of Sliven is visited daily by specialists of Regional Road Management The road section is signalled with the necessary road signs, a year-round limitation and a ban on the movement of motor vehicles over 10 tonnes from km 72+200 to km 112+550 is introduced, with a speed limit of 50 km per hour for the section itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u160	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mr. Milev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u161	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, what we heard today is a little more than what was in the fall. I am glad that the procedures after four months delay, are gradually moving and we have open offers for choice of performer. Unfortunately, if this is how the pace is going, we may not get there in the summer to choose a contractor if there are any appeals. This section is very important for the road that you mentioned and the inclusion of the Project in many other such sites where alienation is required, perhaps will slow down construction itself. By the New Year it was known that all estranged events on the road in the locality were decided, but now I understand that we are dependent on other sections along the Republican road. I would be happy if you would do everything possible to move much faster and in the spring to start construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u162	Thank you, dear Mr. Milev. We should thank Minister Avramova for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to the questions from the MPs to the Minister of Finance. He will answer a question from the MP Pavel Shopov about our country's entry into the Eurozone. Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u163	Dear Minister, honourable Members, honourable President! The issue of Bulgaria's entry into the Eurozone has been before the Bulgarian society for about ten years, and occasionally there is talk and sharpness, as happened the last time we adopted the amendments to the Bulgarian National Bank Act and about the course of the euro, which we will eventually enter the Union. To date, the issue has not been officially discussed with the mandate of the Bulgarian National Assembly. For me, it has always been perplexing that missions are being carried out, contacts with international financial institutions, other countries and their representative monetary council bodies without the Bulgarian representatives being authorized, without clear parameters for that to be met, because it is a constant practice for the Bulgarian National Assembly to give mandates on far less important topics. Very often these parameters are drawn up here in the Chamber and government representatives are given the appropriate authority. On this subject, it is commented on in all respects and often arbitrarily... with arguments.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Therefore, my questions are: are negotiations and consultations for the entry of the Republic of Bulgaria into the Eurozone and since when are they being held? What's the first government, who's the first finance minister to do it? Who are the institutions and authorised persons who are conducting these negotiations at the moment? What is the mandate and what powers are given by the relevant negotiating body for entry into the Eurozone? Please do not reply to me that these are negotiations that are being conducted, that these steps are being carried out almost by presumption and that we have entered the European Union and that this results, you see, our automatic entry into the Eurozone, because of course it is not!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u164	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. The Minister of Finance Mr. Vladislav Goranov will be in charge. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u165	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Shopov, the work on the future adoption of the euro dates back to the negotiations for Bulgaria's accession to the European Union. In the officially declared negotiating position and the additional information to it under Chapter XI, the Economic Monetary Union, since 2001, as well as with the pre-accession economic programmes of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2002 - 2004 and 2005 - 2007 - Bulgaria has made a commitment to membership in the Eurozone. In accordance with this commitment on 25 November 2004 an Agreement was signed between the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Bulgarian National Bank for the introduction of the euro in the Republic of Bulgaria. On the part of the Bulgarian government The Agreement was signed by the Minister of Finance in this mandate Milen Velchev and by the Bulgarian National Bank by the then governor Ivan Iskrov. The Agreement describes the policies and commitments that are followed in the process of introducing the euro in Bulgaria. Subsequently, the commitment to the future adoption of the single European currency has been reaffirmed in the accession treaty published in the Official Journal of the European Union of 21 June 2005, in force since 1 January 2007. A coordination council for Bulgaria's preparation for the future entry into the Eurozone was established with the Decree of the Council of Ministers No 168 of 3 July 2015. We must, however, bear in mind that in accordance with art. 105 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The Council of Ministers shall direct and implement internal and foreign policy in accordance with the Constitution and the laws, and in addition to art. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers and its administration are provided that the Council of Ministers is to guide and implement foreign and domestic policy on the basis of the country's management programme adopted by him. The Programme for the Management of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2017 - 2021 was adopted by Decision No 447 of the Council of Ministers of August 2017. In the Programme Bulgaria's accession to the Currency Mechanism II and the Eurozone was established as a priority in Chapter VI. On the text of the above and in accordance with the decision of the Council of Ministers of March 2018, the Minister of Finance is authorised to hold negotiations on the future accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to Currency Mechanism II. Decision No 429 of June 2018 approved a letter on the intention of the Republic of Bulgaria to participate in the Single Supervisory Mechanism by establishing close cooperation with the European Central Bank within the meaning of Regulation No 1024 of 2013 and the intention of the country to apply in the currency-cursion mechanism. The letter was sent officially on 29 June 2018 to the European partners and it sets out the specific commitments regarding the preparation of our economy for a smooth participation in the Monetary Mechanism II and in the mechanism for close cooperation under the banking union. Our letter received the political support of the Eurogroup and at the meeting of 12 July 2018, and then the countries of the Eurozone, the European Central Bank, the European Commission and Denmark, supported Bulgaria in its intention to join the Currency Mechanism II. I note that, according to the rules of the European Union, decisions to join a Member State in a Currency Mechanism II and subsequently to the Eurozone are taken in the form in which the Minister of Finance and Governor of the Central Banks of the Eurozone plus Denmark, which is currently the only country in ERM II. As a result of the intentions of the Republic of Bulgaria to join the Currency Mechanism II and the Banking Union by Decision No 611 of August 2018, the Council of Ministers approved an action plan for accession, including measures in response to the intentions of the Republic of Bulgaria to the Monetary Mechanism. It includes measures to strengthen the supervision framework in the banking sector, to improve the macro-cyclical framework and to strengthen supervision of it and the banking financial sector, to improve the insolvency framework, to strengthen the framework for combating money laundering, to modernise the governance framework of state enterprises, to ratify by the National Assembly of the Agreement on the transfer and mutual use of contributions to the Single Resolution Fund. By the end of last year, all the measures in the plan have been implemented. All information about this process is publicly available on the website of the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u166	Thank you, dear Minister. For two supplementary questions please come in, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u167	Dear Minister, as I suspected, things remain within the authority of the government and therefore what has been delegated and transferred as competences in relation to the Ministry of Finance. That happened a long time ago at this one point. I knew you'd come to this, but that's so long ago that things have changed a lot so far. On this basis, very abstract and very uncertain not obligation, but making some commitments, several governments are already building this policy in complete contradiction to what the Bulgarian citizens want, Mr. Minister. There was one last poll where 62% of Bulgarian citizens do not want to replace BGN with euros. On the part of BSP are 80%, colleagues from BSP, the disagreeable members of GERB disagree with only 55% and 18% are for adoption of the euro. The others aren't defined. Even liberal economists, whom I am not a fan of, of course, also give very good reason and are very strongly justified against the introduction of the euro. In this situation, no one has so far set up, and I think it is good that you do so to give a mandate and at the present time, in 2020, 15 years after those commitments that you claim to have taken, to finally find legitimacy in these actions. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] However, I have an additional question for you and I will end with this part of our debate: do you personally guarantee as a good macroeconomicist...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u168	Time, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u169	...and a finance minister that Bulgarian citizens will not suffer from the move from lev to euro? This is the main question that excites the Bulgarians. Other things that are put forward as arguments in favor are abstract and very uncertain. Answer this question specifically, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u170	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Please, Mr. Minister, answer in two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u171	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Shopov, in this parliamentary procedure I will hardly be able to convince you of the benefits of replacing the Bulgarian lev with euro, but we have already taken this decision with the commitment to a fixed exchange rate of BGN to the euro. For me this continues, by the way, is shared in the political programs of the majority of the system Bulgarian parties, that the move from lev to euro is an undeniable economic advantage with many positive effects, which I do not need to explain in the form of an answer. The very fact that in the Bulgarian Parliament without opposition was given a very clear and clear mandate for the participation of the representatives of the Bulgarian state authorities. In this case, the Minister of Finance and the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, for the only way in which they can defend a position in the formats in which decisions are made regarding ERM II. There is absolutely no threat to the savings of Bulgarian citizens, because at the moment we have a fixed exchange rate of BGN against the euro, under the current currency board. Bulgaria will leave the currency board only when it enters the Eurozone, and only with a rate of 1,95583 "rate with which Germany joined the euro." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u172	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Shopov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u173	Of course you won't convince me, Minister, that the Bulgarian citizens will not suffer their savings, that the prices of the goods will not go up and life will become more expensive. This has happened everywhere in all countries where this change from national currencies to euros took place. I'm a little worried about that when you talk about system parties. I am absolutely disagreeable with this term which parties are systematic, which are not systematic. This is an unnecessary argument. There are criteria for elected parties from the Bulgarian people who are in the National Assembly and those who are not. Perhaps some other criteria you mean about party systemity and insystemicity? This is a political issue, of course, and a political one. Here too colleagues from the BSP did not understand me in the debate about the Bulgarian National Bank, when I put the problem that there should, first, as a legal one, there is such a term in the law, that is to say preliminary, whether the issue of Bulgaria should be considered in the Eurozone or not. This is the first question that needs to be raised and dealt with. Then there is the other one, which was put in that debate about a month ago, about the ratio of the course of lev - euros when Bulgaria entered the Eurozone -......................................................................................... In fact, I have the suspicion and the feeling that this subject, this issue, this change in the Law has been introduced to create the only legitimate act so far. A reason to act, to work.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u174	Get it over with, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u175	Make a referendum. This is the best form for the Bulgarian people to be convinced. To have a debate this is what we at Attack will plead for in the future. At least ask the Bulgarian National Assembly for a mandate to be legitimate in these negotiations and to have a greater reason for getting better conditions for this very big change in society. This is not about a small and small matter, which today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, will undo the problem. This concerns a very big issue concerning Bulgarian sovereignty, of course, as long as it remains.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u176	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. The second question is from the MP Rumen Gechev about huge damage to the budget from uncollected fees from companies in the gambling business. Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u177	Dear Madam President, honourable Member Goranov, honourable Members! On 23 January this year the Prime Minister Mr. Borisov announced results of the verification of the Agency for State Financial Inspection in companies from the gambling business. He delivered data, I quote, that over 200 million. lv. they didn't enter the treasury because of different treatment of lottery operators. On 14 February this year, the State Gambling Commission imposed four acts on companies in the sector, amounting to a total of 700 million. BGN, and a day earlier the National Revenue Agency has secured in the Commercial Register shares of four companies of Mr. Bozhkov. It is obvious that because of your incompetence or even worse, with doubts of deliberate involvement, the state institutions, including those of your direct subjugation, the State Gaming Commission, the National Revenue Agency and the State Financial Inspection Agency, have for years assumed losses for the state budget of hundreds of millions of levs. In this regard, I ask you to answer the following related questions: on what date has the verification of the State Financial Inspection started in the companies whose data from her report was presented by Prime Minister Borisov? Based on what information and for what reason was this verification initiated? In the last five years, has the Agency for State Financial Inspection checked at all companies from this risk sector for budget revenue................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... What were the functions of the representative of the National Revenue Agency in the management of the State Gambling Commission? Given the enormous potential of the sector in question for providing significant revenue in the budget, the National Revenue Agency should have sent a highly qualified representative there. Why did he and the relevant units of the National Revenue Agency responsible for major taxpayers not react for years? Do you think this was due to incompetence, or was it deliberately done? On the website of the State Gambling Commission based on the legal documents is written: The State Gambling Commission is the aid authority of the Minister of Finance. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating. For the past five years, how have you been coordinating and overseeing the work of the State Gambling Commission? How do you assess your personnel policy in this institution? Have you co-ordinated with the representatives of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Economy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u178	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u179	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Gechev, I understand your thesis set out in the question to me, but it is false, wrongly structured and not supported by the standards of the Bulgarian legislation in force. The Gambling Act, no matter what it says on someone's site, does not provide for the Minister of Finance to monitor compliance with gambling legislation or to exercise control over proceedings carried out by the Commission, such as issuing, termination, revocation of licences and authorisations, acceptance of common mandatory requirements and rules, establishment of the amount of state fees due under the Law, implementation of administrative criminal liability and others. There is no legal basis to accept that the Minister of Finance has the powers under the Administrative Procedure Code of a superior administrative authority to decide matters within the competence of the Commission and to rule on contesting the Commission's administrative acts as there is no explicit legal authorisation required for this. The powers of the Minister of Finance under the Gambling Act are clearly outlined: appoint the composition of the Commission. 18; issues the statutory administrative acts provided by the Law for the implementation of the Gambling Act; proposes to the Council of Ministers the adoption of regulatory administrative acts on the implementation of the Gambling Act; agrees the draft regulation of the Minister of Youth and Sport for the definition of the terms and conditions for the provision and accounting of the means of maintenance, repair, reconstruction, complete renovation or creation of new sports facilities and/or sports facilities in state and municipal schools; approves a model declaration under art. 30, para. 6 for the declaration of fees under art. 30, para. 3 and 4; agrees the use of the revenues from the activities of the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer, established by the Minister of Youth and Sports; agrees the appointment and release by the Minister of Youth and Sports of the management bodies of the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer; allows destruction of the incompetent gaming and communication equipment taken or abandoned for the benefit of the State. The State Gambling Commission is an independent legal person of budget maintenance whose activity is organised and run by a President and is assisted by a general and specialised administration. Although it is situated as a secondary authorising officer to the budget of the Minister of Finance, it is a specialized state body of the executive, a central college body of the executive, for carrying out state supervision of gambling with functions and powers defined in the Law on Gambling and Controls under the implementation of the Law. The Chairman of the State Gambling Commission controls the overall activity of gambling, as well as the activities of production, import, distribution and service of gaming equipment. You're asking how I appreciate my personnel policy in this institution? As I pointed out earlier, in the exercise of my powers under art. 18, para. 1 of the Gambling Act the Minister of Finance appoints the composition of the Commission. The President is the choice of the Minister of Finance, but the other members are nominated by the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Economy, the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency and the Chairman of the State Agency. If we exclude the representative of the National Revenue Agency because it is from a structure to the Minister of Finance, then there were representatives in the Commission of three other institutions who could have, if they suspected that there was something wrong or if they had seen the emptiness in the Law, to alert their leaders. It is publicly known that since 3 February the State Gambling Commission has a completely new composition and has the difficult task of ensuring the normal functioning of the entire gambling sector under the highly compromised image of the institution. As regards the issues raised concerning the verification of the Agency for State Financial Inspection, it started on 3 January 2020 in the State Gambling Commission, not in legal persons operating under the Gambling Act. It was ordered by the Minister of Finance in connection with a signal received at the Ministry of Finance. By decree of 6 January 2020, a prosecutor's file on the description of the Special Prosecutor's Office was also commissioned to carry out a financial inspection by the State and Financial Control Agency of the State Gambling Commission. Regarding the question raised whether legal persons operating under the Gambling Act have been examined, I inform you that AFFIE does not have the power to carry out checks on commercial companies which do not fall within the scope of art. 4 of the State Financial Inspection Act. Only a State-owned enterprise is included in this scope. My conclusion from what I am familiar with so far about the way the Commission has worked, whether or not motivated for other reasons or not, the Commission has adopted rules proposed by the respective gambling organizers, which are completely contrary to the Gambling Act and do not contain even doubts in how to apply in any of the hypotheses of the existing art. 30, which regulates the way in which fees are imposed on the organisation of gambling.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u180	Thank you, dear Minister. Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u181	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Goranov, I don't envy you at all. First, the licenses of the gaming committees that you have issued write:...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... You appoint the President of the Commission and the Commission is with the Ministry of Finance. I am amazed that you say you have nothing to do with the Gambling Commission! Even if you had nothing in common, Minister, you are responsible for the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. What do you mean, five years, 700 million? lv. They're gone and you don't care? A minister of finance! You of the first 20 taxpayers must send them a five-time check of the year! Five years of gambling stacking up hundreds of millions of dollars without anyone from the state going and checking! And in the State Gaming Commission, they have closed both eyes for you personally, by the Ministry of Economy, by the DANS are inside, and so far not a single person has been punished! Did you at least fire the representative of the National Revenue Agency? What is this representative doing out there from the Bigwigs? Besides his third salary, does he get cards like this for spring, in millions? And upstairs, where are the bags going? Because I don't think anyone left them like that to steal from the Gambling Commission! Therefore, you have not made any effort as a person responsible for the treasury of the Republic of Bulgaria and left the whole sector alone. In addition, the last decree of the Council of Ministers on fees is dated 13 December, honourable Member! You brought it to the Council of Ministers! Well, when you're paying for the fees, don't you see what's in the budget of the state? In addition, an esteemed colleague with the best feelings! So, from the Prime Minister, it appears that the loss is 200 million. BGN, according to the assessment of what? To ADPI, who checks out the Gambling Commission! And then it went up to 500 million. lv. Now, to start with only a few companies of Mr. Bozhkov is 700 million. BGN, as you say!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u182	The question, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u183	What about the other companies? So there's no excuse here! The entire Bulgarian government is represented in the Gambling Committee. You haven't done anything, and you've deprived the budget revenues of schools, kindergartens, universities, investments, of 700 million so far. There's probably more. This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u184	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Mr. Secretary? We continue with the next issue, which is from the National Representative Georgi Gokov and a group of MPs on coordinated treatment against insects for the Danube municipalities. Here you are, Mr. Zarkov. You are one of the importers.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u185	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Yes, several MPs have asked this question. The common thing between us is that we are elected and we represent municipalities that border on the Danube and each year the same problem poisons people's lives. We are talking about the invasion every year of mosquitoes and other insects, potential vectors of viruses that can also affect the health of people in these cross-border areas between Bulgaria and Romania. Naturally, the causes of this problem are many. They are related both to the geographical situation and to the climatic conditions of humidity combined with optimal temperatures that can contribute to the multiplication of the populations of mosquitoes in the area. We understand the complexity of the problem. That is why we are making it, Minister, to you today, as well as to many of your colleagues, because one of the reasons for repeating this problem is the lack of coordination in the measures implemented to resolve it. We need coordination from different departments and ministries, on the one hand, but also coordination between Bulgaria and Romania, on the other. Any uncoordinated actions that each municipality tries to implement in itself are ineffective, cost a lot of money, spend public resources, and the problem pops up again and again. A complete optimization of the disinfecting process is required, it needs to be done in time. Therefore, my question to you is: will you also take action to achieve coordination, will funds be provided within justified time limits for this coordinated treatment against insects for Danube municipalities?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u186	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u187	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Zarkov, the problem is undoubtedly many years old, and this year we will try to solve it more in time and more adequately. I had several conversations with Mr. Mayor of Ruse Pencho Milkov, who, on behalf of the Association of Danube Municipalities, pointed out the question from the point of view not only of the coordination, but also of the I have confidence and we are in coordination with the Minister of Health that in the coming weeks, and we have already established a similar organisation between the Department of Health units for the award of a single procurement for resources and chemicals for the treatment of all 12 areas located or affected by the potential spread of mosquitoes, as a result of which dangers from Nile fever and other diseases that may be spread by these insects. I have confidence from Minister Ananiev "he will also participate in parliamentary control with a similar issue that the organization is underway and is adequate. As soon as the indicative estimates are ready, and they will be ready within a few days, we are prepared by the Committee on Disasters and Accidents in the part of the Prevention to provide resources for the budget of the Ministry of Health to be awarded and implemented as early as early as March. I also spoke to the mayor of Ruse about possible coordination measures with the other side. I think good communication between the mayors of the Bulgarian municipalities along the Danube River and their colleagues from the Romanian coast will help us in this direction as well. But, again, I have personally committed to this process with my colleague Ananiev. From the point of view of the resource, I have no concerns. From the point of view of the organization, I think that this year we will set a good example of how we can reverse this problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u188	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u189	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I am pleased with that answer. Indeed, the mayor of Ruse is active in this matter. As mayor of the largest and most populated municipality in the region, he is obliged to do so. The other mayors, regardless of their political power, are certainly also very active on this issue. So the coordination of three levels between municipalities, on the one hand, between ministries, on the other hand, and between the two border states -- Bulgaria and Romania -- is key. I hope that I also address you here not only as the Minister of Finance, but also as one of the most influential people in this cabinet, to monitor this process personally. Although we will continue to exert our parliamentary and friendly pressure on this matter and on other responsible ministers. With regard to the right moment, the truth is that the right time is now, because by the end of March, the first such action must be taken so that further attempts are not doomed. No one has any interest, all the more in the current situation with serious concerns about various types of diseases that worry the population, from those pictures that are carried every year on terraces that are blackened by mosquitoes, and even worse to people, men, women and children covered from head to to toe with insects. You can rely on both mayors and MPs from these areas to assist in taking timely, effective and sufficiently coordinated measures. Thank you for your answer. It satisfies us for now, but what we really expect from you are results.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u190	Mr. Secretary, will he have the back? No. We thank Minister Goranov for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We continue with questions to the Minister of Environment and Water Mr. Emil Dimitrov. Please, Mr. Minister, take your place. Question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov on the construction of a waste processing plant in Shumen municipality. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u191	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! This issue is related to the electoral area, which you were from before becoming a minister, of course. I hope for this reason that you will be more accurate and take the matter more into account than you should normally be. Dear Minister, my question is related to the following. The administration of the municipality of Shumen announced the intention of a private investor who wants to build a waste processing plant. That's what prompted me to ask the question. You know that the theme of waste has been extremely popular lately, and I do not think that to date it has dropped out, even more with the cases of foreign garbage imports and the tendency that Bulgaria will become a landfill not only of Europe but of the whole world. Shumen citizenship follows the subject with great interest. Already, due to the many ambiguities, there is also a petition against the construction of this plant. The society is goosebumps, and even more so, it is intended to be built in one of the noisy neighborhoods. So I hope that you will give us more accurate and detailed information about what is happening and whether this information has been entered into your office. Please answer me: has the Ministry of Environment and Water received information and its unit in Shumen what will be the capacity of this plant, what waste will be processed, what technology will it be working with, does it comply with our and European legislation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u192	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u193	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ivanov, in connection with the question, a check was carried out in the legal system of the Ministry of Environment and Water, where we found that there was no notification of an investment proposal for construction of a waste processing plant in Shumen municipality. There is no other information in the Ministry concerning the construction of such a plant. According to the requirements of the Environmental Protection Act for an investment proposal for the construction of a waste processing plant, the Minister of Environment and Water is the competent authority if the site is designated as a national object by an act of the Council of Ministers; it affects a territory controlled by two or more RIEWs or is located on the territory of reserves, national parks and maintained reserves; it implies a significant impact on the environment in the territory of another country. In other cases, the competent authority to rule under the Environmental Protection Act for the construction of a waste processing plant in the municipality of Shumen is the Director of RIEW Shoumen. On this occasion, we also requested information from the Regional Inspection, according to which, following an inspection in the system for the transmission and exchange of electronic documents, it was found that, at present, at RIEW, Shumen had not received any notification of an investment proposal for the construction of a waste processing law in Shumen Municipality, as of today, at 10:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u194	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u195	Thank you. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! The information you submitted to date that was up to date at 10:00 is somewhat encouraging Sumerians. However, I would like to ask you the following: since when does the municipal administration, and in particular the mayor of Shumen, seize the functions of RIEW? Because from the mayor's office and through a press conference with the contracting entities, i.e. with those who will build the plant, it is announced that such a plant will be built, such land has already been sold in one of the neighborhoods of Shumen Yesterday at a session also the mayor was very fiercely defending and explaining what will be built, how will this thing be built if you want I will give you, so as not to quote it from the stands, how incompetent and sloppy are all those who speak against this garbage factory, which will be built there, how vital it is. It puzzles me that the Ministry and your subordinates know nothing of this subject, and Shumen is already gathering a petition against it. Most of all, I would like to ask you because it was announced in public discussion, which should have been done by RIEW, and it was done by the municipality together with this investor, again unclear why it seized the functions of your ministry, that it would work on the Alengo technology, which would basically be applied at the Shumen plant and is currently being used by 20 enterprises, mainly in Mexico. Apparently, we're gonna take some Mexican frontal experience, and at least what I know about Mexico is living on a pile of trash they build houses on, and then every one of their residents uses that trash. It's very likely that this is meant for the noisy depot to inhabit it with someone, and he will start getting material from downstairs from his own house to build, because that's what I know from Mexico. If you can answer me: what is this technology Alego and why is it allowed for the municipal administration to seize the functions of your ministry and of your subordinates by RIEW? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u196	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u197	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I have told you that there is no proposal in our electronic system, and you are now asking me the possibility with you, about which you have information, whether it was actual or not, whether the technology was correct or not. You can have information every day. I have to guess who, where, when and why. For the principled position, it is nice to have a waste plant wherever there are regional landfills.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u198	Mr. Minister, these are samples from the media to read the media appearances of the people. [[Passing a folder of materials to Minister Emil Dimitrov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u199	We lived in parliament when you want a reference to what's in our records to ask me what's in the media. Thank you. The Ministry of Environment and Water will obviously adopt the media as well. My principle is that where there are regional depots, it is good to have a waste processing plant. Otherwise, everyone who opposes this plant should point out their courtyards and leave them there. There is still no waste technology, although many people who strike do not want to have depots, do not want to have waste, do not explain where to go. To go to their courtyards, but would their neighbors agree? We have a regional depot. This depot is nice to compost, process its waste, give it to burn and so on. It's very nice in one city to say: "I don't want to burn waste here! " - Well, keep it in the yard! They must be burned somewhere. It is therefore nice to combine several regional depots where there are such capacities, because they are very difficult to rebuild, and where there is one to use and absorb waste, to produce electricity or anything else. And most importantly, don't rush the depots that have been made for ten or fifteen years, and they've filled them for three, four, five, six years. You have something against this factory. All right, put 'em in your backyards, pile 'em up. If you don't like the factory as technology, as you think, when this plant comes, when this proposal comes, figure out another one, finance it, do it. We have nothing registered, but you want me to pronounce myself on this one thing that isn't there. I'm very sorry, but it's nice to have processing plants. They shall be carried out in accordance with the regulations. We don't have one yet. When he's requested, we'll take the attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u200	Thank you, dear Minister. There is a question from the National Representative Nikolay Ivanov about the waste stored in the cities of Vratsa and Miziya. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u201	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, first of all, I will start by saying that yesterday a very important project for the municipalities of Vratsa and Mezdra was launched with which the system of management of the two municipalities will undoubtedly be one of the most complete and most complex in the whole country. But along with this, especially in recent months, there are current problems. You know very well, and we also learned after media reports and publications, subsequently after checks by the Regional Environmental and Water Inspection, that on the territory of Vratsa, in particular in the cities of Vratsa and Miziya, are stored and waste is stored which are likely to be dangerous, or at least imports or storage thereof, or both are illegal. Undoubtedly, checks were carried out on the documentation of the origin of the waste, its contents and on the sites on which it was stored. The concerns of my fellow citizens are reasonable. Therefore, it is good, through your response, to answer the following questions through the parliamentary tribune: what are the findings of the checks on these cases? Are the importers and owners of waste and sites clear? Have they committed any violations? Is waste dangerous? And what have your employees at the Regional Environmental and Water Inspectorate taken at this time or will they do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u202	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u203	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ivanov, yesterday I attended a nice ceremony. We made a first crack at a new plant between Mezdra and Vratsa. There were also people who came and said, "We don't want waste under our windows. " - I don't know where to take it. We're making new power, we're opening a new factory, but some people come in with some posters, and they say, "We don't want any waste." And I don't know where to take these waste. Thank you at least that BSP has taken the right position this time, that it is good to have such factories. Regarding the waste that someone has imported into Bulgaria. On 4 and 6 January 2020 at RIEW Vratsa, checks were carried out on a storage area located in Vratsa, owned by the company "Prisma 1" Ltd., which found about 50 tonnes of unfit toner cases, which were stored since the beginning of December 2019. No permits or registration documents for carrying out waste shall be issued for the stock area inspected. Company "Prisma 1" Ltd. has rented out the warehouse area in question to the company "Recycla" Ltd. According to the documents provided for cross-border transport under Regulation EU 1013/2006, the company is the official company "Online service" and the beneficiary is the company "EcoRe" Ltd. According to the contract presented, the recipient of the waste is a company of the Republic of Bulgaria which is inadmissible under Regulation EC 1013/2006 because it is registered only as a trader and a waste broker and does not have a document under art. 35 of the Waste Management Act. It is recommended that the site be cleaned from the waste by handing them over to a licensed company. Due to non-compliance with the prescription, an act establishing an administrative infringement is to be drawn up. In addition, an act establishing the administrative infringement has been drawn up and a criminal order has been issued for carrying out activities with waste without available permits or registration document under the Waste Management Act imposing a penalty of 10 thousand. lv. The company "Prisma 1" Ltd, as owner of the site, has also established an act of administrative infringement for renting real estate for storage of waste toner cases of a company which does not have the necessary document for carrying out activities with waste under the Waste Management Act. A criminal order is pending. The waste recipient company is authorised to carry out activities with waste issued by RIEW Vratsa. On 17 January 2020 by RIEW Vratsa, an inspection of the company was carried out at the site of the company on the territory of the town of Miziya. An act establishing an administrative infringement has been issued and a criminal order has been issued for the transfer of waste to persons who do not have an authorisation, a complex permit or registration document under art. 35 of the Waste Management Act. A penalty of 10,000 has been imposed. lv. On 7 February 2020, a request was made to the company "Recycla" Ltd. to conduct a test of waste in order to establish the presence or absence of hazardous properties. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done. In the event that waste is found to have hazardous properties, this is an additional reason to consider transport illegal under Regulation 1013/2006 as it has been carried out with Annex 7 and not by notification and consent.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u204	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u205	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. The Regional Environmental and Water Inspection has undoubtedly taken action at this time in relation to these two cited cases. You know very well that there is a similar procedure, which similarly excites our public in Vratsa, in relation to the found likely hazardous chemicals in the former plant. However, in my opinion, the issue is without commenting on the internal affairs of the Regional Inspection, which you must resolve and make so that this team of people can really do their job responsibly and without any obstacles to the fact that it seems that communication between the Regional Inspection regarding the actions taken on these issues and the public has been compromised, and this also raises concerns, raises mistrust of actions. The other issue that remains to be resolved is the solution to the problem of the disposal of these waste, especially the waste that is in Vratsa, in the two problematic areas. This is expected of the Vratsa public to happen as soon as possible. Announcing your support for the control of waste management, which includes the management of waste by Bulgarian citizens and the control of imports, I believe that the actions of your regional inspections are extremely important for the improvement of this control and improvement as a whole of the problem of waste management in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u206	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? No. We continue with the next question by the National Representative Daniela Dimitrova on the closure and recultivation of the old municipal landfills for municipal waste in Dobrich district. Here you go, Mrs. Dimitrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! On 21 March 2015 a regional landfill for non-hazardous waste was officially opened, built as a project No DIR-5112122-18-31 The depot serves nine municipalities in Northeastern Bulgaria. The new facility includes equipment and sites for treatment, recycling and disposal of non-hazardous waste. The depot has a useful area of 217 hectares and the planned service period is 30 years. The scope of the project includes the eight municipalities of Dobrich district with 215 settlements, including six cities, and Nikola Kozlevo municipality of Shumen region with 11 villages. In addition to the regional waste depot at the village of Stojeer, overloading waste stations were built in Balchik and Tervel. In this regard, my questions are: at what stage are the closure and rehabilitation of the old municipal landfills for municipal waste on the territory of the municipalities that the new facility serves? Is the funding available for this line also available? Are there any unregulated waste depots established on the territory of Dobrich district? Are they stored in the territory of Dobrich district of waste imported from other countries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u208	Thank you, dear Mrs. Dimitrova. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u209	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Dimitrova! The country no longer operates depots that do not comply with the regulatory requirements, as was followed by the agreed deadline with the European Commission by 31 December 2017, which prevented a new criminal procedure and huge sanctions against our country. The Ministry of Environment and Water assists municipalities in fulfilling their obligation to close and reclamate the old municipal depots that do not meet the legal requirements. The means necessary to implement the reclamation projects shall be provided in a step-by-step manner. In 2019 more than 190 million were provided. lv. from the state budget and Operational Programme "Environment 2014" - 2020 "In order to complete the reconstruction of the landfill." Six municipal depots are available on the territory of Dobrich region, subject to closure and recultivation, namely: Balchik, General Toshevo, Kavarna, Krushare, Tervel and Shabla. The financing of the rehabilitation of the municipal depots of Balchik, Krushare and Shabla is provided by the Environmental Action Management Company The technical and biological reclamation of Balchik's depot has been completed and act 16. At the depot of the municipality of Krushare are carried out technical and first year biological reclamation. The technical reclamation of the yard of Shabla municipality is underway. The European Commission approved the proposed changes to the Operational Programme "Environment 2014 " 2020 " on 19 January 2019, providing the necessary means to implement the technical reconstruction of 58 landfills for non-hazardous waste. The three municipalities: Kavarna, General Toshevo and Tervel have submitted their project proposals within the specified deadline until 9 December 2019 and are currently under assessment. According to data from the Regional Inspectorate for Environment and Waters Varna, no unregulated landfills for waste have been established on the territory of Dobrich district in the event of the implemented by RIEW Varna, current and subsequent controls, no site is established on which waste is stored, subject to cross-border transport to Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u210	Thank you, dear Minister. Would you like the floor? No. Thank you. We move on to the next question by the National Representative Kolyo Milev on the measures taken by the Ministry of Environment and Waters to provide drinking water from the Dam of Asenovets for the town of Sliven. Here you go, Mr. Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u211	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Minister! My question is about the measures taken by the Ministry of Environment and Waters to provide drinking water from the Dam of Asenovets for the town of Sliven. Dear Minister, the town of Sliven is supplied with drinking water from two independent water sources, one of which is from the wells along the Tundzha river through pumps to common reservoirs, which is considerably cleaner than the later built mainly for industrial use dam. The same needs a treatment in a drinking water treatment plant that hasn't been completed yet. The purity of the drinking water in Sliven depends on the proper mixing in common tanks of these main water sources. My question to you is: how many months has the water supply been provided by the dam of Asenovets and is your established schedule for using water from the different water sources? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u212	Thank you, dear Mr. Milev. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u213	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Milev! The problem with this dam, we know it, we know it as long as they can, then people on the street so they don't pay the debts. In answer to your question, I am providing you with the following information: 22 million is needed for drinking and domestic water supply of Sliven. Cube. m water per year, with the supply of water is provided by The Water Company of the Ministry of Water has been granted permits to take water from the Dam of Asenovets with an annual limit of up to 22 million and to take water from five other water supply systems located and using underground waters from the terrace of the Tundzha River with a total annual limit of 14 million. 772 cube. m, respectively the water supply systems Tundzha, Gergevets, Mechkarevo In addition to the dam, you can see that you have five other systems from which you can be supplied, but priority is, of course, if only from the dam, pressuredly, that it is cheaper. Asenovets Reservoir is a one-year equalizer and the registered inflow in the dam in 2019 is 14.07 million. Cube. M, which is typical for a dry year, and for the same year the company used 22 million. 351 cube. m water from the dam without using alternative water sources. In other words, last year we have been rolling the dam continuously, without using alternatives, as a result of which this year the dam has a lower level. In the light of the declining volume of the dam in November 2019 the manager of the water supply and sewerage of the dam is informed about the need to take action to include alternative water supply from the underground water sources listed just now in order to limit the water consumption of the dam and prevent water crisis in the town of Sliven. In this regard, the monthly schedule for the use of the water from the Dam of Asenovetz began to gradually reduce the monthly limits and 1.8 million were allowed in December. Cube. In January, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Cube. In February, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Cube. m. The control of the Swimming Directorate has found that there are no limits violations until January 2020 inclusive. As of 19 February 2020, Asenovets Dam has a volume of 7 million. 898 cube. m. The registered inflow for January is 0,209, which is three times less than the forecast inflow for a very dry year. It is filled much smoother and with a much smaller flow rate than it is emptied. The water supply and sewerage of Sliven Ltd. and the Municipality of Sliven is recommended to provide additional quantities for drinking water supply of the town of Sliven to take urgent action on reconstruction and inclusion in operation of the river water capture of the river Koleshnitsa, in which according to the data of the water tank runs between 346 and 500 liters per second. This is an opportunity for your city to restore water use, which was used years ago before the dam was built. When analyzing an inflow in 2010, typical for a very dry year and when used by the dam of the waters with a monthly limit up to 0,500 cubic. m, the water supply will be provided for more than 12 months. If we release half a million a month, you'll have for a whole year if you turn on the pumps. During this period, the remaining quantity required for the drinking-bit water supply of Sliven should be provided by alternative underground water sources.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u214	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u215	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! We have all learned that there is no discipline in the work of the Water and Water Department Sliven. It is true that there are many drilling wells, many opportunities to use clean water along the river Tundzha, but there is also a lot of electricity being spent there. And in order not to spend this electricity and save money, the citizens of Sliven are poisoned with water from the dam "Asenovets" and reached the critical minimum, which is approaching 6 million. Cubic. You say there are now seven and something that is already a problem. And I ask you: What measures will you take, of course, with the Regional Ministry, to comply with the schedules that you validate? And what is said to be so many water sources and so much water that we can hope for old water sources from the Koleshnitsa River and others, I think that at the moment we do not stand on the agenda, but we should turn to discipline in terms of water consumption and not writing large leaks, and taking measures to prevent its leakage, as well as the fastest movement and completion of the drinking water treatment plant, which will allow Sliven to drink cleaner water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u216	Thank you, dear Mr. Milev. You have the floor for the back, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Milev, that's right. We've cleared half a million so it can last a year. We don't know how it's gonna be next year. We don't want to leave Sliven's people without drinking water. Also, Sliven is a slightly more special city there the economy does not use the resources of the water supply, so there is nothing to limit. If, in other places, like Pernik and others, we have stopped the factories, we give only for drinking-bit, so that people can bathe, but nothing else for technological purposes, in Sliven this measure could not work, as they already have self water supply. So we have ordered the Tundzha, Gergevets, Mechkarevo, the left terrace, the Mechkarevo, the right, and the nursery to be used the pumps and to supplement, that is, we give 500, the rest to a million and 800 to be submitted by these pumps. You know that the dam itself has three diversions, which through a camera fill the dam itself and can very accurately calculate the flow in the dam. At the moment when we allowed half a million dollars to be given each month so that we could help the water not to accumulate debts, the flow turned out to increase sharply, tenfold, which, to some extent, raises doubts at once so much to start running in the dam. But anyway, we're in control, and at this point, we haven't noticed any huge differences. What I can tell you is that if the water supply is fed an average of 800.8 million per month, and the rest provides it with its own pumps, the city could last a whole year. The problem is that you want, if you can, and more. You want, if possible, the dam for three months, for five months, for six months to be drained and then turn on the pumps. The problem is the plumbing itself that when it turns on the pumps, it accumulates debts. This is a problem for pricing. In fact, they get the water at a more expensive price, from which they have the opportunity to sell it to the citizens. So the problem is complex. We're gonna keep the dam in this part so it can last a whole year, and the rest has to be through all these diversions and plumbing, including underground, with which you can operate. And this river Koseshnitza, these liters do not need to supplement the city's system because you have many losses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u218	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the next question by the National Representative Nikolay Tishev about the amount of drinking water in the Dam..Kamchia............................... and the water network in the municipality of Burgas. You're welcome to develop your question, Mr. Tishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u219	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! In recent weeks, a number of articles have appeared in regional and national media to reduce the amount of water in the dam. Given that there is a summer tourist season in which water consumption increases in the region, a number of concerns arise among the residents of Burgas region. And on that note, I have a few questions. What is the required volume of the dam needed for the normal water supply of Burgas and Varna? What is the available net volume at the moment and how long will it take, as well as what was the available net volume of the dam in February 2019, i.e. a year ago? Is water being used by the dam for industrial use, as well as the percentage of loss of drinking water in the water supply network of the municipality of Bourgas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u220	Thank you, dear Mr. Tishev. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u221	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Tishev, in answer to your questions, I inform you the following: the Dam is a complex and significant dam included in Annex No 1 of the Water Act and its use of water is carried out through annual and monthly schedules, with which water is distributed between the holders of permits for water collection. In accordance with the permits issued by the dam "Kamchia" Water is used for drinking-bit water supply with allowed annual limits as follows: "Supplied water supply and sewerage" Ltd., Burgas city up to 61 million. Cube. M per year; Water supply and sewerage up to 68,9, The annual schedule shall be drawn up for three scenarios: in case of wet cover.50, dry.75, and very dry year.95. The expected forecast inflow for the year according to the development of NIMH is respectively: 37,67 million. Cube. M for a very dry year with 95% collateralisation; 83,05 million Cube. For a dry year with collateralisation 75% and 155,26 million Cube. m per year for an average humidity year with 50% collateralisation. The volume available in the dam as of 28 February 2020 is 151,538 million. Cube. m water, or with a percentage fill of 64,88. Given that the dead volume of the dam is 49.90 million. Cube. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Cube. m. In comparison, by 28 February 2019 the available volume was 196,658 cubic. m, or 84,2% relative to the total volume. The dam has a drought, it's emptying out. In meeting the demands of the water supply water supply of 100 million. Cube. A year's water in the dam will last 24 months. There is no use of water for industrial use from the dam. The issue of the percentage losses of drinking water in the water supply network of Burgas municipality is not from the competence of the Ministry of Water, but we conduct a policy on water management at national and pool level, but we do not conduct industrial policy in the sector of Water and sewerage.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u222	Thank you, dear Minister. Would you like the word for a line, Mr. Tishev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u223	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I was really hoping for a slightly more positive answer. It turns out that compared to one year, i.e. the same time last year, the dam was practically twice as full as it is now. My reply will be in the form of a call to you: watch, you said that there are schedules drawn up, but please monitor the level of the dam, as I also pointed out in the question, sharply increases drinking water consumption during the summer. Mostly because of the resorts on the territory of Burgas region, most of all, of course, Sunny Beach, which in summer becomes an average district center that and more. In relation to the last question I asked, I will probably have to ask it to the Minister of Regional Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u224	Thank you, dear Mr. Tishev. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u225	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Tishev, what's more detailed? It exits the dam, passes through the treatment plant, which is the largest after Sofia and goes to the two huge cities of Burgas and Varna in the northern and southern Black Sea coast, of Kiteka is divided into two. There is another dam that in time has been abandoned and is not on the list under Annex 1 even irrelevant. He has an old communist name. I'm not gonna mention it so it doesn't turn out that I'm in politics. We know it "Tsonevo" but in fact the original name is quite different. Varna besides this dam is powered by Devnya. The Black Sea coast is also powered by "Yasna Polyana" dam, i.e. from Chernomorets down you have a dam, from Chernomorets up you use "Kamchia" dam. This year, in our schedules, we distribute the quantities just as they were used last year, and the estimate is to be able to reach for two years in 24 months from now. There have been huge desires to launch additional technological goals and technological needs for the pump treatment plant itself. We didn't let them. We solved quantities in exactly this volume as they were last year. The water will be enough, and the use of summer is more, we all know it. I hope you're not suggesting that we limit Sunny Beach summer. Everyone has to have one so we don't crash the tourist season. Burgas is powered by two dams, i.e. the South Black Sea coast uses two dams. The North also uses enough opportunities. However, alternative sources should also be used to a much greater extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u226	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the next question by the National Representative Manol Genov concerning unregulated waste water discharge and their leakage in the waters of the Maritsa river in the municipality of Stamboliiski. Here you are, Mr. Genov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u227	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. Minister, my question to you is about unauthorised discharge of waste water and their leakage into the Maritsa River on the territory of Stamboliiski municipality. For many years under Operational Program Stamboliyski municipality had built collectors, sewerage. However, several villages are to be included to it and to this treatment plant throughout the entire scheme of the municipality of Stamboliiski before the treatment plant there is a overflow so called number one. According to information from regional media, this overflow has a serious accident and the sewage from the municipality of Stamboliiski is directly leaking into the Maritsa River. Really the treatment plant does not purify because there are no waters to enter it. During this time, Mr. Minister, have you had any checks carried out by your services that control the waters? Is there any evidence, if such checks have been carried out, of the degree of contamination? Accordingly, according to the degree of pollution, have sanctions been imposed, fines? Have any other administrative measures been adopted in this direction? That's my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u228	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u229	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Genov, thank you for not saying at least this time that someone from the Swimming Directorate compromised this overflow because it would have been too much. We are talking about the same Swimming Directorate in Plovdiv. For the site of the Center system "Stamboliyski" of the town of Stamboliyski. [[Heckling]] Because I didn't come from Sofia to damage your overflow, and now you're asking me what's going on out there? For the site of the city of Stamboliyski City Waste Water treatment plant, there is a permit for use of water site for discharge of waste water in a surface water site with the owner of the Municipality of Stamboliiski from the Basin Directorate of the East-Belly Sea Region. The operator of the site is Water Supply and Sewerage. The site is included in the control plan of RIEW Plovdiv and is subject to mandatory control twice a year, on the basis of an order of the Minister of Environment and Water for monitoring the quality of waste water. In this regard, in November 2019, in the event of a planned inspection, we made them twice a year by experts of RIEW Plovdiv, of the treatment plant, in particular of a pre-arranged rainflower, which was found to be the discharge of unclean waste water in the Maritsa River, which is fully consistent with what you exported, which is a violation of the conditions for the discharge permit. The manager of VIK is given a prescription for taking technical measures to improve the situation of the overflow in order to stop the discharge of unpurified waste water in the river. On 5 February this year, in connection with a signal from residents of the town of Stamboliiski, a letter from the Police Department of Stamboliyski, about the leakage of waste water from the river Maritsa river, a joint inspection was carried out by experts of RIEW Plovdiv, the Swimming Directorate of Plovdiv, the Regional Laboratory of Plovdiv, and the Police Department of Stamboliyski. It is found that the discharge of unpurified waste water continues in the river. For the two violations of the Water Act, the administrative criminal procedure for the preparation of two acts of the manager of the river Maritsa has been initiated. On 11 February this year, a letter was received in the Inspection by the manager of the project, according to which there is funding for repair of the rain spill, and construction is expected to begin by the end of the month. A strict, subsequent control of the execution of the prescription will be carried out by RIEW.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u230	Thank you, dear Minister. Would you like a line? No. We move on to the next question by the MPs Dzhevdet Chakarov, Ahmed Ahmedov, Adlen Shevked, Errol Mehmed, Sevim Ali and Jayhan Ibramov about the environmentally friendly disposal of obsolete pesticides from the warehouse in the village of Zvinitsa, the municipality of Kardzhali. You're welcome to develop the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u231	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, it is public information and it is known that in 1984 in the village of Zvinitsa, Kardzhali, a pesticide warehouse was built in which in 1985 and in 2001 more than 105 tonnes of pesticides with expired expiry date were deposited. There was a promise, of course, that pesticides would be removed from this warehouse as early as 2004, but subsequently it turned out that the necessary funds could not be provided. A similar promise was then made in 2010 with the same result. In 2013 the warehouse was again promised to be included in the scope of the recently completed project "Echologised disposal of obsolete pesticides and other plant protection products with an expired expiry date', funded by the Bulgarian-Swiss Cooperation Programme, but this has not been done either. On 18 December 2019 at a meeting between the former Minister of Environment and Water Mr. Neno Dimov and the mayor of Kardzhali municipality with our participation, as well as with representatives of the village of Zvinitsa, he said that the warehouse in the village of Zvinitsa is included in the preliminary list for the current 2020 to solve the pesticide problem in the country to be financed by the POSOS and for which they are provided 5 million. lv. The public tension at the present time in the village of Zvinitsa, Mr. Minister, is large and the population is convinced that much of the emerging diseases, including various types of oncological diseases, as well as the frequent deaths in recent years, are directly related to the deposited pesticides in this warehouse. They have repeatedly insisted on taking strong measures to remove this warehouse from the village. We should note that there are problems with pesticides that also need quick solutions in the districts of Burgas, Lovech, Razgrad. In this regard, it is also our question to you: when will funding be provided for the environmentally friendly disposal of obsolete pesticides from the warehouse in the village of Zvinica, Kardzhali, and when will these pesticides actually be removed from the village? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u232	Thank you, dear Mr. Mehmed. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u233	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chakarov, Mr. Mehmed, Mr. Shevked, Mr. Mehmed, Mr. Ali, Mr. Ibryamov, I hope later in line, I can answer you more specifically about the Swiss program and what we do. I'll read you the question now. The project Eco-friendly disposal of end-of-life pesticides and other past-life plant protection products, implemented within the framework of the Bulgarian-Swiss Cooperation Programme, ended on 7 December 2019, as the Swiss partners had said. The designated by you in the village of Zvinitsa, municipality of Kardzhali is part of the warehouses that were included in the project. During the implementation of the Project in the warehouses, significantly higher quantities of pesticides were found than originally envisaged. It's all over the country, including there were buried underground. According to its core work within the Project, this is a requirement of donors from the Swiss side, it is the start of cleaning one warehouse to be completed before the work on the next is started. It is precisely the significantly larger amount of pesticides that hinders the processing and cleaning of all warehouses due to the depletion of financial resources. That's why the warehouse in the village of Zvinitsa wasn't cleaned. The project is closed, but the problem is serious, and it is in this connection that the work in the warehouses that were part of the project, but have not been cleaned, is decided to be financed by the PUPOS. The remaining warehouses are 84, including the main and spare warehouses of the Project, i.e. all identified warehouses at the start of the Bulgarian-Swiss program. In December 2019, on a proposal from the Minister of Environment and Water, it has been decided by the Management Board of the PPOOS in this 2020 to take action to award the cleaning activities of the remaining warehouses. The assignment will be made to the relevant companies. The amount of the financial resources to be provided by the PPOOS is 5 million. lv. with VAT. At present, analysis shall be carried out based on location status and the amount of waste in other warehouses. Based on this analysis and the available financial resources will be defined warehouses that fall within the scope of the order. According to the established practice of the first meeting of the Governing Council of the PPOA, the report of the enterprise's activities for the previous year, the business plan of the enterprise, the allocation of the budget for revenue, transfers and expenditure, as well as the public procurement plan for the current year shall be adopted. At the forthcoming meeting of the Governing Council, a Draft Public Procurement Plan for 2020 will be presented, discussed and voted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u234	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line for you, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u235	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! We from the high tribune of the National Assembly address our fellow citizens, whose municipalities, settlements have such pesticides, as was very correctly represented by colleague Errol Mehmed. On the basis of the information, Mr. Minister, which we have through the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, where the deputy is the mayor of Kardzhali Municipality Mr. Hassan Aziz, it is evident that there are many such pesticides in our country. I refer to Kardzhali District, Razgrad, Burgas, Lovech, Shumen and others. I would like to express our concern and not only concern and concern about the activities to be carried out so that these waste can be removed and disposed of from the territory of the municipalities concerned, that on a national scale. We thank you for the information you present to us. I would like to tell you that we are familiar, naturally, with the Bulgarian-Swiss programme and that it ended on 7 December 2019. In this respect, Mr. Minister, we are addressing you and the Ministry, which you manage and manage, and the policies that are being implemented there and the government to ensure that these waste is taken out and disposed of. As far as I know, it's going to happen, and it's happening out of the country by incinerating. I will allow myself to comment without having specific figures and estimates to myself that what you foresee and say as a financial framework of 5 million. BGN, which are foreseen, will hardly be enough for this activity. It is good to provide funds and not delay in time. I would ask you for a time frame and deadlines in which this could be done. In this regard, could you rely on the legislative authority where necessary for all Members of Parliament, including the members of our parliamentary group and the relevant regions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u236	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u237	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chakarov! Let's get this straight from 1984 are the storehouses, but there is a huge public intolerance at the moment. Until we started moving them out, everything was normal, but suddenly public intolerance became enormous. We've all eaten food treated with pesticides in the past, we all know that these warehouses sit for 30 years, some of them buried. And as soon as we started moving them out, could we move it any faster, but can we do it right now? We're trying to get all the warehouses started to finish them off. Of course we can't do everything at the same time. Of course we want to successfully complete the Swiss programme, verify costs and do, if possible, a second Bulgarian-Swiss programme. So we owe respect to those people who gave us money so that we can get rid of these pesticides. Cubes could hold out, but it's good for the storehouses to be cleaned out. With this extra five million, we're going to try to clean out those warehouses that have already started. You yourself know that there were some quantities, and when they went to export them, they turned out to be much more. Undoubtedly, this pesticide problem stands, and we will solve it. But if we have a second program, we will be able to do much more of all these warehouses that are so far. And now it's a race. Why my warehouse and not his, why his and not the third, why not immediately and why didn't you take so long? But in front of you, you, as you said from this high tribune, allow me to say three words only. When employees to process these pesticides went to these warehouses, they could not get into the premises themselves and put into the containers with which they would be transported to the West to destroy them, but they had to make temporary storages outside covered, closed accordingly. All of a sudden, there's this mass brocade going on, but you're making new warehouses, but you're bringing other people's pesticides, but what exactly are you doing? And you just had to keep the new containers from infecting themselves inside the middle, because they'll then, with their looks, travel to the West. And there's a struggle being created why did you move them there? And it's so they can transport by truck and board. Why did you take them to the warehouse? And it's so they can process, fill in the containers and go. And it just so happens that everywhere you've worked, they welcome you so you don't want to step in there again, let alone clean up. Of course, we will do our tasks as we should. And in conclusion, I apologize very much for the incinerators. We have two, we don't want to burn in Sofia, everyone else was abroad, we have one at the seaside. The strike immediately started in front of him. We don't want him to work either. If we could make it twice or three times as expensive as transport costs. Let us not interfere with one another in this work. And we want to help burn them all or destroy them and move them abroad. Thank you for your proposal for a legislative initiative. We need it, we have a cube frame to go abroad. They're set for 100 years, I doubt they'll make that much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u238	Thank you, dear Minister. And the last question remains about today's parliamentary control by the MPs Dzhevdet Chakarov regarding the criminal procedure against Bulgaria because of the Natura 2000 network. Here you are, Mr. Chakarov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u239	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! I will develop my present question, but I would like to say a few more words. Mr. Minister, we have addressed you to see a realistic time horizon and timing. We know very well that from today to tomorrow, that's not going to happen. But there are a lot of warehouses out there, and I don't want to disturb the public, so I'm just saying it to take measures that aren't even being guarded. There are many pesticides that need to be placed in the corresponding cubes. That is why we are really begging you and calling on you to do so in order to reassure our fellow citizens and to take all necessary measures because there is concern. Naturally, by exporting some, while others remain, to carry out this work, people are worried.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u240	You're doing a douche bag.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u241	On this matter. In December last year, it became clear from a report by the Court of Auditors that the European Commission has launched a criminal procedure against Bulgaria related to the construction of the Natura 2000 network. Unfortunately, the MOEW spared itself the publicity of this information at the time. The reason for the initiation of the penalty procedure is that the MoEW did not issue the necessary orders within the time limit for the announcement of a large part of the protected areas in Bulgaria. By 31 July 2019, the Minister of Ecology had to issue orders for the announcement of 211 protected zones of 341, approved by the European Commission as ecozones in Bulgaria. For most areas without a warrant, however, this period has expired. Due to the delay in the orders for the designation of protected areas, no regimes have been established for their protection, which is the reason for the initiation of the criminal procedure. In its report, the Court of Auditors found that there was a serious risk of a future expenditure of public financial resources due to a failure to meet the objectives of the European Union's environmental policy and that management of the Natura 2000 network for the protection of the environment and the local population is not yet effective. In this regard, my question to you is: what measures has the Ministry of Environment and Water taken so that this criminal procedure does not grow into a judicial procedure against our country? How many orders has the deadline already expired? Are there any orders that are already fully ready to sign, and if so, how many are and how are their signature going, at what time may the MOEW issue all the orders for which the time limit has already expired? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u242	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chakarov, in accordance with the commitments made by the European Commission, a document was developed for the purposes of the European Natura 2000 project by an international team of scientists of the Austrian Environment Agency, the Institute of Biodiversity and Ecosystem Research at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. The document is fully in line with the European Commission's guidelines, lays down the specific and specific objectives of the Natura 2000 network at three levels................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ It lays down the provisions for the designation of protected areas and provides guidance on the development of their management plans. In accordance with this document and the shortcomings referred to by the European Commission in the current content of the orders for declaring protected areas, the relevant changes to the texts of the prepared orders have been made so as to specify as fully as possible the objectives and priorities of conservation in each protected zone. I am far from thinking that the work in this Ministry starts with me, but because you asked the question in this way, the necessary organization was created to prepare and issue the orders for the announcement of protected areas under the order of the Biodiversity Act. The law was passed yesterday by the Council of Ministers and is to be submitted to the National Assembly. At present, the preparation of orders for the announcement of 91 protected areas for conservation of natural habitats is under way, for which the process of specifying their boundaries at property borders has been completed in accordance with the requirements of the Council of Ministers' decisions on the adoption of lists of protected areas. They are about to be published for public access. For the other protected areas, a process is under way to refine the boundaries in relation to the current property boundaries of the Cadastral Map and the Restored Property Map. The preparation of the text part of the projects and the orders for their announcement will begin after this process is completed. I've set it to happen as quickly as possible, but we're dependent on other institutions. This is in line with the current timetable of the European Commission, with the commitment to update it in May 2020. 216 orders for the announcement of protected areas for habitats for which the six-year period under the Habitats Directive and national law has already expired should be issued. In addition, 13 orders for the announcement of protected zones must be amended in order to declare already declared zones under the Birds Directive and as protected areas under the Habitats Directive, as the boundaries of the zones under both Directives coincide. For them, too, the six-year period has expired. It's all up to us to do. The period for announcing a total of 229 protected areas for habitats has expired since the Law was not adopted yesterday. I hope you understand, too. He's been waiting for a year, and he's been preparing for years before that. At present, there are no orders ready for official publication, as it has not passed the public consultation procedure on draft orders. We've already got a lot of orders. For the last two published for public access orders, the one-month period for submitting reasoned written opinions, objections and proposals on the prohibitions and restrictions of activities under orders shall expire on 29 February 2020. Under the Law, the orders for these two protected zones should be signed within one month. All orders for the announcement of the protected areas of the habitats for which the period has expired are to be issued by mid 2021. Regarding the question of the criminal procedure, I inform you that the procedure is currently in pre-trial form. An official notification letter was received at the beginning of last year. A position has been sent by Bulgaria. This is a horizontal procedure which the European Commission has launched against other Member States as well. The procedure is at a different stage against the individual countries, with a judgment given against Portugal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u244	Thank you, dear Minister. Would you like a line, Mr. Chakarov? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u245	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! It is, Minister, that there are very serious delays, as you find, as is the Court of Auditors' finding in the audit report on the Ministry of Environment and Water, that there is no strategic vision and vision for the development of modern environmental policies by the Ministry, unfortunately, in the field of conservation of biodiversity and the issue of these orders. My question to you would be basically what measures are being taken, but it is clear that measures are being taken. I wish you success in the name of our country. At the same time, I would like to point out to you that, with regard to the indicators at the end of 2018, they are below 65 or about 65% implemented. There has also been a serious risk regarding the suspension of payments on the third axis of conservation of biodiversity. In addition, relocation attempts have been made to redirect funds from this axis to the management of waste-related activities to the other axis. Given that there are huge details on this axis, they are even insufficient in view of the delay being realised, it is good, and I hope that there will be adequate and accelerated development of these measures and realizations so that these funds are not lost by the Operational Programme, but are realized as intended, essentially, so that these policies are at the heights that are within the European Union and modern world trends. I hope you'll work this out this way. Furthermore, the Green Pact of the European Union provides even for an extension of Europe's protected areas by 2015. We cannot be away from these processes. It is in all our interests to preserve the great biodiversity that we have in our country, on both directives for habitats and habitats. Moreover, with clear regimes for the protected areas concerned, there should be a balanced development in terms of economic realization, business and better living conditions of all of us in Bulgaria. I wish you success and we will monitor the implementation of these policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-28.u246	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. By thanking Minister Dimitrov for his participation in parliamentary control. And thank you, colleagues, for your presence and participation. The next session was March 4th, Wednesday 9:00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
