ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Since the Programme has already been voted on, we will vote on an addition to it. Please take your seats to the colleagues who have registered. Sure, through a chair, please. Until you're settled in, colleagues, I'll read you two messages: A bill to amend and supplement the Law on Underground Treasures. He was brought in by the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Energy is the lead. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of the Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of aircraft with their crews of the composition of the Air Space Forces of Russia, Russian Federation, to perform 11 fields for humanitarian purposes, transport of medical personnel, humanitarian cargo and special equipment. The permit is valid for passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria on routes: Russia The notification was received on 3 April 2020 by the Commission. No 003-09-30 and granted to the Defence Committee. Colleagues, on the grounds of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that the following drafts of decisions should be included for consideration and voting at the first item of today's plenary agenda. The following drafts of decisions will be included for consideration and voting on 4 April 2020: Project of a decision to amend the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, No 054-02-23, importers Kornelia Ninova and Krum Zarkov on 4 April 2020; Draft of a decision to reduce the basic monthly remuneration of the Members of the National Assembly, No 054-02-25, importers Plamen Hristov, Polina Tsankova and Albena Naydenova on 5 April 2020. Please vote on this proposal for an addition to item 1 of the agenda for today's plenary. Please, voting mode. They voted 107 MPs: for 107 against and abstentions there is no. The motion is accepted. Members, on the first item of the agenda, the three draft decisions on the remuneration of the Members of the National Assembly will be examined and voted separately. Another vote, fellow Members, please: From the voting agenda for today's plenary session to drop the fourth item of the second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Energy Act. It was adopted on 3 April 2020 on the first vote. Please vote on this proposal to be removed from today's agenda. Vote 126 MPs: 125, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, one more vote: The time of today's plenary session shall be extended until the votes on all items on the agenda have been completed and their results announced. Please, voting mode. They voted 122 MPs: 119, against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Thank you, colleagues. These are the votes so far. The next vote is 30 minutes after the debate on all items on the agenda is over. Please, as we decided on Friday, remain in the House the MPs who will debate on the first point. Please keep an eye on how the debates are going so you can join the other points. Thank you. Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO RESPONSE THE PRESENTATION OF THE MAIN MONTH REPRESENTATIVES OF THE PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES. Importers of KARAYANCHEVA and Group of People's REPRESENTATIVES of 3 APRIL 2020 PROJECT OF A DECISION TO CHANGE THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING, No 054-02-23, IMPORTING CORNELIA NINOVA AND CRUM ZARKOV OF 4 APRIL 2020 PROJECT OF A DECISION TO REDUCE THE MAIN MONTHLY REPRESENTATIVES OF THE PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES, No 054-02-25, INSTALENTS PLAMEN CHRISTOV, A LOT OF CANKOVA AND ALBEN ANNUAL OF 5 APRIL 2020 Who will present us the first Project for a solution? Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! I'm presenting. Project! DECISION stopping the recalculation of the basic monthly remuneration of the Members of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and § 2 of the Additional Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. With effect from 1 April 2020, for the period until the expiry of the emergency situation announced by the National Assembly Decision of 13 March 2020, the monthly remuneration of the Members of the National Assembly shall not be revalued according to the average monthly salary for the last month of the preceding quarter if the monthly remuneration thus determined is higher than the remuneration received for the month of December 2019. 2. All additional charges to the basic monthly remuneration of the Members of the National Assembly shall be carried out in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, etc. 1 of this decision. 3. Update of monthly remuneration under the conditions of point (c) 1 and 2 shall also be carried out in respect of persons whose basic monthly remuneration under the legislation in force is linked to the basic monthly remuneration of the Members of the National Assembly, including the heads of the National Assembly and the Standing Committees of the National Assembly. This is the draft decision submitted by the parliamentary group of GERB first at the time. Our motives are clear to everyone. The reduction of the basic monthly remuneration of Members of the National Assembly up to the size in December 2019 is a necessary measure in times of crisis, in times of pandemic, at what time we are at. We believe that the National Assembly, as the supreme legislative body, is obliged to take such measures to show not only civil responsibility, political responsibility, but also empathy to all Bulgarian citizens. You know, according to the Bureau of Labour, thousands are already registered without a job or on forced unpaid annual leave and are wondering how to survive. We believe that the National Assembly should make an adequate decision. That is why, in this regard, and in this sense is the draft decision that we are proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u3	Thank you, dear Mrs. Atanasova. The second Project for decision Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! For the fourth time, we propose a reduction in the remuneration of the MPs in the Forty-fourth National Assembly and their freezing not at present, but at the end of the previous term of the National Assembly. This topic has been discussed, as I have already said, four times at the initiative of the BSP here in the Chamber. Now, in the context of the crisis caused by the spread of COVID-19, fully with the expected and justified angry reaction of Bulgarian citizens who saw the salaries of MPs increase at a time when effort is required and many of them are left without any income, it was finally recognized by GERB, albeit halfway. The big difference between the two of our decisions is not only in the amount that we propose MPs to receive as remuneration, it is also in that for the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria.The reduction of the parliamentary remuneration, which in turn will lead to the reduction of the remuneration of a large group of senior civil servants whose salaries are tied to ours, is not just an anti-crisis measure limited to the duration of the emergency situation. This should be a permanent change leading to a reduction of the abyss, dividing that vast majority of Bulgarian citizens who receive a salary of up to 1000 BGN from their chosen ones who receive four times more. We have repeatedly appealed for a new fairer way of calculating wages to stop their continued and unjust growth. We repeat our statement from the previous three times. There is practically no sphere in Bulgaria "Neither in the state nor in the private sector, where wages can grow at such a rate." The feeling of injustice in Bulgarian citizens is reinforced and causes irreparable damage to the trust of the Bulgarian Parliament, so we should have given this example a long time ago. What you did not hear from us with reason was to be brought to your mind with crisis and suffering. No one needs those recurring news every three months that determine the increase in MP salaries. Our draft decision differs from yours because it is lasting, consistent and applies to all this legislation. Let the next be at the level of the challenges and be able to determine a fair and acceptable way of determining the parliamentary remuneration for Bulgarian citizenship. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. And the Project of a decision of the Party "VOLIA" - the Bulgarian Rodolyknits "Please, Mr. Hristov, give us an overview of the reasons for the decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to your attention a Project based on art. 86, para.1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 88, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We from WALK import: Project! DECISION to reduce the basic monthly remuneration of Members of the National Assembly It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. With effect from 1 April 2020 until the end of the emergency situation announced by the National Assembly Decision of 13 March 2020, the Members of the National Assembly shall receive a basic monthly remuneration equal to the minimum wage. The colleague Atanasova at the beginning here noted that they were the first to bring in, namely the government first submitted a proposal for reduction, rather to freeze the salaries of the MPs. We of WALK deliberately waited to be the last, hoping that everyone else would be able to bring something suitable and absolutely resonant into the situation we are in right now. This, unfortunately, did not happen either from GERB, nor from the United Patriarchs. This did not happen from BSP and from DPS. That is why we have decided to intervene again and to propose exactly this measure, because we all know that for one reason or another, each of us decides in this situation to donate, but in most cases he gives what he can separate from his monthly income, which at the same time is perhaps worth a minimum wage. So we decided that it is good to think: whether we ourselves can live the size of what we are willing to donate. Thousands of Bulgarians live on the edge of poverty, thousands of Bulgarians were robbed by the cartel in fuel, thousands of Bulgarians managed to survive with BGN 610. The minimum wage, which is in Bulgaria. Let us show that in these times we too are able to do so and thus help both citizens and the economy of the country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Angelov was the first to say. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the floor at the first point to remind you that it is also the United Patriarchs and IMROs in the previous Parliament, and in this Parliament have proposed several ways to calculate the salaries of the Members of the National Assembly. All these proposals of ours in both the previous National Assembly and in this National Assembly were either not admitted to the House and did not enter or were rejected by the majority of MPs. Today we are back together to debate this topic because of the fact that there is an emergency situation in Bulgaria and people are really annoyed by the fact that the salaries of the MPs are rising, and not only the members of the Council of Ministers, and others. The formula for the formation of the salaries and remuneration of the MPs really believe that it is wrong, and so we have made several proposals. The same thing about two years ago, Finance Minister Goranov said that a new proposal should be made on how to form these remunerations in order not to irritate people. Two years ago, we submitted to the National Assembly precisely a project with which we proposed that the salaries and remuneration of the MPs be indexed each year in July, with the index that indexed the pensions of the Bulgarian pensioners. This proposal has not yet entered the Chamber since then. I think that today, by discussing this, it may have been nice for a bill submitted two years ago to be included in this point, but it is not. This is what our colleagues from GERB asked us not to enter the Chamber for two years and something, it was populism, there was no need to comment on the salaries of the MPs, and now we see that GERB are submitting proposals. That is, when we from the "United patriots" make a proposal, and it makes a meaningful proposal, so that people with great demands do not become irritated every three months on the salaries of the people's representatives, then we are populists. Now that GERB and the others are importing, they are not populists. I don't understand the logic of things. We are not against the reduction of wages on the contrary, but we are about to make a formula and wages to be formed in a way that does not irritate people, and not only to the MPs, but to many people employees in the Bulgarian administration, in the Council of Ministers and so on. Because huge salaries, much larger than those of the MPs, are in many state structures, but I do not see them being affected by a decision by the National Assembly and someone proposing it. I do not see anyone proposing a change in the salaries of the members of the Council of Ministers. I don't see anyone suggesting... [[SIGHS]] I get it, but it's good to get involved. I do not see anyone proposing, at a time of emergency, that the salaries of municipal mayors be reduced from small municipalities, from different parties, which, after the elections, raised the salaries of 4 000. lv. I do not see such a proposal. Is it not appropriate for all who eventually take up such electoral posts during the emergency situation to be with reduced remuneration? This has to concern everyone! Therefore, Madam President, I do not know why you have accepted other proposals, and we must vote them in this House, provided that this decision of the National Assembly, each of the stands could do so and be voted at the end of the plenary session, as we have agreed on the National Assembly's work?! We are once again violating what we have proposed. Why did we have to vote that someone had decided to make a decision? Well, it will come from the stands, as I have done it, because it is a decision at one reading, to make a proposal and to put these decisions at the end on the voting agenda, as we have decided. We're doing something again, and we voted to do something else. I don't know why this is happening!? Perhaps there is a compromise on the support of certain decisions with certain parties! We propose that the following decision, which we insist on being voted on by the National Assembly: the monthly remuneration of the Members of the National Assembly and the members of the Council of Ministers during the emergency situation be 50% of the fees. This is our proposal because apparently, when we proposed something two years ago, we were populists, and today we seem to be right. Well, we're populists again, and we're offering something that, in time, we'll be right. I am not sure that the National Assembly will support this decision, but let us see if both the National Assembly on the left and on the right will support the proposal I have just made. Let's really show that we are empathetic, not freeze our salaries with a date and a few months from now, when the emergency situation is over, but the crisis will continue, the wages will remain high compared to the level we need to receive. In just a few months the income in the country will fall and the salaries of the MPs who are currently will go sharply down, but we will have frozen them at December level or, for example, at another level and they will still be higher than what we need to get. [[Heckling]] I don't see the logic of these proposals. We from the United Patriarchs (United Patriarchs) two years ago have proposed a way in which wages are formed to be indexed from 1 July with the index that indexes all other pensions. There is such a proposal that has been waiting for two years in the Chamber of National Assembly, and it does not enter the Chamber, and we are playing every time a piece of someone said, someone wrote on the yellow websites. People, of course, dissatisfied with the Internet, dissatisfied with social networks. We all know who feeds that discontent and what websites they write. We all know that, but we are not offering a lasting solution again. We offer a solution per piece to please people and not even like each other so much, but not to spit on people. Let's include our proposal! Why didn't you put it in the first point? Let us support it throughout the hall and know how the salaries of the MPs will be formed will be indexed by the same percentage as pensions are indexed each year. [[GERB lines.]] Whether they have or have nothing in common, it is a matter of a decision of the National Assembly. The National Assembly decides how salaries are formed, a colleague. That's our offer. I would like to see whether, indeed, in these difficult times, the MPs will support our proposal. May reason prevail! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u9	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. I will consult with the Legal Department of the National Assembly whether such a proposal can be made in this way, because you did not make a properly tabled proposal yesterday, as did the other parliamentary groups. Mr. Mareshki, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u10	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Angelov, two things have impressed me from your speech. I'll start with the less basic. You're talking about a very ugly backstage. I expect you to come out and say: who is negotiating what with whom, what deals, who is supporting what, who is not clear? We just heard there's some very ugly backstage. But more importantly, you say: to cut wages, because it irritates people. In fact, you're not the only one who can hear that from most places except the will. Guys, come to your senses! We don't do anything to annoy people. We must only make the right decision to be solidarity and empathetic. What could be easier than if you were really sincere in what you said, making the salaries of the MPs equal to the minimum wage? There it is very clearly written how the minimum wage is indexed, how it goes up and so on and then everyone will be aware that the MPs do not do anything just to please or not irritate people, but think with their heads, think rationally and want to really empathize with their people when they suffer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Angelov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u12	Mr. Mareshki, I don't know whether to be happy or not that I impressed you with two things. I don't know how good it is with you or how bad it is, but you still haven't been listening properly. I said from what are currently dictated these proposals, which are made by GERB, BSP and by you who have imported them. That's why you brought them in because people are getting annoyed right now. That's what I said, not that I'm making an offer because people are annoying. But you must have listened so well. If you from the Party of Volya have had a lasting view on the issue of the remuneration of the people's representatives, you should have long ago, long ago, more than two years have passed and something, to offer different options, to bring them in so that you can not sound like a person who is taking advantage of the tragedy of tens of thousands of people, not to say hundreds of thousands who are suffering from the crisis at the moment, because that is exactly how you sound, because you have done nothing in almost three years, as my colleagues have corrected me, so that the salaries of the people's representatives will be formed in another way. What you're doing right now is really ugly and disgusting.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u13	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Mr. Tsonev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u14	Madam President, honourable Members! The Parliamentary Group will support the project submitted by GERB's parliamentary group because we believe that this gesture of empathy is necessary in times of crisis. We will not support other proposals because they concern periods in which the country is not in crisis, and then the debate on the remuneration of the MPs has quite another meaning, there are quite other arguments on it that we have said many times. We will continue to say them and we will continue not to support any populist proposals dressed with arguments for chasms. Our salaries grow at the rate of increase of the average wage. The average wage increases according to the increase of the standard of living in the country, according to the competitiveness of the Bulgarian economy. I see no other criterion for the work of politicians, ministers, MPs other than the criterion development of the Bulgarian economy, standard of living and so on, but this is another topic. On behalf of our parliamentary group, however, I am making an editorial amendment to GERB's proposal. As I have already said, since the money saved by this amendment will remain in the budget of the National Assembly and if they are preserved as unspent funds, then will be transferred to the country's budget, I suggest that, in order to have an even more anti-crisis measure, you write down the following proposal: [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u15	It's like a fourth point or be plugged in somewhere... [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u16	Yes, it may not be at the end of the year, if there is an explicit decision of the National Assembly, it may be now.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u17	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsonev, you and I have had this debate on the ground several times. And please do not put under one denominator all the proposals made today as populist. The BSP proposal was made permanently and it rests on clear logic. It is not caused by today's annoyance of citizens, but is caused by the clear awareness that citizens do not perceive the way the salary is determined, for the only reason that it is unfair and I will explain why. I hope you don't treat it like populism. Yes, we are talking about a gap and it exists at many levels in the incomes of Bulgarian citizens. One thing is between the state and the political elite and the people themselves, another is between the people among themselves. It is no coincidence that with regard to Ginny's coefficient, which measures inequalities in our society, we have the most brutal levels of inequalities throughout the European Union. And this is an ethical, moral, economic and political problem. You say: it is logical to grow our salary along with the average. Is that true?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u19	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u20	No. I'll explain why, in my opinion. The average salary in Bulgaria is about 1200 BGN. Right now. It is formed precisely because of this huge scissors, so it turns out that more than 80% of Bulgarian citizens work for salary below average. Well, we ask, then, is it logical for us to measure our salary on average, or rather some value that is widespread in Bulgaria? When you have huge wage differences, then the average grows at levels much higher than the mass salary. And this, by the way, was recognised here, including by the current Minister of Finance on the first day of this meeting, when we discussed this issue with regard to the Rules of Procedure. Minister Goranov and a large number of GERB MPs were then committed to thinking whether a new way of determining the salary should really be determined. That didn't happen. And what's the consequence of that? Since we do not have a systematic, normal, clearly justified approach, we come to periodic debates in which, as a result of a crisis, various groups are practicing on their knees. Here you could already have the right to your arguments. Don't put all the suggestions under the same denominator. Our proposal is deeply justified.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u21	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u22	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Zarkov, it's a pity that in the back of your head I have to tell you exactly what I'm going to say, but you're doing the line. Our opinion of the DPS parliamentary group is that the proposals you have made before are populist. That's our opinion. Let me tell you again. We were saying it then, we're saying it now. You have the right to an opinion, we have the right to an opinion. Our opinion is that what you are proposing for the third, fifth or eighth time is populist and is not justified in our view, and does not meet those criteria according to which salaries should be formed at the country's leading levels. So there's no confusion or distinction here. When I said "popular," I meant that whenever you made this proposal, we thought it was populist. And if, when the crisis is over, we start talking again about our salaries, the ways and methodologies in which they are formed, I will tell you more arguments. I will give you arguments as to how many salaries are in the IT sector, how many people are employed there and what is the relevance of these people's intellectual work and ours; how many salaries are in the financial sector and what is the relevance of the intellectual work that people in the financial sector and ours are doing; how many average salaries in other sectors, which in times exceed ours and then we will talk. When we talk about criteria, I still say that this is not the time to talk about it, but still a little bit to justify why we think and have always thought that these proposals are populist, so I say these arguments. Scissors are always there and there will be. And when you talk about Ginny's ratio, yes. With average salaries in the IT sector of five-six thousand leva and in the other sectors average wage of 1,000 leva, here the scissors are five times. Indeed, some sectors are growing very violently, in open competition with the whole world sector and it is normal for the labour market to respond this way. It's only natural to answer that way. And it's normal for us to relate our work according to its relevance. If you relate your work to the work for which so much knowledge is not required, so much work is not required and so on and so forth it is another job. That's what we judge. We need to have respect for our own work, argue it, and say why. It's the right thing to do. And then we want people to respect our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u24	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mrs. Ninova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, dear Bulgarian citizens! Once again, there is a debate on the remuneration of the MPs, but they relate not only to us, but to over 500 senior officials in various committees, the Council of Ministers, the Presidency, the Ombudsman and so on. The debate is still disappointing today with the motives that fellow Members point out why they are putting forward a proposal to freeze wages. The first motive that was heard was: people get annoyed, let's not irritate people! It's a severe unconsciousness of the nature of the problem. We should reduce our salaries not because we irritate people, but because it is not fair, it is not economically justified, socially committed and morally to raise our salaries automatically every three months with the increase of the average wage without taking into account the work we have done. Because at the heart of the law it says that wages are paid for labor. The second argument we have heard: a crisis is and we must be solidarity and empathetic. Why only in crisis, esteemed ruling and colleagues from the DPS? Should we not be empathetic and solidarity at all to those two million Bulgarians who live below the poverty line? It is not the crisis that causes you to take this step and take it all, because we are all making proposals. It's not about the conjuncture decision. It's a principled, much larger, political, and moral issue. I'll read something, let me literally read it, because it's a quote: If bold requests are made to change the pattern, the system, put an end to the transition and lead the country in another direction, we need to start from ourselves, we need to set a personal example. Do we all know that the gap between politicians and people is increasing? We know. Do we all know we're overgrown with privileges? We know. We know what you're going to tell me: German lawmakers work for higher wages. Yes, colleagues, but the German people also receive higher salaries. And if we're going to measure ourselves with German MPs, let's first measure how our peoples live. And this is not populism, because which Bulgarian, apart from the country's political elite, works on a salary that depends on the average wage growth in the country and increases every three months, regardless of how much and what it produced? 99% of the Bulgarian people work on a fixed salary, and we will raise our salaries every time the average rises? By what right? This is not populism, but a constitutional principle of equal rights and opportunities. How many people in Bulgaria rest over 70 days? 240. How can a miner for hard labor rest for 30 days and the MPs rest for 70? I know you don't accept it, but we import it, and if you reject it, it's your will. Someday, when we rule, it will come true. I guarantee it. It's not populism, it's justice, it's awareness of a problem. This will show if we have understood that our people do not accept privileged class. This will show whether we want to untie this ball of political ties, business, money, interests and privileges, whether we will reach into this ball and tear it apart, or the people will kick it out of the field of politics and launch new teams here that will guarantee him a better future. I will not qualify those who do not accept our ideas and refer to them as anti-Europeans, for example, as they do if we do not agree with them. I will call them for one thing: I am sure that 100% in this House share these thoughts in mind. There are few who will afford to say them, and even less are those who will do these things! I'm addressing these few in this room and beyond. Few in the world have changed their countries. These few in all years are called leaders and leaders. I call on those who share such thoughts and are ready and brave to realize them, to be the leaders of the people he expects. The National Assembly's shorthand. And today I stand by every one of those words. And I say again: the question is not konjunctural, but principled; the question is not whether to irritate our people, but whether we have realized inequality as a problem and whether we are looking for ways to solve it. The difference between your and our proposals: You make proposals only for the time of the emergency situation with anticipation then return the status quo, which is the big problem. It's not the disease, we'll get through it, we'll all get through it together, but then you'll get the status quo back. Our proposal is for a change in the Rules of Procedure and it is a lasting one with and without a crisis the salaries of the political elite of Bulgaria not to increase automatically with the growth of the average, but to be determined on the basis of the minimum. We offer a new wage calculation mechanism. Of course, the will of each parliamentary group is how they will vote today. It is important to us that this is our permanent policy from 2017, 2018 and 2019. And I'll say it again: sooner or later it will come true. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. First line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u27	Madam President, honourable Members! I have a few questions for Mrs. Ninova. Very well, I agree with the fact that when you work hard, you have to be eligible. The first question is: when you were absent unregulated by Parliament and boycotted Parliament, you received a reward. [[BSP's comments and laughter for Bulgaria.]] Ha-ha-ha, there's a reference to accounting how much money you've been taking for no hard work. Question two: how did a 28-year-old girl make $70,000 when people were working in Libya for five or six years and earning $10,000? How did you, at the age of 28, put out $70,000 to work and deprive many workers of the opportunity to participate in privatisation? Question three: how did you vote from this tribune when we made the Emergency Act and the measures, respectively, how did you vote? And the last thing I want to ask you is: you wrote well in your iPad speech, but here, when we stand in front of people and talk to me and you talk to me, I want you to say how much you climbed on your comrades' shoulders to climb up here and give moral assessment to those present? Thank you. [[Radio and applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u28	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Second line, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u29	Madam President, honourable Members! Mrs. Ninova, we don't share any of the thoughts you said, so don't worry. It's not populism what you do. What you're doing is cynicism and hypocrisy. If it were populism, that is, something good for people, we would support it. Hypocrisy, just to tell you, is behavior in which maliciousness and insincereness are concealed under the mask of pure heart and benevolence. We didn't see anything like that in your statement. The only true solution to date, which is really populist yes, something that is good for the people, is that we are at this level, not at the average, not at any other, but at the minimum wage, because it is only the empathetic to the Bulgarian people and the only thing that can make the people's representatives work so that the income in Bulgaria can increase. And then I am sure that the gratitude of the Bulgarian people, it is clear to each of us, and the Bulgarian people will immediately reward each of these MPs who have worked for his well-being. You cannot expect us to support a solution that will freeze the income not at BGN 5200 but at BGN 4800 because there is simply no such mass income in Bulgaria. Yes, there are sectors that are developing violently, but I think that Parliament is not developing so violently.. rather we are walking standard, by momentum, as all these years, so there is no need to compare ourselves to the highest sectors. If you're really not a hypocrite...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u30	The weather, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u31	...I urge you to support our decision, which is the only truth at this time. Thank you. And just to add that it is not for the moment of the emergency, it is until the end of the mandate of the Forty-fourth National Assembly and also applies to the subsidies of the parties, which are also outrageous at the moment, compared to the situation in which our state is located. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u32	Thank you! Third line, Mr. Mihov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u33	Dear Mrs. Ninova! I take you a line because when it is said that the MPs are lazy, that they do not work and so on, it is understandable that this is an instrument in political play. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria "Borisov": "Borisov says so. "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u34	Please don't call from the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u35	Don't interrupt me! I'm saying it's an element of the political game. The game is played by many people. When false data is used and you twice self-activate to confirm and argue this, I disagree. You know very well that Members of the National Assembly are not entitled to either paid or unpaid leave. Neither paid nor unpaid leave! By the Rules of Procedure we have a vacation and try to calculate, if you please, how many working days are made according to the rules of the National Assembly. I'll tell you 32 working days. The average paid leave in Bulgaria for all professions is 28 working days. I do not agree with your claim that the MPs have the right to 70 days paid leave. That's not true. You don't have to answer me. Believe me, I'm accurate in statistics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u36	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Mrs. Ninova, come on in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u37	Now I will address the Bulgarian citizens directly. Dear Bulgarian citizens, what you have seen as replicas is part of a management tactic over the past 10 years of lowliness of mind for the Bulgarian Parliament, with the fact that when you have no arguments to respond to your political opponent in essence, to attack and slander him, to call the people's representatives idle and they, by the ruling majority, to applaud when their leader calls them that. When they can't tell you why they take £6,000, their constituents have 200 leva. pension, go out and start personal assaults against the one who points out arguments. You must have felt this demagogy and this way of working of Prime Minister Borisov, of GERB, of the United Patriarchs and of the ruling majority. I refuse to be part of another example to show you that we don't solve your problems here, but we deal with each other who is the more, the more, the more. So I'm not going to answer the way I was challenged, for example, for some Vertu phones taken by the people who are now coming out here on stage. I will only tell you this: from the BSP to Bulgaria......................................... This means the slanderers of the court! For your information, I've filed cases for Mrs. Lies, not just to answer them. I sentenced Mr. Borisov for this and he owes me the costs of the case. I've filed cases for all the slanders against me for my participation in the UDF in any form, from a regular member to a deputy minister, and I've won them against those who for 10 years suggest that the President of Bulgarian Socialists has ever been a member of another party. I won! I've convicted them! This is what I will do from now on, because we claim the rule of law, and in the rule of law, slanderers get what they deserve! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u39	Madam President, honourable Members! I had no intention of speaking in the template, but I was challenged to speak. I would like, because there are suggestions to the Bulgarian citizens, not to make suggestions, but to speak only facts. In 2010, honored on the left, the Political Party GERB froze the remuneration of the MPs. If you have forgotten, since you were not in parliament then, let me tell you: by 2013 wages were frozen. After that, proposals were made again and only 2014 salaries were updated. It's like factology, because here I see that it's forgotten. In fact, some people are leaving, and since they're leaving before Mrs. Ninova leaves, [[People's representative Cornelia Ninova is leaving the hall]] I'd like to ask her: Mrs. Ninova, when you were Deputy Minister, how many board did you participate in? Why did you leave? How many board did you participate in? And I want you here in front of the Bulgarian citizens, because you are talking about remuneration, to say what money you received on these boards? This money you received, how many of them did you spend for the poor Bulgarian citizens who lived with minimum wage? More than that. You participated in the privatization of the Plovdiv Fair what did you give to the Bulgarian people? How did you take care of them? What's more, because here I see echoing smiles...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u40	On the subject, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u41	On the subject, that's right. The theme is about remuneration and how we take care of our constituents and the people who are watching us right now. Moreover, her apotheosis in financial policy knew absolutely all of them in and the sixth year was stoned out.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u42	Mr. Ivanov, that's not the point. You are discussing Mrs. Ninova, a representative of the National Assembly. It's a slightly different subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u43	That's right, a MP who just said that from the political party GERB we were demagos. That's why I wanted to remind you of factology. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u44	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Yachev, come in for a statement. I suggest we get back to the subject and let the debate take it easy.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u45	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! That is why I am taking the floor of speech to return the debate to the main topic. And the topic that we are debating at the moment is: the amount of the remuneration of the MPs in the context of a crisis, in the context of a state of emergency. Here were various proposals: to freeze the salary of the MPs; to reduce by one third; to reduce by 50%; to basic or minimum wage as remuneration for the MPs. All these or some of these proposals were made, colleagues, at a time when, just a few days ago, we did not realize the size of the crisis and the amount of damage the Bulgarian economy will suffer, and the Bulgarian people during the emergency situation and immediately thereafter. We see that it is a lasting trend for thousands of companies and hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens to lose their jobs and to experience a subsequent crisis after the imposition of emergency measures. In this regard, I think that the most sensible and the most solid, and most as an act of empathy is today the National Assembly to decide that the Members of the National Assembly should work without remuneration in the context of an emergency, in the context of a crisis. It's not that scary, guys. The MPs from NFSB in March already donated their entire wage, the entire salary for buying an apparatus that was donated to an Infectious Hospital. I think this can be taken now as a decision, in the context of the debate and I do so, Mr President, as a proposal, I will present it in writing in a moment. This is really a clear and real measure of empathy and solidarity with what all Bulgarian citizens are experiencing at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u46	Thank you, Mr. Yachev. Are there any lines? Mr. Atanasov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u47	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yachev, I have no comments to you on what you have spoken, but you all know that in the Parliament of 240 MPs each of us has a different financial status. I wonder why you missed something very interesting. For example, you could offer all the privatists in parliament, and they are not few, to gather together and form a fund of solidarity for sick people and solidarity for those sick people who are growing more and more. I didn't hear that from you, Mr. Yachev. There are few privatizers, including the second largest parliamentary group, Mrs. Ninova is a privatizer of one of the most serious enterprises in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u48	Mr. Atanasov, thank you, too. Mr. Yachev, would you like a coat? No. Here you are, Mrs. Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u49	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I do not know if Bulgarian citizens are so annoyed that our salaries will be five thousand, three thousand or five thousand and two hundred, but they certainly approve our proposal to take minimum wages. But believe me, so many people have already called us, said that what is happening here is definitely annoying because a parliamentary hour is worth about 100,000. lv. of Bulgarian taxpayers. So how do we get out of here and explain why we spent that 100,000? lv. Today?! And when we cut our salaries, perhaps then it will be more profitable for Bulgarian citizens to talk here, than this tribune, which wants to. But let's get back to the debate. I don't think there are political hypocrites here, no, not at all. Mr. Mareshki just explained what hypocrisy means, Mrs. Nino has been quoting herself since 2018 and said that the gap between the people and us politicians is huge. Mr. Zarkov said it's not a gulf, it's a gulf! I will allow myself to quote Mr. Mareshki and I from 2018, where he says: "Not a minimum wage, a minimum pension we must all take to see how the MPs will vote on the minimum pension of 220 BGN." Are we going to reduce the abyss, cut the gap, or are we just going to lead political rhetoric? If you really want to split the gap... You say, £1,000. They take people on average. Yeah, our offer is for £610. salary and not during the crisis, but BGN 610, while Bulgarian citizens feel the effectiveness of our work. As our employers, believe me, they will be grateful when they receive high wages, high pensions, a rich and prosperous state, an opportunity to develop the economy. Then these employers of ours will raise our salaries on their own. Because at the moment everyone is going out on this stand, especially us, always clearly and categorically separated from the opposition and we call it screaming and loud... and our part is an opposition that is constructive, with real proposals. Why are we doing this? Because every day someone comes out of this screaming opposition and says how poor people live, how hard people live, how they don't even have money for bread. Yeah, but those people who don't have money for bread, coworkers, believe me, they know they don't have money for bread. They expect from us these solutions, where they will have money not only for bread, but also for cheese. They don't expect you to make any findings every day. And when you don't know how to make real proposals, then listen to the will's proposals, vote on the will's proposals, not because someone on the outside gets irritated, but because it's the right one. And when we talk about empathy, about solidarity, about a real feeling of desire, about being part of our society, as their representatives, will you support our proposal only and only a minimum wage for the MPs? You all get up, throw yourself back at who's privatized how much, who's stolen how much, who's kept the money, who's drained what from whom, and not a word of our proposal?! Why, colleagues, why? Come on, let's talk about this abyss, about reducing the abyss, about tearing it down. Then the people will believe that they are all real people here and everyone is very fond of their people. But not a word! We're the only ones going out there to protect our proposal. Colleagues, we at WALK know the pattern is wrong. It is no accident that we appeared in elections three years ago and it is no coincidence that we are talking about unification, unity with our entry into the National Assembly. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Why am I addressing you?! Because you have 900,000 support because thanks to this tribune people believe you. Now is the time to protect this support! [[GERB lines.]] Why you?! Because you have a million and a hundred and every time an election passes, someone comes out of this tribune and tells us: we won. No, we've won more and we're listening to a race for the winners. Well, we couldn't fight for this great support, we'll take it and say we lost. Well, now the losers ask you to comply with the demands of the Bulgarian people and to vote minimum wage for the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u50	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. The lines, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u51	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Ms. Taskova, you presented us very well with your project. You said the minimum wage applies not only to the time of emergency, right? You should be reading your proposal, not fooling people. So you have proposed that MPs receive a minimum wage only for the time of the emergency situation, and here you are almost presenting it as a very long populism! Therefore, you must vote for ours because it is lasting. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u52	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mrs. Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Open this site! It's the 21st century! Learn to see that all our proposals are published on the website of the National Assembly and see that it writes... Yes, today we are discussing a draft decision on the time of the emergency situation, but immediately after it is introduced a draft decision on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure and the activities of the National Assembly, where it is written clearly and categorically... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yes, where it is written that we propose that MPs receive a minimum wage until the next parliament comes to vote on what salaries it considers. I want to reduce the abyss, you know? Because I, unlike you, don't live on the red carpet. I, unlike you, am seeing people right now. I'm a master pharmacist, I work in a pharmacy, I see their pain, I see how they count their pennies, so let's cut the abyss by 3,000. lv. We're not reducing anything. Support our proposal to show that you are solidarity and sympathetic to the pain and misery of the Bulgarian people.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u54	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. Please come in for a procedure. Then Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u55	Thank you, Madam President. I am aware that I cannot propose an end to the debate, but I therefore refer to a procedure in the manner of leading you with an appeal to address to fellow Members of the House. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Madam President! We have been debating the salaries of the MPs for over an hour now. There are several decisions tabled. All those who have made these decisions have spoken. Many important solutions await us, the update of the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria awaits us, the Law on Emergency and Measures. I appeal to the Members of the National Assembly to stop speaking on this subject, they are clear of all the positions and opinions. Let's move on to really important and important issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u56	Thank you, Mr. Popov. All the parliamentary groups still have time to debate, so I have no way of ending this debate. Mr. Nenkov, come in for a statement. Then Mr. Sabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u57	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I also said last week that the topic of the debate on parliamentary salaries is not a topic that can bring some positive, any proposal to be made by any parliamentary group. Some of the different ones I disagree with have been heard. The first thesis was that we wanted to like each other. No, I absolutely don't believe that this topic can in any way contribute to liking you more or less. The like is based on the work done, on the responsible decisions, all the more so when it comes to such a state of emergency and when the people's representation must find the best solution to get out as lightly as possible from the existing pandemic, economic, follow-up and social crisis. The second thesis was so we wouldn't bother people. I don't believe that somewhere in the world, or at least I don't know, people light-handedly love their politicians. The work of politics, in my opinion, let me not say by all, is to do the right things according to his feelings. The third thesis was because of the loss of plenary time. I cannot agree with Mrs. Takova, I think she expressed it, with the fact that the work of the MPs and their remuneration should be based on how long they work, that we should almost save time and just vote. No, Parliament's work, especially this institution's, is to have the opportunity to have a parliamentary plenary time for each parliamentary group to express its position, so we are 240 MPs, each one to express his will, his understanding, his thesis and by voting to determine which is most favourable to the situation in question, of course. So an option in which we like each other, I very much doubt it's possible. It is important for the MPs to make objective and correct decisions and this is the most essential. Why isn't our proposal populist? In every other situation and in the previous years, what BSP has offered, we have not supported it for one simple reason that indeed, when the state is moving economically forward, when we financially believe that the state is on the rise. It is no coincidence that this wording of the remuneration of the Members of the National Assembly is directly linked to the average wage. You always say it only goes up, but it's not true. It will also go down and immediately after the crisis this salary will be calculated and will go down, will be significantly lower than the current levels. Why isn't our proposal populist and we're not doing it for the purpose of liking each other? Because at least what it is, the MP's salaries and the average wage are revalued on the basis of the previous quarter. However, we are already in a crisis since March 13 we are in a state of emergency, which will directly affect the average wage, but it will be recalculated in April. In fact, there is already more than a month in which this salary will have to be recalculated on the basis of pre-emergency levels. That is precisely why our proposal is very sensible, in my opinion, because it takes into account precisely this gap, which cannot be foreseen in the way that wages are normally formed and is therefore not populist. In any other situation in recent years, all these proposals that have been made, I believe they are only in the area of liking the voters. I don't believe this is how we're gonna like each other. For me, to please the voters, first, as I just said, to make the right decisions. Second, to some extent respect our own work. I don't think that, I mean, every single political group hasn't done what it came here to do. We are ruling and offer our solutions for the future of the state. There are opposition parties that offer alternative parties, we may not like them, we may not support them, but these are colleagues who have done their work, whether they are their proposal and we cannot lightly say and punish ourselves: well, we are actually bums who do nothing else. Excuse me, this is not true and I cannot agree with this thesis, all the more so that there is another moment of the MP, another very important function which somehow remains sidelined and everything is calculated on the basis of how long we have been in the Chamber, how many votes we have done. I'm sorry, I'm favored because I'm from Sofia and I'm not traveling, it's much easier for me to meet my constituents. I don't have to travel to Silistra, to Varna, to Burgas every week. I don't know why we don't want to admit it somehow. Most colleagues I have known since Friday, when the plenary session ends Saturday, Sunday, Monday and Tuesday, especially on Saturday and Sunday, use their time to meet voters, to seek their opinions, to seek solutions to their problems. This is also part of the work of the MP. The colleague Popov nicely made a suggestion that if we continue the debate, he should be on such a plane. I don't expect it to be perceived, of course, but it's really important to me that we don't cross the line of reason. Moreover, if we want to be liked by people outside of remuneration, we must also have some personal good example of how we communicate. If we respect ourselves first, we also respect colleagues from other parties, albeit incoherent, then I believe that people will have a much better opinion on Parliament's work and never pay will be the main factor and motive to like us. And something that's very important. We quickly forgot what was happening before March 13th. In recent years, there has been a very large competition between the private and public sectors. What happened? The state began to compete with quality, capable people who could take important, strategic positions in state institutions. You know, down the chain, a lot of people depend on our salaries. I am of the opinion that ministers, heads of state enterprises, of state agencies, the president, if you will, all who are directly bound by the MP's salary, do not look for a way to stimulate these people to occupy such important, responsible state positions. Competition in the labour market was very cruel until 13 March. Who wants to say what they want to talk to me, who knows very well that I have been contacted by many companies, who have been looking for a way to import footage from Bulgaria. Now the situation is different, but before March 13th it wasn't like this. Competition between the state and the private sector has been very passionate. We had to look for an option to stimulate people to take such important positions. A minister cannot work for BGN 1500 to please him. Excuse me, this is absolutely humiliating for any self-respecting country. I don't think we should cross the line of reason. Our proposal is solely because until March 13th the recalculation will not cover this period when we are already in a state of emergency. As far as being solidarity is concerned, and that this is an anti-crisis measure, no, it is not true, it cannot be an anti-crisis measure. It can't be money, it can't be much money for the state to say it's anti-crisis. That is why we have adopted a decision in our political party half of the wages we receive to donate them targeted on certain feathers associated with the spread of the coronavirus. But it's a personal act, nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u58	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Sabanov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u59	It's an extension of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u60	Increase group time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u61	Madam President, honourable Members! We were just talking in the couloirs, and we were talking about whether populism was over or not. The way it was going, it was left to me to suggest that every MP should give 1000 leva to come to work and feed as he could. Those who believe that the salaries of two or three years ago were large, would have made a donation account for these two years... enough MPs had, would have collected a large amount of money and donated constantly. The place of populism is not in this room today. Whether we donate, whether we're going to be on minimum or zero salary, I will not make such an offer, because it would be a shame to give 1000 levs to go to work. Colleagues, we are here to destroy the trust of the people in the National Assembly and to humiliate ourselves, nothing else we have done in the last two hours. So let's finish the debates on this point and decide what the House decides will eventually be voted on, the best proposal that has received the most votes will be chosen, and it will all be over. Whatever suggestions are made, more than half, not to say 90% of the proposals you know won't be accepted, and we're overreacting here with warm beer, excuse the expression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u62	Thank you, dear Mr. Sabanov. Do we have any lines? I can't see. Mr. Vigenin, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! [[Reply from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u64	Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u65	I don't think you're forbade me from speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u66	Of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u67	I had no intention of speaking, but I share the opinion expressed by some of my fellow Members that, with such debates, we achieve nothing, we further undermine the low prestige of the National Assembly. But let's say that the responsibility for this is primarily for colleagues from GERB. You are the leading parliamentary group, you are the head of the National Assembly, and I think that at times like this, you should take the lead in seeking common solutions and avoiding such debates here, because that is what the colleague before me said does not help us with anything. In several speeches in recent weeks, I have been trying to point out that with this, no one wins, no group, and in general the prestige of parliament is being undermined. Trust in parliament does not depend on how much wages are and how much we will reduce them; whether we will pay ourselves to meet in the National Assembly, but on what signals we are broadcasting; at the height of the moment are we like the National Assembly and people who represent our constituents who are facing enormous difficulties at the moment; whether the legislation we are adopting, especially now, related to the crisis, is qualitative and meets the expectations of the people. In this regard, it is a pity that there is no desire on the part of GERB's parliamentary group to try to coordinate in advance a joint decision that will come out as an initiative of the National Assembly. Because, colleagues from GERB, what you are proposing for these two months will actually end up being that the pay gap will be minimal, if there is one at all, let's see what the data will be. And most likely the National Assembly will not be left with much money, which will then be donated to the account of the Ministry of Health, which Mr. Tsonev proposed. I am opening up a brace to say that, even before several presidential councils, I myself suggested that the money saved from overseas missions should also be transferred to combat the epidemic, which can easily be calculated and are available. I don't think there were any common ground between the various proposals so we couldn't come up with a common solution and avoid all this debate here. It's a shame it didn't work out. This race in reducing wages for the state of emergency, I think it's just not serious. The philosophy offered by BSP is different. It is not related only to the current situation. The National Assembly is not a business structure to measure the efficiency of the work for hours spent here. I would like to draw attention to those who are talking about the average salary, that we are talking about an average salary in the public sector, which is slightly different from the average salary for the country. Naturally, each of these proposals makes sense. We will make a decision, whatever it is, which will lead to temporary wage cuts, at least for the period of the crisis. But I would suggest, immediately afterwards, that we seriously consider a mechanism that will save us these constant explanations of how our salaries are formed, how much they are, why they are increasing or, respectively, decreasing and bringing a little more order to this system. I would like to say that, perhaps disagreed with my parliamentary group, I do not know in what order the proposals will be put to the vote, that I personally support the proposal of the Political Party Volya and I hope they will support our BSP because they are not mutually exclusive in fact. Once there is such a desire in the MPs of all parliamentary groups to seek this solution, which will not irritate but introduce order, will save us the constant explanations and will have an adequate wage formation mechanism, to sit down, to do so, albeit at the end of the term of office of this National Assembly, so that the next, whatever it is, can start on a clean basis and build on it. Because this debate systematically eroticizes trust in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u68	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. - What's the line? Mr. Mareshki, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u69	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr Vigenin, you are absolutely right that the effectiveness of the National Assembly is not measured by the hours of debate here. The only measure for the effectiveness of our work here is the pocket of the Bulgarians, the well-being of the Bulgarian people, the prosperity of the Bulgarian state. Who here can come out and say that we have achieved such a level of well-being of the Bulgarians and prosperity of the Bulgarian state that we deserve high wages? That is precisely why and only because of this, and not by wild populism - practicality, pragmatism, patriotism - we propose that the MPs receive the minimum wage in order to shorten this gap and abyss, which you are talking about, to equalize with the worst, and there are worse living. We can even get there and talk about the minimum pension, but since we are now talking about working people, about the minimum wage to be tied to the remuneration of the MPs. Then each of us will have additional motivation to do the job he came here to do. Having chosen us is not enough motivation to do what we should do, and people should be happy that they are Bulgarian citizens, and we should have additional motivation. Indeed, coming down at least as a reward, because you know that there are other privileges of the MPs to the level of the least paid Bulgarian citizens will give us a more realistic idea of who lives in Bulgaria and what decisions we should make in order to be more effective and more useful for the Bulgarian people. Outside of our wage proposal, we are talking and we have tabled a proposal for subsidies. What are we going to tell the Bulgarian people about the millions of subsidies that are currently leaking into the parties that turn out not to work for the good of the Bulgarian people? [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u70	The weather, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u71	So I'm going to ask you to think about these issues as well. Until the end of the mandate, we must freeze our wages at minimum wage level and eliminate subsidies from political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u72	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Do we have a second line? I can't see. Mr. Vigenin, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u73	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Mareshki, I must, however, clarify today we are discussing your proposal to reduce the salaries of the MPs to the minimum wage level for the time of the emergency situation. This is not what I think populism is about. This is empathy for people who do not have incomes. In fact, in the next debates, we will also justify a proposal of a similar nature as changes in the budget for people who are currently on unpaid leave. This, I repeat, I do not believe to be populism, but I consider it populism to be the other proposals that you have obviously made to us that they have not reached the minimum wage of the people's representatives at all, and after the end of the emergency situation. That's beyond common sense now. However, I think that we can find common points, yet I say in order to come up with a joint proposal for a new mechanism for determining the salaries of the MPs and a more adequate amount of the current situation, which not only will not irritate the target, but will respond much more to the expectations of the citizens and will show that we are interested in what is happening in the country, and that they have sent us here not to think about ourselves, as you have rightly noted, but to seek the ways of the people's representatives and their voters to work together in one direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u74	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, on the occasion of the proposals made today, I will support the proposal made by the Political Party GERB on the occasion of the freezing of the salaries of the MPs. And for me this is the most adequate, responsible and, so to speak, solidarity with the crisis, which will experience in their income quite Bulgarian citizens, caused by the CIVID-19 crisis. However, I will go back a little bit further, because there have been a lot of reproaches from the colleagues in the formation of the wage of the people's representatives, without deluding, but here, addressing the Bulgarian citizens, I would like to stress one thing: that the function, which is really the calculation of the quarter of the salaries of the people's representatives, gives the only so far opportunity for the Bulgarian Parliament to reduce the wage of the Bulgarian MPs. This function has happened several times, precisely during this term, when in the second quarter, if memory serves me, at previous years, there was such a reduction. So much for the methodology of calculating the remuneration of the Members of the National Assembly. From previous statements, for me, focusing on a really serious dose of populism and, in particular, somewhat already bordering on arrogance, especially the statements on the salary of the MPs and even further, reaching the social scissors in the incomes of Bulgarian citizens, namely statements from colleagues belonging to a political party whose members have stated that they have the most millionaires per head of their party table. For me this is arrogance, colleagues, to allow ourselves to speak it from the stands of the National Assembly and, unfortunately, this will not lead, as you say, to raising confidence in our institution.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u76	How did you list them?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u77	These lists are made by your senior ruling parties at your meetings and you can check them out!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u78	Party functionaries.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u79	Party functionaries high! Thank you. Only GERB is the party that we can boldly say has had a consistent policy in its donor campaigns, and not only during the crisis and not only in the current one. I will not refer to Hitrino, I will not say in the floods, I will not say the very many donations that have been made for temples, treatments, and I will only stress that out of all here speaking, only the Political Party GERB has decided that half of the salaries of the MPs will be allocated and entered into an account to assist the Bulgarian citizens in the fight against the epidemic COVID-19. Just us, guys! And that's not populism. I declare it most responsible that we have the most consistent donation policy, for me, of all other Bulgarian parties. [[Replicate from BSP for Bulgaria: "Don't brag! "]] I'm not bragging. You're bragging about populist speeches. Colleagues, come make a line for me. Please, Madam President, stop the colleagues who are replicating me from this House! Colleagues, it is also an extraordinary arrogance for me here to suggest... to offer, because we do not offer it, our proposal is visible to you, but to offer freezing, reduction and so on to the salaries of the Members of the National Assembly. How much money, I, because I can boldly say that I deal well with arithmetic, have done the bill how much would save such a measure, even if the Bulgarian Parliament did not receive full wages. Well, we, colleagues, had made a proposal, repeatedly a political party GERB proposed that the party subsidy be one lev out of vote and that would save tens of millions of Bulgarian citizens every year. And it wasn't during a crisis, because if we were talking about populism, you would support it then. If you are only doing it now, I say again, much lower would be the financial effect and the savings from the freezing, the reduction of the salaries of the MPs. And only the political party GERB had proposed, supported the party subsidy to be one lev, which is tens of millions of levs a year saved by the state. Here, the speeches on labour by the MPs to argue a reduction, an increase and so on on the salaries of the MPs, for me, is still bordering on one light "not to be the ultimate dose of populism that I have previously listed, but is moderately entertaining populism, and it is from the statements of some MPs, who quite often witness not to support votes in this House even their own proposals. For me, it's a little bordering on...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u80	Names, names, names!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u81	No, I won't tell. Members of the National Assembly may recognize each other or their colleagues will betray them, but that is not a reproach, that is, I am simply saying, when we go out on the stand of the National Assembly, let us speak with a pure heart. This is what I do when there are proposals that I have made, I support, then I declare this responsibility to the Bulgarians, to my voters. That's why, fellow Members, humbly! And I say again that I really thank Mr. Vigenin, who said that in the work of the MPs more important is what we will then adopt the amendments to the State Budget Act, where there are billions that help Bulgarian citizens and businesses; overcoming the crisis and its consequences; the measures we have reviewed, listening to business and to Bulgarian citizens. Here I hope we will get the broad support, colleagues, because this is where the MPs can show that we are useful to the Bulgarian economy, Bulgarian citizens, Bulgarian pensioners and those who will receive income from the state when they are in difficulty. But at the same time, we have to make another account. We need to make an account and self-esteem really and be more humble when we speak out of this tribune, I have listed why. Because when our current salaries are such or are frozen, we should not turn it into something from which to extract a political argument and dividend, but, on the contrary, to pay attention to the next debates, when yesterday or Friday continued in the 12 o'clock committees, all the MPs who participated in these debates in the Legal and Budget Committee have taken responsibility for our decisions and today we will defend them from this tribune. I think these decisions, colleagues, will be important to Bulgarian citizens, not how we punish ourselves and blame ourselves here in the Chamber. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u82	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. First line, Mrs. Taskov and a line from Mr. Kasabov. Mrs. Taskova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I listened very carefully to your speech. I'd like to make a comment. I believe that in your duplicate you should correctly reflect that you were not the only one who supported the grant of one lev, but only we voted to the end only for a grant of one lev, even at the moment when everyone else agreed to the subsidy to be eight levs. But more importantly, what I want to say is, when a person donates, he accepts this as a personal act, and very rarely, when this is done, it's not because of advertising, it's done by purely human consciousness, with the desire to be in favor of people, you don't go out and you don't state it. Perhaps Mr. Mareshki will be angry that I will do it on his behalf, but, Mr. Mareshki, I only do it so that we set an example to the people and to all those who bear the virtues that you have, let them follow you, because I know that from your work, from the activity that you deal with every day, in the pockets of the Bulgarian citizens remains over 600 thousand. lv. Because I know that you are perhaps one of the biggest donors of the MMA not only during crises, but constantly. Because I know you donate to temples and churches...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u84	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u85	Time, Mrs. Taskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u86	...and that might make you one of the biggest donors. I'm sorry I leaked that information, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Taskova. Second line, here you go, Mr. Kasabov. Third line? I can't see. Then procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u88	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear colleague Ivanov, you caught a topic with which you should not proceed. You started beating the ball and saying how great you are in giving. Be a little more modest because at the beginning we from GERB made donations when we were silent we made donations for several churches. One church is in Burgas, 1.5 million, more than 20 monuments huge, last month we donated our salaries to an apparatus in a hospital, offer and give half of our salaries. All of this we do it silently, silently and now you are simply challenging us to tell you all these things without fighting in the chest, because what is done is done calmly, in the name of a cause the cause is called the Bulgarian people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u89	Thank you, Mr. Kasabov. Mr. Ivanov, can you use your coat? Okay, here you go. And then Mr. Hristov for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Gentlemen and lady replicating, I'll be very brief. I will mention only in terms of the one lev subsidy. I'm saying that we brought him in repeatedly, and we brought him in first, and I didn't comment on anything else, and your thesis is certainly correct, Mrs. Taskova. Mr. Kasabov, with all due respect, I'm not saying that I'm ignoring and I want to belittle someone's act. On the contrary, but because here it was pointed out by other colleagues in the Chamber during a crisis what they are doing, I am simply saying that there are such political forces and for me GERB is the one that has been the most consistent, for many years, I do not say by which means, there is such practice. Nothing more! I respect donation as an act, really individual and every colleague, I am sure that there are many in this House who do and do not mention it, but not on behalf of a political group to have loud statements in this or that direction and to use it at the time of crisis. It was my call from this tribune. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u91	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Hristov, just to say that you don't have any more time for the group. Come in for the procedure, Mr. Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u92	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I think we have crossed all limits in discussing this point. The citizens of Bulgaria expect us to discuss the aid we will make to them with their decisions in this emergency situation in the country. What is happening here is that everyone quotes their boss how much he has donated, what church has been donated, isn't it embarrassing for you, Madam President, in front of the whole of Bulgaria that she looks at us and expects us? The next items are important for the agenda! We've turned all this into something that's unimaginable! I'm a doctor with 35-year-old practice, I've never seen so many outbursts in any environment that they've done it! And this is in the national parliament of Bulgaria! Please, I suggest that the debate on this point be ended and we move on with what Bulgaria is currently interested in! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u93	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. You know that there is no way to end the debate at the first vote. This is the personal will of the Members of the National Assembly. I, too, cannot take the floor away from the MPs, so the debate continues. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u94	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm going to say something that I don't know if anyone expects me to go back a little bit in time. In 2011 or 2012, we had the same debate and a colleague from the UDF then who were in parliament, who did not shine with a special mind, told a parable that is very suitable for our debate here. He said: "Colleagues, if we all go out to parliament with just one sack of poof, with one whip in our hand and beat ourselves to blood in front of our voters, Bulgarian citizens will gather a huge crowd that will applaud us, but no one will then vote for us. There is no greater destroyer of the authority of the National Assembly than self-destruction. The problems we are discussing here, and any exotic suggestions, praises and so on, and all that makes no sense. This debate, this issue can be resolved as follows: by bringing together all the leaders of political parties and members of parliament, agree such regulation, shake hands and say: let's do it! But I don't see how that's gonna happen. I cannot ask Madam President to end the debate, however, but I call on you: let us stop. Let us stop because what we are doing is humiliation for the national parliament. I repeat, I have been in politics for 15 years and I have understood that all these debates have a negative impact on society. When we froze our wages, could anyone tell us what the effect of this freezing was? He was nothing. He was absolutely nothing. It didn't have any value, and then things went the way they were. I will personally vote for a reduction or for whatever it is, there must be some change at all. But what we're discussing here, the way we're discussing it, it's just embarrassing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u95	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. A statement, Mr. Atanasov? You won't. Here you are, Mr. Mareshki, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u96	Madam President, honourable Members! From this tribune I will also address all Bulgarians. I'm sure in times like these, they're even more careful to monitor what's going on in this room. Today Bulgaria more than ever needs its contemporary Levski. We're not used to quoting it on holidays alone, are we?! We need people like that every day. Our people need strong leaders, hope and faith. At times of trial, everyone wants to unite around people they trust and can rely on. The people need to know that there is someone to lead him on the right path, that there is no chaos, fear or disorder, but pragmatism, reason, patriotism and integrity at the top of the state. Every politician, as long as he has the qualities of a true leader, manages to find his exact place in such a complex situation, and such a place to give him a chance to prove himself, to do something real for his people. When you look for only temporary party dividends, you lighten up, you look like a man of weightlessness. And that, on the one hand, is pathetic, but on the other, it is very useful, because the crisis will take off many masks, it will debunk many myths and delusions. One general tried him out for president, another dreamt of a second presidential term, a third politician chased around, I don't know what you're like in your party. We're getting all over the place with comments like that. Is that, I ask you, the agenda of the Bulgarian people right now? No, it's not! In the event of such a pandemic and a global crisis, at a time when in our country hospitals are tensely ready for the peak of the disease, when thousands of small and medium-sized companies die, when the unemployed multiply for hours, other priorities are the health of the people, medical specialists and the economy. There is no room for personal interest and personal ambition. Those who will be quick to criticize me, as I speak these things, I will explain them immediately. I believe that I have this right to be the only one in this Chamber who has appeared independently in presidential elections and I have received the trust of nearly half a million Bulgarians. So I can stand up here and say loud and clear: come to your senses! This is no time for a party race and amassing political dividends. Today it is time to show how much we are worth as men and as statesmen, whether we have the power to unite and work together to bring our people out of this crisis without much damage and sacrifice, whether we are adequate to the time we live in and the trials that are ahead of us. If anyone thought he was gonna sit here in the warm, get a good salary, take privileges, come out the front and pour out another populist idea, push the button and wait for his pension, he's been lying a lot. Parliament is not a rest station, nor is it an island of abundance for God-elects. Parliament is a pillar of democracy, at least it should be. We can't afford to waste time on empty debates right now because someone wants to be on TV. It's time for quick, effective and meaningful solutions. There's no room for political stubbornness. I don't know how many of you have ever managed a crisis in your life, I exclude some colleagues from the BSP who have been manifesting themselves since the time of Videnov there we have seen what you have done and how the people have driven you out. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You're more of a crisis kind of guy. We of WOLF have dealt with everything in the last 25 years, creating and managing large-scale economic structures. So it's okay to listen to us a little more. The Bulgarians live for 30 years in a state of emergency and in poverty as a result of your governments. Is it true? It's true. 30 years our compatriots expect politicians to lead the state so that there is a high standard of living in our country, not for a handful of people, but for everyone. That's why I made a party and put in the National Assembly honest professionals ready to serve, not to draw privileges. And that's why you didn't see any hypocrisy from us, no scheming, no behind-the-scenes arrangements that you've been so accustomed to for years. At the beginning of this term, I said, that is, I quote, that the person can be born, live and die and the insect can live, but only the person can live a life useful to others. I can see well what is wrong with the Bulgarians right now, because our teams are also on line one, especially in pharmacies. I know how hard it is for most people, and I know how high their expectations are for all of us. The pandemic will pass, but many spoken words, actions or omissions of politicians Bulgarians will remember for a long time. And I'm sure they'll jump to conclusions this time. Awakening and Unity is the great process we are going through today as a nation and a country. Whoever didn't understand it will remain on yesterday's day beyond the change board. Decide whether you choose the past or the future, whether you will be the leaders of this change, or bystanders who are stuck in dependencies and fear like the current leaders of the European Union who fail before our eyes. Wise people say that every time he finds a way to sift out the real leaders. We see that time created conditions. Now we are on the move because of Bulgaria and the Bulgarian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u97	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Are there any other speeches? I can't see. There are no other speeches on this point. Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u98	Mr. Chairman, I would like to make a procedural proposal for clarification, on the one hand, in the text of this. 1 of the decision of the parliamentary group of GERB. Accordingly, a proposal was made from this tribune by colleague Tsonev the difference that will be obtained from this recalculation to go to the donor account of the Ministry of Health. I'd like to propose a t. 4 in the corresponding version to fulfil this condition. I propose the following editing: 1 of the Decision after the words 5 and so on. 6 of the Financial Rules of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, then the sentence to continue to the Members of the National Assembly, according to the monthly salary and so on, so that it is clear which remuneration we are talking about. And I propose to create a new t. 4 in which to write: The difference from the recalculated monthly remuneration under point 4 1 and 2 of the Decision on the persons referred to in paragraph 1. 1 et c. 3.................................................................... 3 are persons who receive salaries related to the salaries of the Members of the National Assembly are transferred to the Donation Account of the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u99	Can I have the text, Mrs. Stoyanova? [[Heckling]] Okay, if we have to, we'll meet. It became clear, but still. Are there lines? I can't see. I don't see any requests for speeches either. I am closing the debate on this. 1. We move on to item two of the agenda: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF BULGARIA FOR 2020 Importer is the Council of Ministers. Mrs. Stoyanova, you have the floor to introduce us to the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u100	This is the first time we're gonna try the new rules for second reading, right? The Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020 is amended and supplemented by the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Commission supports the proposal. According to § 1 an importer there is a proposal of the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly, which the Commission does not support. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. I should read the unsupported proposal, namely: I'll be right there. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced 1. In para. 2, the following amendments shall be made to the table: (a) in Section II. The amount of assigned - on line one. Ongoing costs. The number.11 339 208,1. is replaced by.11 369 208,1. - in row 1.2. The number "079,977,9" is replaced by "1 109,977,9" and other current transfers. - in line 1.2.1. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. - in row 2. "Capital expenditures' the number "supplied 2 888 353,1' is replaced by "supplied 2 468 098,55'. - in row 2.1. "Acquirement of fixed assets and major repairs' is replaced by "046 239,25" by "Acquirement of fixed assets and major repairs'. (b) in Section III. "Budget relationships (Transfers) " " net': - in Row III. "Transfers': the number "supplied' is replaced by "supplied': the number "supplied' is replaced by "supplied' and "supplied'. - on line one. Transfers provided for: "The number of.12 257 473,7 " is replaced by..15 121 745,25. - in row 1.1. - in row 1.2. The number of the public contribution is replaced by 6 656 548,42 and 312 531,4 and is replaced by the number of the public contribution. 2. In para. 3 the number "Six-two-eight-four-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-three- 45-five-seven. 3. In para. 4 the number..62 384.6...3 459.5..................................................................................... Mr. Chairman, I would like to proceed with Mrs. Cornelia Ninova's next proposal and a group of MPs, which is related to this so that the debate can be connected.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u101	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u102	There is a proposal for a new paragraph of Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support, namely: I'm sorry, ##1a 1c: supposed to be in the same condition as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way 1. In para. 1, the following amendments shall be made to the table: (a) in Section II. The amount of assigned - in line II. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 65000. - on line one. The number of the current expenditures is 1 488 248,1 " is replaced by 1 588 248,1 ". (b) in Section III. "Budget relationships (Transfers) " (+/-) " - in Row III. "Budget relationships (Transfers) " (+/-) " (the - on line one. The figure of the budget with the central budget (+/-) is replaced by the number of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the European Union. 2. In para. 2, the following amendments shall be made to the table: (a) of row 1. The number of jobs in the field of labour market, the free movement of workers and the labour migration and the number of jobs in the field of labour market, is replaced by the number of jobs in the field of labour market, the number of jobs and the number of jobs in the field of labour market, the number of jobs, the number of jobs in the field of labour market, the number of jobs, the number of jobs, the number of jobs, the number of b) of row "Everything's going to be replaced by "1 490 368,1' is replaced by "1 590 368,1' is replaced by "1 590 368,1'. § 1b. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 44 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1, the following amendments shall be made to the table: (a) in Section II. The amount of assigned - in line II. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 65000. - in row 1.2. The number of current transfers and other current transfers is.300 350,0. is replaced by.330 350,0. - in line 1.2.1. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. (b) in Section III. "Budget relationships (Transfers) " (+/-) " - in line III. "Budget relationships (Transfers) " (+/-) " (the number..402 - on line one. The budget of the budget for the central budget (+/-) is replaced by the number of the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the financial year for the financial year for 2. In para. 2, the following amendments shall be made to the table: (a) of row 1. "Politicals of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests in the Field of Agriculture and Rural Areas" "The number..333 732,4" is replaced by.363 732,4. b) of row "Everything's going to be replaced by "366 833.0' is replaced by "396 833.0' is replaced by "Everyone's going to be named after the number "366 833.0'. § 1c. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 50 in the introductory sentence, the number The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. Under § 3, there is a proposal by Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 68: 1. In para. 1 the number 2. In para. 2 Finally, the words are added as well as external government debt through loans from international financial institutions, including for financing projects and programmes. 3. The creation of para. 4. The maximum nominal volume of bonds that can be issued in the implementation of the medium-term debt issuance programme on the international markets under para. 2 (a limit of the programme) increases from 8 000 000 000 euros to 10 000 000 000 euros, with the Minister of Finance taking the actions provided for in the contracts and the act under para. 2. The Commission shall support paragraphs 4, 5, 6 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u103	I'm opening the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the House, Dear Minister! In such a difficult and critical time, when our health system is failing, what you are doing, or rather not doing in the budget, is that with these measures that you have foreseen, hospitals are practically being shut down in this situation, in this crisis. Yesterday at the Belgrade Hospital because of the inability to meet the requirements and orders of the Ministry of Health mass doctors have resigned and it is facing closure. The fate of the Belgrade hospital will be followed by many such small hospitals, because you have not provided for anything in the budget as a help to them either to municipalities, and you have rejected our proposal for assistance to municipalities for the ten percent, you have rejected the proposal for targeted aid from the state to such hospitals at all. How will the minister meet the requirements of the health card, as Vidin District will practically remain with a functioning hospital at this time and this is the district hospital in Vidin? You condemn people to doom and suffering, to the inability to treat themselves at all, not just by the coronavirus, but at all by their access to health care. Today it's the Belgrade Hospital, tomorrow it'll be different. I call on you, Members of the National Assembly, make the budget adjustments, see the small hospitals that are.. I am setting an example with the Belogradchik because the case is from yesterday. Help these hospitals, provide targeted assistance, and although they are municipal, to the municipalities of these hospitals in which they are located, to the hospitals themselves special measures so that they can continue to function and treat the Bulgarian population. Again, not only from a coronavirus, these people there will not have access to health care at all, because the nearest Vidin hospital is and it is 70 km from Belogradchik and from the region. In these difficult conditions, when transport does not function at least when there are no buses, because transport companies have put their workers on the market because they cannot fulfil their commitments and are practically bankrupt, you condemn them to lack of access to health care in emergency measures, and that is when we fight against such an infection. This is unacceptable, this is at least immoral, and I do not see how you will vote on these measures in this budget, knowing what the consequences are. Therefore, I call on you: sit down once again, take our measures.. those for municipalities, make another estimate to help these hospitals and these people mostly who need their hospitals in the respective locality, in the respective region, because the rest is death and suffering for the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u105	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Yordanov, a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u106	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, literally a few hours after the Minister of Health's order for restrictive measures was issued in the activities of medical institutions regardless of their nature, we were overwhelmed with phone calls, e-mails, personal meetings with medical colleagues who correctly assessed at the outset that the method of financing the medical activity in the Republic of Bulgaria is faced with a serious problem. Because they will not be able to meet the requirements of the Health Insurance Fund, they will not be able to offer this volume of medical services that would allow their medical facilities, hospitals, outpatient care facilities, dental offices to function. That is why I was pleased to learn that an update of the state budget was being proposed, thinking that there would be part of it the so-called small budget of the Health Insurance Fund. Unfortunately, from this platform I would like to tell all Bulgarian medics that those who are on the front front are not respected with even one sentence in the update of the budget and they are not provided for a penny of the updated state budget. A moment ago, colleague Popov spoke about the first reaction of colleagues from Belogradchik. Absolutely realistic, assessing that in these conditions they were put in agony that they would not work normally, they preferred not to agonize, to submit their resignations honestly and to seek their destiny elsewhere. This is only the first hospital, then there will be other hospitals, and not only municipal but also state hospitals, because at the end of this month, when colleagues need to receive the income from the Health Insurance Fund, they will understand that they are not more than 50%, but for some hospitals and up to 20% of those they need. Dear colleagues, today with the refusal not to include the health network in the update of the state budget and the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, we are putting the existence of the medical network in the Republic of Bulgaria, the opportunity to make a gesture to those who are on the front line, and we are actually giving up their help because without funding you know very well that we cannot expect any activity. And here I want to open a clamp, because with the so-made PR by a famous Bulgarian politician with his thousand leva for those medics who are on the front line, led to the fact that there are currently scandals among those who are on the front line because it turns out that under what the Health Ministry introduces, those who are really on the front line can not receive the money they are talking about. I therefore call on you, in urgent order, for the Ministry of Health to make its proposal to finance Bulgarian hospitals of all kinds, including dental offices and pharmacies, because we risk being without a health network and this will be detrimental to our country in the conditions of a pandemic with a COVID-19.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u107	Thank you. Any lines to Mr. Yordanov? I can't see. Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Mr. Minister, I'm addressing you because you're the man who's offering to protect what you've offered. I would like to draw your attention to a problem that we have proposed with a budget change, but I suppose the Budget Committee is not in this problem and has not paid attention to it, but I hope you will pay attention to it and discuss it. Even if it is not accepted now, discuss it with the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, because this will be a future problem. We, with you and with all the MPs, are of the same opinion that our country has gone into recession because of the coronavirus and we are of the same opinion that the recession will turn into an economic and financial crisis. I think that makes no difference. We will not be far from the truth and everyone will probably agree that this crisis will be more serious than the 2008 crisis. In 2009, at least all specialists in the economy and in the financial sphere claim it. From everything I say, it means that the labour market in Bulgaria will be seriously affected by this crisis. The Ministry of Finance states in its reasons for the update of the budget that probably not all companies will be able to benefit from the measures 60/40 "We will improve the measure safely, other measures will be proposed, but not all will be able to benefit and keep their people in their jobs. In the estimates and the reasons for the budget update you point out, Mr. Minister, a forecast for an increase in the unemployment rate by only 2.2%. The employment agency's data will soon come out for March, but I think we already have an increase of 1.5 to 2 percent compared to December 2019, so I think the Ministry of Finance is being very optimistic about this. With different assumptions and on my expert assessment, I think that by the end of the year the number of unemployed in Bulgaria will reach 325 000 registered. This means that in the case of registered 202,000 and 500 unemployed at the end of February, an increase of about 125 thousand, and an unemployment rate of around 10%, i.e. by 5.9% at the end of last year and slightly below 195 thousand registered at the end of 2019, we will have an increase of 4%. You assume it's going to be 2.2 percent. At the same time, in the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, which we adopted on 5 December 2019, art. The budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy provides for a policy in the field of the labour market, free movement of workers and labour migration at the moment, as it is now, to be financed by 108 million. 890 thousand. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in In practice, this is the National Employment Action Plan, this is how the state, with active measures and policies, subsidy programmes and direct impact on the labour market... In this action plan, which was made as a result of the adopted budget of 109 million. BGN, the motto is for increasing the activity and quality of human capital. Of course, this employment action plan has been developed by experts, by specialists and in the financial sphere, I suppose, especially in the social and employment areas, approved by the social partners, not to go on, you know what this is about. However, this action plan has been made under quite other conditions, on condition that unemployment will be 6%, that the economy will go up in progress. It does not reflect in any way the current state, and once the ban measures are passed and the emergency situation is cancelled, the time will come when we will have to solve many tasks in the labour market. How with that little money,.. 108 thousand. lv.? I would just like to point out to you that in 2008 The National Employment Action Plan was financed by 180 million. BGN, and now 108 million. lv. with a higher minimum wage, average wage and so on. I see I'm running out of time. I would like to draw your attention to this problem and I think it is extremely important: 100 million. lv. Against the backdrop of all the money we're going to spend around the crisis, 100 million. lv. increased, the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for the National Action Plan will have a much greater effect than any other money and support measures. Think about this and discuss it with the Minister of Labour and Social Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u109	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Are there any lines to Mr. Gokov? I can't see. Mr. Minister, you wanted the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u110	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I allow myself to request the floor in order to make an explanation regarding the concerns regarding the financing of hospital care facilities and other contract partners of the Health Insurance Fund in the crisis period. Undoubtedly, the restrictions that have been imposed on the activities of medical institutions and the contractual partners of outpatient care, including specialized extra-hospital assistance and dental offices, are of limited effect and it is possible that I do not like this term, but it was necessary in the Bulgarian tradition of medicine to make their work considerably smaller during this period. This work will not be reported in the financing of medical institutions during the crisis. The mechanism that is being prepared and currently under the Supervisory Board of the Health Insurance Fund will provide for funding to be reduced for this period to 85% of the average monthly work of these institutions and of the contractual partners in general, both from outpatient care and dental care. Why 85%, why not 100%? An assessment has been made that the issue in the activity should also lead to some element of saving from clinical pathways due to the fact that no real medical activity has actually been carried out in these hospitals, i.e. they will not be 20 or 30 or 40% of their work normally. This model is agreed with the Medical Union and is forthcoming, after the meeting of the Supervisory Board of the Health Insurance Fund, to be re-subscribed the National Framework Treaty. In our view, this will ensure the functioning of medical institutions and temporarily, I can say, will be derogated the principle on which, normally, in a normal situation, the contract partners of the Health Insurance Fund function. As far as the National Employment Action Plan is concerned. You know that it was made in quite other conditions and reality, but a large part of the measures that could be put into it, we have included them in the function of the Fund "Unemployment" with the exceptional measure that operates and which is more known as subsidising some of the remuneration of employers, which have limited opportunities as a result or as a result of the restrictions imposed by the health authorities, on the one hand, and on the realities, on the other.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u111	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Taskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u112	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Let us not forget, in relation to what you have said, that at the moment the costs of the medical institutions are actually higher in this state of emergency and we cannot reduce them to 85%. One proposal: because one of the ways of financing, especially of municipal and small hospitals, is with sums under the Health Insurance Fund, and the Ministry of Health, as for all activities that are not regulated under the Health Insurance Fund for remoteness and the like, it is to increase them to 100% so that there can be some luft, these people and these establishments remain. If two months in a row municipal healthcare is on the verge of such a financial collapse, it will literally end its existence, and it will be absolutely serious. Another question is what is going on with the SCCs, with the specialists of the hospital care, including with the personal doctors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u113	Thank you, Mr. Taskov. Are there any lines? I won't. Mrs. Yankova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u114	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister Goranov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I will motivate our proposal, which concerns the funds for the Bulgarian municipalities. 1, para. 2, Section III, row. 1.1. Our proposal is for them to grow to 4 billion. 622 million. $800,000. BGN, which is 10% more than the current amount, which has been determined 202 million. $545,000. BGN, or we offer an increase of 420 million. 355,000. lv. What are the reasons for doing this? In the Committee on Budget and Finance, we shared that we would make a proposal addressed to the finance minister to carefully see the whole package of flexible proposals that municipalities have made on individual possibilities to relocate finances to internal relations. Dear Minister, honourable Members of Parliament, under the conditions of the emergency situation, we all know that local authorities have assumed and continue to fulfil their responsibilities and commitments assigned to them by both the Emergency Act and the Orders of the Minister of Health and the recommendations of the National Operational Headquarters. For this purpose, at local level, many resources have been mobilized - human, material, financial - so that municipalities continue to provide basic services to the population related to the lives and health of people, to guarantee the stability of both the state and the work of its authorities in the municipalities themselves. Because a large part of the tasks that municipalities undertake in this emergency are outside the scope of the traditional legally binding commitments of local authorities, in the first two and a half months we all know that the revenue from local taxes and fees is small. The Emergency Act caught them on 13 March, the Bulgarian Parliament extended the state of emergency and the flexible measures proposed by the municipal councils and mayors to be able to pay local taxes and fees later, and that is natural, since people have to stay home very early perhaps in the middle or at the end of May the municipalities will start to have a shortage of support funds. We are not talking here about the delegated state activities to ensure the work and functioning of the municipal separate activities and institutions, there will be opportunities... The municipalities have concerns about street lighting, about maintaining cleanliness in the municipalities themselves, the many funds that come as commitment and obligation, with this small resource they will not have the opportunity to cover it. That is why our proposal is reasonable, and I suggest you think about it, and I suggest that the Minister sees this call of municipalities to increase the budget by 10%, by 420 million. lv. Along with that, Mr. Minister, the fact that you're here, I'd like to give you a hint and more buffers that stand frozen and that could be given to the municipalities. We all know that under the Waste Management Act, under art. Art. 60, Art. 64, the municipalities allocate some funds to the accounts of the RIEW, and according to the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, these resources are not few, these resources could now be released and this resource could cover precisely that resource that is needed for a waste charge, for cleaning, for disinfecting, because this resource that the municipalities are now spending unconventionally and for which they will not always spend the funds for the first two and a half months, then they will not have opportunities. And the net that comes out after the disease, and what is found for people who are quarantined, allows many public places to further deworm and more and more financial resources. Therefore, I appeal to all Members of Parliament: support the proposal! It is motivated, it stems from care for municipalities and for all people, Bulgarian citizens who will receive through the budget and through this little increase of stability of municipalities. May God grant such a time for the municipalities to be able to collect their taxes and taxes. Then in a more flexible dialogue they could actually invest them and be for the good of the citizens who live in the Bulgarian municipalities. Therefore, I call on you: support the proposal! It's reasonable. If we are not going to make a further update, the support funds will very quickly need them and begin to miss them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Mr. Mihov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u116	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yesterday, opposition leader Mrs. Nino made one statement that the budget provides two and a half billion for military projects. This statement deserves attention, it is related to the Left's proposal, which we will not support. I will try to explain why this statement is not true and why it is harmful. First of all, we have to say that the total amount of the two projects, which are in favour of the project for two multi-purpose patrol ships and the acquisition of a new infantry fighting machine, is approximately accurate, but this money is not foreseen in the budget because both projects are long-term. The ship's project envisions a six-year implementation, with the production of the first ship to begin the second year and finish at the end of the fourth year and the second ship to finish by the fifth year. The infantry war machine project is planned to be implemented in 12 years, with 150 battle machines to be obtained in the eighth year. The payments are deferred and this is a condition of the contract to the 10th year of the 12th year, with these amounts naturally divided by the term of these two contracts being far below the declared value. Why is this proposal wrong? In the context of an economic crisis, the role of the state is extremely high, and this is known by every student who has studied a bit thoroughly politics. The cycle of economic development is in the conditions of the crisis, the state has a wide intervention toolkit from financial, economic and regulatory measures. However, this crisis has no economic, no economic character, it is caused by something else, but that does not mean that it will have no economic consequences, that is clear. Why should the two projects not be stopped? Because the left-wing proposal means putting a cross on these two projects. I'll try to explain briefly. The project for the infantry fighting machine is in negotiations with three companies that have shown extremely great interest in the implementation of the project, especially one of them offers wide industrial cooperation beyond the terms of the project, such as the construction of a joint venture with high performance capabilities and the possibility of producing ten types of infantry fighting machines with the right to export to third countries. The project provides for implementation of 12 years and under the project conditions it is included that it is mandatory that the maintenance of this technique takes place in Bulgaria throughout the life cycle of the technique, which is equal to no less than 30 years, which basically means the creation of a Bulgarian modern company for high-tech product with re-export capabilities and guaranteed service of Bulgarian equipment in Bulgarian enterprises. This means, for the most part, the money from the Bulgarian taxpayers to stay in Bulgaria and create jobs. The second project for the ships. He's far more advanced than the question of the war machine. The interdepartmental working group has already ranked one firm, and this report has been voted by the Council of Ministers. The firm's offer is within the financial parameters of 984 million, and in economic terms exceeds the terms of the offer. Instead of one, it is proposed that both ships be built in Bulgarian shipyards. Negotiations are pending to improve the bids. What does it mean if we accept that these projects are now frozen? This means for a long time to put a cross on projects for modernization of the armed forces. Secondly, that means missing a good time. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done. In times of crisis there is a decline in the demand for weapons equipment and special production and this showed it the state of our arms sector. If in recent years the prices of this production have increased, in times of crisis we have the opportunity to achieve better prices and better conditions for the realization of these two projects, which will be realized in Bulgarian enterprises, which will open Bulgarian jobs and allow for co-production and delivery of a wide range of Bulgarian industry. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u117	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. - What's the line? The line, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Mihov, not only you in your speech, but also other colleagues from your parliamentary group, have paid attention to what the opposition calls for, namely to revise the projects for military modernisation. Mr. Mihov, I would like to remind you that this announcement was made by your government by the Prime Minister, Finance Minister Goranov, who is currently not in the Chamber, so do not blame the opposition for what we are talking about. We share what you have also spoken and suggested. In your speech, I see that you are competent in matters of modernization of the Bulgarian Army. I have two questions for you. First of all, is the information that came out of the Pentagon true that the planes about which last year... You know, we've argued a lot here in this room, again about withdrawing debt, and paying two billion dollars for some blueprints that we'll probably get these planes on in 2027. Do you justify what you did then and do you think that the US economy could benefit from these two billion leva instead of this difficult situation that the Bulgarian economy would have benefited from this money? And my other question is: with these projects that I see you know well, will it not happen as it seems to happen to this project I mentioned to the Bulgarian Army fighters? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u119	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. Another line? Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u120	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Mihov, it is becoming increasingly clear the correctness of our thesis that we should not have rushed with this deal for these two billion is half for the planes only, and even less to continue with other such military costs. We call on the government and the ruling majority, referring to a force major or to the government's personal contacts, or personally to the prime minister with President Trump, to ask for the suspension of this deal and the return of this money, which, to date, is seen to be vital to the Bulgarian people. First, let's get our money back from there. Secondly, let's stop all other costs because I do not see any Bulgarian politician, but no Bulgarian who is currently thinking about arming. Everyone's thinking about feeding, health care, education, but not arming. There is no Bulgarian except the colleagues from IMRO and their minister. I'm sure I'll hear a lot of things, but I must remind you that at this point, at which point, eventually we'll get those planes if the company doesn't go bankrupt by then, no one will probably use planes in the modern military world at that time. And to give you an example of one of the most powerful economic and even worse in your case military states, namely Saudi Arabia. How many F-16 and F-35 aircraft first owned and how many of them used to protect their economy when they attacked them with drones and virtually destroyed their entire oil sector? So we're very behind, that is, we're not behind, but with these measures that you're predicting, supposedly, to modernize the army, you're bringing it back to the past because to the moments you're talking about [[the President signals that time has run out]] No one will use such armored machines or even less aircraft. I think then everything will be grounded.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u121	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u122	I use to be here, Mr. Chairman, in the manner of conduct...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u123	You can't...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u124	By the way, I'm entitled if you give me your word.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u125	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u126	I watched very closely Mr. Mihov's time was running by about 20%. All those speaking from all the parliamentary groups are delaying their time, and if you do not notice it, I will be forced to show it to you because I am speaking two or three times and you are literally interrupting me in a second. I will ask you for equal rights for all, if not, we will tell you when the time of the others is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u127	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Is there another line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u128	Dear Mr. Chairman, I'm going to ask you to be as strict as you were as an officer in the unit where we served together. I am prepared to comply with your regulations. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] For F-16. Thank you for your question, and thank you for your evaluation. He's an example of false news. Information that the contract will be implemented by 2027 does not mean that the aircraft will be delivered by then. The contract ends with all those commitments on delivery, training, equipment and so on, correctly by 2027, but Bulgarian aircraft, as far as we have public information, I assume that you have read it, are already set for production by the American side. This can be argued, it is officially declared that the timetable for the delivery of aircraft will be fulfilled and it is, I repeat, 2023 The answer to your second question is very easy. If the other projects are implemented in the way the project is now moving with F-16, I am calm about the future of modernization of the Bulgarian armed forces. Mr. Mareshki, I understand that you, in addition to everything else related to your business, understand very well the development of the armed forces, the future of the wars in the next era, and I cannot argue with you, because obviously I am not your authority and expert opinion, so I humbly hold back. I guess if you're principled and you want the Americans to give us our money back, take the Russians to give us back the MiG-29 money we're renovating there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u129	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Here you are, Mr. Botsev. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria will not support the proposed update of the budget by the government, as there are significant questions to which we have not received an answer. First of all, why do you propose to vote on 10-billion government debt, with the necessary amount of 4.2 billion? 3.5 billion for the budget deficit and 700 million for the Bulgarian Development Bank? Secondly, why, since we have over ten billion fiscal reserves, do we not use some of the funds in it? Thirdly, why not provide the necessary funds by reducing the capital expenditure in the budget? Fourth, after years of saying that there is a conservative fiscal policy, there should have been enough funds to deal with the current crisis situation, unfortunately, budget surpluses were spent at the end of each year. There is also no means in your proposed update to compensate for the reduced revenues and increased costs of municipalities for additional activities such as disinfection and others required to counter the epidemic. Our proposals are: a subsidy in the amount of one minimum wage, including insurance for each month from the emergency situation for all employees of a private sector contract; a subsidy in the amount of one minimum wage, including insurance for self-employed persons who cannot work because of the exceptional measures. The above two measures concern 420 thousand employed and self-employed "with the amount being 914 million. BGN, and is for a period of three months. We also propose an additional transfer from the state budget to the municipalities' budgets, amounting to an additional 10% above what has been laid down so far as compensation for reduced own revenues, as well as for additional actions such as disinfection and others which are required to counter the epidemic. The amount we're offering is 420 million. lv. We offer exemption from waste tax and sidewalk law for the months in which companies do not operate and are closed following government orders. We propose a VAT return exemption for the period of emergency of junk food, an increase of 100 million. lv. the funds under the National Employment Action Plan due to the expected drastic increase in unemployment, priority and urgent subsidisation of farmers from sub-sectors In total, the measures proposed by us are worth a billion 464 million. BGN, which we believe can be provided by reducing the capital costs. I believe that our proposals are reasonable and effective and are in support of the people and businesses in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u131	Thank you, dear Mr. Botsev. Are there any lines? Mr. Lambev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u132	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, although colleagues and coworkers are few in the Chamber! I will not focus on these measures that we propose as a parliamentary group, not because they are not good, but because I would like to focus on time beyond the completion of sanitary measures. What awaits us after them is economic depression, which will have its social character and tension. After this crisis, the Bulgarian economy will most likely be broken down. Sorry for the word I use. The small and medium-sized business in Bulgaria will be hit the hardest, and the blow to the so-called middle class in Bulgaria, or rather the remnants of it, will also be a blow to democracy. Where there is no middle class, there is no democracy. That is why my appeal to the government is much clearer to articulate the socio-economic and financial measures it takes, much clearer to explain what lies ahead for the Bulgarian citizen, because at the moment the main threat and concern of the Bulgarian citizen is the ignorance and ambiguity of tomorrow for every household, for every working Bulgarian, for all of us. It is clear that the ruling coalition, in rejecting our proposals, decided to take full political responsibility for the crisis, its dimensions and its consequences. I think that at such times, much more national and more state-responsible behaviour would be if our measures found a place in the package, so that all political forces in consensus could contribute to dealing with this difficult situation, which will yet be deepened in an economic-social aspect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u133	Thank you, Mr. Lambev. - What's the line? I won't. Mrs. Bachvarova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u134	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! We have made a proposal, which is modest at first glance, to support farmers. At first glance, because the resource that we offer is 30 million. BGN is related to urgent measures to support the sector, and in those two months in which the emergency situation is under way. We believe that agricultural production needs this support, because the crisis will mostly affect sensitive sectors. The reasons for making this proposal relate only to the situation we are currently in, with the problems that each farmer faces with supplies, with prices, with the way trade, distribution is implemented, but also with European practices that we need to monitor accordingly, we must also do what is necessary to implement them according to our capabilities. What are the reasons? First of all, the sector is not in the case of support for income or for those who are exempted from the tax. We are talking about the sector of agriculture, forests and fisheries. This sector employs about 60 000 employed, 45 000 self-employed, and total registered farmers are from 90 to 100 thousand each year. The thesis, you see, we are getting European funds and this is enough to be sustainable and to develop, seems inadequate in the situation in which these holdings are placed. Secondly, problems arise in production, supply of resources, supply of labour, distribution. These are all factors that other countries have assessed and the European Commission has come up with urgent, temporary measures to support the agricultural sector. They are expressed in two directions. First, an increase in state aid for agriculture to 100 thousand. EUR., together with the de minimis, which has the right to be realized in the sector, that is 125 thousand. euros per farm. And those dealing with the processing and marketing of agricultural goods are entitled to up to 800 thousand. EUR State aid. We should note that this decision of the Bulgarian Government for State support does not require special permission from the European Commission, because these are state aids to which we are entitled. In any case, the State Fund....... has some resources for State aid. Annually, it's about 300 million. BGN, but this resource has already been allocated, part of it has been spent. What can be realized as an economy will be seen only in the months of September, October, November, when it can be distributed, but the problems are now. We insist that serious attention should be paid to the sector because the fact and what our colleague Lambev said that we were very easy to get into emergency situations, but very difficult to come up with, and the sector is one of those that is currently, if no expenditure is made, if not invested, no production can be expected. This will reflect in July, August, September. It's funny, I say it as an observation that we first look at the budget, then we look at the measurements. For agriculture, there is little, except one, there is some fiction about hiring under monthly contracts, that is, there is absolutely no step in that direction. I would like at least if, at this stage, you do not accept and do not want to enter into the situation in which the sector is located, from the point of view of support and financing, at least to make the necessary estimates and to see the possibility of taking the necessary steps next month and to ensure that these funds are needed in order to continue production and to seek those opportunities that are adequate and other countries apply them. I always regret that in Bulgaria agriculture is not a priority sector in terms of state support, there are always situations where it is believed that it can survive. No, it cannot survive because in the European Union we must be equal, we have the same conditions for development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Mareshki, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u136	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! First, I want to share my thought, which is based not so much on learning as on logic, because as many professors and generals now I cannot shine with my engineering. The idea that you, as a government, have a huge desire to punish the Bulgarian people with these measures at the moment, somehow logically does not make sense to me, because just before that these same critics were talking about how you, almost in the dark, spend excesses and therefore see inside this corruption scheme. The two things intersect. And my logic is rather the first that the government has the greatest interest in not having the state in crisis, not having such measures, everyone to work, to live well, to fill the treasury and to be able to you as a government in the form of both investment and social measures to continue to do your job. I am convinced that in principle everything that is being offered at the moment is only in the interests of the life and health of the people and the preservation of the Bulgarian state. I am also convinced that you will take enough measures to stop all the optional payments that we have previously voted on in the budget, and therefore I will not dwell on all such payments. I will only stress once again the possibility of huge sums being saved and rerouted more appropriately, by stopping the so-called investments in arms, not in the Bulgarian army, but in arming. Outside of everything else, we continue to argue that this is also a deal for us that hides a huge corruption risk, but even if there is no corruption risk, they are absolutely ineffective, especially to date. So we insist that you make these budget corrections. The second, however, which we think is also important, is what I have heard even from my colleagues from BSP, and it is clear to every sober Bulgarian that even now on 13 April the state of emergency is over, even if it ends on 30 April or 13 May. God forbid it ends earlier, but this does not mean an instant revival of the Bulgarian people and the Bulgarian economy. Then the tail, the crisis will be much bigger. We believe that the debt you are about to withdraw will not be sufficient. We will be faced literally in weeks or months in a procedure of new adjustment of the state budget. We therefore call on all Members of Parliament, and you as a government, to take such a decision and to increase the possibility of not necessarily spending it, the ability of the government to have a much larger buffer, with the minimum that we demand from the Vol is doubled to 20 billion, and I believe that this will not be enough as well. I believe that when Bulgaria recovers, the Bulgarian people and the economy start working, we will be able to recover this money at very low rates and in a very long period. But to date, the whole business, the whole Bulgarian people expect help, expect support and therefore these measures should be taken now. The colleague was talking about supporting farmers. Which farmers? Grandma in the village, who also watches potatoes, is she a farmer? Let us be more specific and really be more powerful, not helpful, but more powerful and more tangible for the economy. And a possible correction. What many businessmen have called about is clear that the measure 60/40 is suitable for some is poorly suited for some and absolutely inappropriate for others. So maybe you need to look for some more flexibility. I believe that the change with just one digit of this proposal would make it much more working, namely with the number four. That's not 60/40, that's 60/0. We heard that from almost all business representatives and people. We see that they do it in other countries. I think that doesn't hurt the budget either. So think about this proposal of ours. Otherwise, we will support the budget adjustment and even insist on a more serious budget adjustment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u137	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. - What's the line? You have the floor for a line, Mrs. Taskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u138	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'd like to address Mr. Mareshki with a quote he didn't get tired of repeating for three years. He supports the fact that the deal on our re-arming must be stopped right now. This quote was actually uttered by this tribune, and I, and Mr. Hristov, and many of our colleagues from Volya, but most of all Mr. Mareshki kept repeating this and now history will give even more meaning to the speech. Before you spend huge defense funds, you need to create such a level of life for people that they are ready to protect it themselves. Now is the time I think you should appreciate this statement. It's a quote from a real statesman. We've done it a lot... [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Mareshki, to you is the line, yes, so you can really stop these deals.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u139	Thank you. Another line? Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u140	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Mareshki, I couldn't understand much from your speech because it was very vague. But what I have understood is that you, in fact, as chairman of a party, as a Bulgarian patriot, are against the Bulgarian state for the next 10 years, not now, at the moment, to modernise your army and a huge part of the equipment, ships, repair and maintenance of armored machines to be carried out in Bulgaria, i.e. the state to bring money into Bulgarian production. And this is what we are currently wondering about how to help Bulgarian companies in order to survive, create jobs and not to close jobs. That is, as a businessman, as a patriot, as a patriot, you are against the Bulgarian state to devote some funds in the next 12 years to guarantee both the national security of the state and you are against this money entering the Bulgarian economy, to keep jobs. Because now that this crisis is over, there's gonna be a lot of people who are already on the street, they're already at the labor desks, they're gonna be out of work. We are talking that the state should see what priorities there are and where the state directs funds to support Bulgarian production, the state should continue to do so because this will stimulate the Bulgarian economy! You know this very well because you're a businessman. It's just that it's obviously not politically beneficial for you to say that. I understand you're a specialist in all matters. Personally, if the ruling majority were to decide, I would personally support you if you were offered as minister on all matters, but without a wallet, because otherwise you have a thick wallet, so without a portfolio on all matters Minister, I would personally vote for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u141	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Is there a third line? Mr. Mareshki, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u142	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Angelov! Dear Mrs. Taskova, first of all! Thank you for the line. Not only have I not claimed knowledge of everything, but repeatedly, self-ironizing and at all, ironicizing the whole situation, I say that too many professors, docs, generals and all sorts of other people grew up and gave each other all kinds of ideas that contradict each other. As a simple engineer of my logic, I rely most on it. But since you clearly don't understand me when I'm talking to you, I'm going to read to you now, so you can understand better what a true patriot, a true general, a real warlord from World War II, who, thanks to his popularity, has become president. [[Relations from the National Representative Julian Angelov.]] We're talking about General Mannerheim. Look what he said! I'll read it to you so you don't say that I'm not telling you in a way that gets to your mind. Before you spend huge defense funds, you need to create such a level of life for people that they are ready to protect it. Since you will not understand this true patriot, I will translate it for you. We are not against the spending of arms, we are for the more effective use of them, one. But above all, as this true patriot said, after the people live so that they have something to protect. I hope that now that I have quoted it to you and explained it to you in simpler words, you have understood it and really made the right decisions, which the true patriots have made, namely to increase the well-being of the Bulgarians, to solve the problems of health, police and income. Then, for God's sake, I'll be the first to support you in arms spending. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u143	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Next statement? Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u144	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Our proposals today to update the budget are related to ensuring our socio-economic alternative measures that we propose to deal with the crisis that the coronavirus has led to. I would like to make a quote and thus begin: "Health is the complete physical, mental and social well-being of an individual, and not just the lack of sickness or disability. " - This is a definition of the World Health Organization. Therefore, in addition to the health measures we are proposing, we must offer citizens alternative, adequate, real economic measures. Our concern for the citizens is growing that beyond these measures, which will be compensation for people's incomes, there will remain a very large part of the people - those from small businesses, micro-enterprises and self-insuring persons. In this emergency situation, fear is getting bigger, but rather not the fear of the disease itself, but the fear of our existence, of what happens tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, in two or three months. The fear is whether we can pay our rent, whether a mother who stayed home on unpaid leave to raise her child, because she can't go to kindergarten, will be able to feed him, watch him and support him. That's what people are worried about. And they follow the quotes from the government: "We intend to reach out to everyone who needs it. " - The other one for the marginals, I will miss it because people should not be offended once again. Intentions don't feed people. These measures must come to them in reality. And more and more we see and it became clear that the famous and praised measure 60/40 is not working. Because who can take advantage? Most likely a small percentage of only those who have a decline in their activity of 20% working enterprises, because the other ones of small and medium-sized businesses cannot pay those 40%, which have to pay up to the entire gross wage of citizens. Yes, now you will offer certain adjustments, but this will not be enough and a very small percentage of the business will actually be able to take advantage of it. We're all seeing it now. It's scary and scary, but these people will still be able to get unemployment benefits. The other group remains the ones on unpaid leave or are self-insuring persons. Measures to support and compensate for the economic consequences of the emergency situation must be the same for all of us, as you say, that they must reach everyone. The state should not share businesses with businesses, businesses and those who provide themselves. In this emergency situation, the state must not distinguish between the worker who is under contract and those who are self-employed from the free professions. The European Commission also noted that in this situation it is necessary to take measures to reduce the impact on employment by supporting not only employees under a contract of employment but also self-employed ones. You give examples in each briefing, in each statement how well we are doing, how, you see, from Europe they praise us. Well, then let's take an example from other European countries. In addition to the measures that you may be offering for credit for these self-employed and self-insured persons, there needs to be financial support from the state as do other European countries. Let's take an example from them. Because the consequences for people with free professions will be extremely severe. These are people who don't have any current income at the moment. The others who are on unpaid leave. I'm from an area where there's a lot of sewing businesses. You know what they tell me? They're literally forced to go on unpaid leave. These are people who live from paycheck to paycheck. These people don't have savings, these people don't have Maybach. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call on you to vote on this update and on the means that we propose so that we can secure the measures that will then be proposed by us in the Law on Measures and Actions during the emergency situation. These are all self-employed self-employed persons and those on unpaid leave to be able to receive a minimum wage in order to still have a minimum basic income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u145	Thank you. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Georgiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, since it has been a matter of agriculture here several times, we are offering 30 million for the sub-sectors for vegetable production, forestry and livestock farmers. It is also good for Mrs. Stoyanova who came out and Mr. Mareshki to read the agricultural reports. There they will see very well where Bulgaria is in terms of national food security. The assessment of the change in consumption, expressed by the ratio of domestic production/import, is an indicator of the country's food security. This shows that Bulgaria is a food dependent country. It is considered that if more than one-fifth of the foodstuffs that the population mainly consumes are imported, then the country is dependent on food. This could lead to a dictation of imports and to a worsening of the conditions for national food production. Bulgaria, unfortunately, is in this situation and in the agricultural reports this thing is noted. The 50th position Bulgaria holds with a 59.6% index of food security in an international survey involving 106 countries is also confirmed. Unfortunately, Bulgaria is a member of the EU with the lowest index of food security, measured according to three main indicators: level of accessibility and consumption of food products; availability and sufficient supply; quality and safety of products. And now in this crisis related to the corona virus, if the borders are closed, the so-called green corridors, yes, Bulgaria is in the eleventh place on wheat exports, and we are from recently very much developed at the moment a country with monocultural production, what will we do with the satisfaction of fruit, vegetables and animal products? In a speech I said in vain about a German journalist who regretfully mentioned that in Bulgaria are producing sausages from Bavarian pigs. Unfortunately, our country in this national food security must have adequate solutions, and I think that at this point in time, this coronavirus crisis must have a reformation of agricultural policy and some of these measures that we are proposing are related precisely in this direction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u147	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Is there a line? Line, Mrs. Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u148	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Georgiev! I would like to remind you that we are currently looking at an update of the budget, which is being imposed on us to look at it because of this crisis, in which we all need to give maximum effort to help, indeed, both businesses and producers, but to get out of it and not to look at a budget that will make it seem like we are going to live in the crisis forever from now on! This should be some kind of emergency here and now, not forever. Therefore, I ask you not to talk in principle about any assistance, but to speak specifically now in the crisis. And it is good to think about it in this situation, after a little while when wages are actually voted, to support our proposal for a minimum wage, because at least there will not be a lot of money spent on those who are not aware of what they are dealing with.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u149	Thank you, Mrs. Taskova. Is there a second line? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I thought I made myself pretty clear. The state's food security is extremely important and at such a time it shows that we do not have such security. This is an element of national security, and I strongly urge you again to read the latest agricultural reports, and you yourself will come to these conclusions. As far as the specifics are concerned, I have been contacted by farmers, the Ministry of Agriculture proposes a measure related to slaughterhouses, in Bulgaria there are 64 slaughterhouses, to provide up to three and a half million funds to be provided for intermediaries between small farmers up to 500 lambs, and the commercial network. These same keepers ask me: "Okay, and why are we not assisted by them and help the intermediaries with the slaughterhouses? " Here, I am asking you a specific question: how will the state during these two or three months, because we do not know how long this crisis will last, with what will we help these small farmers in particular? Because a farmer called me last night and says, "We're looking at 200 goats, we have kids, we want to sell them, right now two slaughterhouses are failing us." Here are the specific questions I want answered by someone from the Ministry of Agriculture! Or I was contacted by apples producers. In the large chains, this problem, which we at BSP repeatedly put here, related to the Food Act for the large chains, as in Romania, has been required by 50% compulsory Romanian production of agricultural products. Ms. Taneva said we'd try, negotiate, they promised. No promises, colleagues, no promises! They should be obliged to sell our Bulgarian production, albeit minimally where there is now. So, Mrs. Taskova, it is really important to raise these issues from the stands for Bulgaria's national food security policy. I'm saying there isn't one. Thank you for your attention. [[Replyes: "Bravo!" by "BSP for Bulgaria".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u151	Thank you. Mrs. Klisurska, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u152	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I sincerely regret that at the moment the Minister of Finance is not sitting here, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy is not sitting here, because, as Mrs. Taskova said, the measures we are going to take now, the budget that we are going to vote on now will decide the fate of the Bulgarian citizens today and now. Unfortunately, what we are offered in the budget in no way meets that need, those Bulgarian citizens who are currently without any income, how they will deal with this emergency situation. It's only been 20 days since this state of emergency, and it's affecting the economy badly, unemployment is rising. Only two days ago the unemployed were 31,000, now there are 40,000. Companies are down, consumption is down. And what does the state propose? If we look at the statistics and what is happening at the moment, 60 thousand enterprises in Bulgaria are stopped because of this emergency situation, 350 thousand companies in Bulgaria are currently affected by the crisis, more than 5000 people daily go to the labor bureaus. In the updated budget that is being offered to us at the moment, if we look at the costs of the Fund - Unemployment, Mr. Finance Minister, Dear Mrs. Sacheva, your account is extremely inaccurate because I am convinced that unemployment will be much higher precisely because you are not offering any measures to business or ordinary people. You lied to them with the measure 60-40 that it would help keep employment. And here I certainly declare to you: this measure is initially clenched, this measure will not initially reach those who need it! This measure currently implies what the employers first, on the one hand, cover a difference of 40%, even though you will then make an adjustment in the Law on Measures relating to the assumption of insurance contributions by employers, but this will not help those stopped enterprises. And I ask you: why, ladies and gentlemen, when we were looking at the Law on Measures, when we were looking at this measure under § 6, why did we not note that this compensation should go to the insured persons and it would not reach them? In this regard, we propose an adequate solution because in view of the fact that you are first proposing an increase in the period during which this emergency will continue, a large percentage of the Bulgarian workers who bring into the insurance system, who work and who comply with the laws of the Bulgarian state, are currently on unpaid leave. Have you thought about them? They won't have any income. And in this regard, we are making a sensible proposal, a proposal that ensures in some way and enables these people to survive a minimum basic income. These are all those families that raise children. We didn't think anything of them! I would also mention self-insuring persons, and I would like to tell you that with regard to self-insuring persons, these are not only those free professions, these are those insured persons who fall under the Co-op Act, these are those single traders who have their small craft workshops, their little shops that survive in their families. Well, they don't have any income right now! Dear Minister of Finance, which you are missing, where is the measure for these people? And since the whole of Europe, the whole world is currently in this pandemic taking measures and in some way protecting people, really for people who have no income, we are doing nothing. The only thing we do is: here's your measure 60-40 that doesn't work, and the other thing is: take loans, interest-free loans! How will these people cope in three months, because I am convinced that this economic crisis will last much longer after this state of emergency, how will these people cover these loans after five years, as you call on them? And yesterday, when Minister Sacheva on Nova TV spoke of measures for self-insuring, she admitted herself that such a measure should be considered. So, ladies and gentlemen of GERB and governors, accept our proposal related to self-insuring persons for a minimum wage so that all people can have basic income, and those workers who import and work rankly for Bulgaria and its economy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u153	Bravo!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u154	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. Are there lines? Mrs. Naydenova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u155	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will also regret that Mr. Goranov is currently missing, as I hope that he will pass on what I will share with you to the Cashier's Supervisory Board. A long time ago, at the beginning of this National Assembly's term, when we discussed what we can help regional and municipal hospitals, the option was also discussed to receive an advance of 1/12 of the funds from the previous year on a monthly basis. Unfortunately, the advance principle was not adopted and we could not succeed. Here we are, with the new crisis that has taken place, as if this question can be put again, and with even greater seriousness. Mr. Goranov said there was a negotiation going on. According to my information and information from colleagues, they have already completed under the national framework contract the hospital care facilities to receive 85% of the average monthly limit so that they can work with these losses in quotes, which indirectly receive all, do not stop their activity. I ask the question once again: can this limit set in the next annex, which is to be signed, receive it in advance, i.e. at the beginning of each month they receive this amount, so that they can cover and drive the current costs and, of course, by September will make an assessment, if not monthly, how is the budget for this year of the relevant hospital care facilities going, and all this, I repeat, to be in the framework of budget 2020? Again with all seriousness, I appeal to the National Health Insurance Fund Supervisory Board to be more flexible because it is shameful to close the Belgrade hospital, understand, then things are getting very serious.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u156	Thank you. The line is Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u157	I just want to replicate to say that such flexibility is intended to have the Supervisory Board and in negotiations with the Doctor's Union and the Union of...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u158	Dentists.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u159	Dentists, but it is not said so, to be able to provide for such mechanisms that really help the activity and we at the next point of the National Assembly will make a proposal for a text in which we will give them this right to be flexible precisely for a longer period of time, and different mechanisms to enjoy, not only the mechanism of the so-called advance payment 85%, but also other mechanisms that they have in mind. So we're going to give them this opportunity, hopefully you'll support it at the next point, and they'll agree there as they have been.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u160	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Is there another line? A hole? You won't use it. Mrs. Lecheva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u161	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I do not know whether you are impressed, dear fellow citizens, those who are following today's debate, which concerns how we are going to resolve the economic and social consequences of the state of emergency, I do not know whether you were impressed with the way we debate on a second point, where the budget update is being discussed? What was the debate on the first point, where the salaries of the Bulgarian MPs were discussed, what was the attitude on the debate by the government? At least 10 people have spoken clearly concerned today about human suffering, for people have lost their income and seeing wages freeze, putting them into a donation account at the Ministry of Health, and many of them and donating them, expressing their concern, concern for Bulgarian citizens. But today the care of Bulgarian citizens should be discussed right here and debated precisely by the government in the update of the budget. I want to tell you that Bulgarian citizens do not want donations, they do not want to receive donations. They want to get what they have earned, what they have contributed as insurance contributions, what they have contributed as a contribution to the tax system, they want to see how today the state will repay, will compensate them for the emergency situation that they are in, because of the emergency situation in which they are located, thousands of people left unemployed, thousands left without income. They don't want your donations, your handouts, they want what they've earned, today to see it through the update and hear it as measures. No economic measure in this budget and no representative of the government has come to protect your proposed measures. But tell me how many people will benefit from it, how many small and medium-sized enterprises will benefit from it? How much?! By what means will you assist them, what is the mechanism to participate in receiving the so-called long advertised loans, which you only offer? Tell me, now is the place to debate. You accused us of populism for the fourth time that we submitted the proposal to freeze our salaries, and on a very well-grounded mechanism, and your populist ideas with which you wanted to show your concern for the Bulgarian citizens, donating the difference from the frozen salaries and donations you made, that is your concern for the Bulgarian citizens, but say it now here through the budget, how many Bulgarian citizens will benefit through the budget? Unfortunately, these measures are very late, I'm afraid they are too late for the Bulgarian economy, for business life. And here I think and dare I say it's like going to the dentist the later you go, the bigger the damage. Unfortunately, this is about human tragedies and the Bulgarian economy. The Bulgarian economy with these late measures and with half-and-nothing significant measures will rise soon, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u162	Thank you, dear Mrs. Lecheva. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u163	Are there no speeches from the other parliamentary groups?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u164	No statements have been made.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u165	Mr. Gechev has a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u166	Mr. Gechev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u167	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, it really makes a strange impression that it is 12.30 p.m. and that no one from the ruling colleagues goes out to defend their proposals. My task will be to say very briefly why the proposal of Mrs. Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs from GERB should be withdrawn. Mrs. Stoyanova, Chairman of the Budget Committee, proposes in art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 2: "Standing to a comma and adding the words, she says, I quote, as well as external government debt through loans from international financial institutions, including for financing projects and programmes and in art. 68 is created a new para. 4: The maximum nominal volume of bonds that can be issued in implementation of the medium-term debt issuance programme on the international markets under para. 2, increases from 8 billion. EUR 10 billion the euro, with the Minister of Finance taking the actions provided for in the Treaties and Act under para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') published in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') published in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority'). First, let us say explicitly that this is not about an increase in the maximum debt of the Bulgarian state in 2020 with a ceiling of 10 billion. lv. What our colleagues want to say is to allow the Minister of Finance, respectively, the government to withdraw a new loan on the external markets by Since we explicitly stress that they must also make the commitment that it is not about changing their decision on a ceiling of 10 billion. lv. for 2020, we want to pay particular attention to the relationship between this proposal from art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 2 and the next proposal..................................................................................... 68a, in fact, where, according to the importers, Mrs. Stoyanova and GERB MPs said: The Bulgarian National Bank can provide loans to the state at the expense of purchases of special drawing rights from the International Monetary Fund, provided by the Governing Council under the following conditions. Dear colleagues, the last loan used by the International Monetary Fund is 2004. During the Triple Coalition Bulgaria has come out of the custody of the International Monetary Fund and since then the amount of, 16 years, we do not need such loans. The International Monetary Fund helped all Eastern European countries to serve their external obligations in the 1990s period. We understand what the economic advantages in this proposal would possibly be. First, almost always the International Monetary Fund, it is true, offers loans that are at interest lower than market rates. This is so in most cases because the Fund can draw large loans from the international market and because it is a low risk international organisation, they achieve good interest. Secondly, our colleagues propose that this loan be withdrawn in the form of special drawing rights. This is also good as a loan in the sense that the exchange rate is lower, as five currencies include the dollar, euro, the Chinese yuan, the Japanese yen and the British pound. But this is where the positive ends. Yesterday Mrs. Stoyanova said she would withdraw this offer, but she has not withdrawn it until now. We insisted that it be withdrawn, the Minister of Finance spoke after us and said that he also supports the request for withdrawal of the proposal, and he has strong reasons, and he is honored because returning to the International Monetary Fund means making economic and political commitments. It is a public secret that wherever the International Monetary Fund has entered, it has set very strict economic requirements, some of which have been, I would even say a lot of them, justified, but some of them have put countries that have taken these loans in extremely difficult conditions. Therefore, by putting the political requirements that the Fund always has a formal or informal one, we are putting the country again depending on the International Monetary Fund, which helps only countries in debt crises, countries that are making a historic transition, as I said, from centralized planning, from a command economy to a market economy and countries that are in a dire economic situation in Africa, Latin American and others. There is no way for us to send, so to say, a message to our partners, that Bulgaria, which is supposedly the lowest government debt in gross domestic product, with good indicators on the state of the budget by direct indicators, suddenly goes to the International Monetary Fund along with the backward undeveloped African, Latin American, southeast Asian and other countries. So from this point of view, we insist that we come out here on the stand and say that this issue is over and that Bulgaria does not need and will not withdraw loans from the International Monetary Fund, as this would result in an appreciation of our loans from commercial banks in Bulgaria and beyond because of the fact that after a country goes to the International Monetary Fund, it automatically means that it is not in good condition and has reached a creditor of last resort.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u168	Mr. Gechev, time, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u169	And finally... Because we've united the paragraphs, I'm graduating.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u170	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u171	I mean, here's the thing. It wasn't for a reason that I combined art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 2 and the new Article. 68a, which is proposed as one term is used for the use of debts by international financial institutions. The proposal must be withdrawn in both places because, yes, it is true that not only is the International Monetary Fund an international financial institution, but what has been mentioned here yesterday in the Commission's debates, however, the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development do not finance external debts. External debts finance by the rules on which he works and by design the International Monetary Fund. The World Bank also does not finance external debts. It finances concrete investment projects with the participation of the state and it only finances state participation in the World Bank, and the private wing of the World Bank is the International Financial Corporation, which is a different legal entity, it finances private projects. And the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development are international financial institutions, but they will not finance us public debt. Finally, the Ministry of Finance, of course, and the government must be very careful when deciding whether this colossal debt they have decided, and we do not approve, of 10 billion. lv. for 2020 whether it will be from Bulgarian banks, under Bulgarian banks I understand registered in Bulgaria, even if they are with foreign shareholders, whether they will draw from outside banks, what will be the economic advantages and political effects on Bulgaria, in order not to do so, as once the government issued debt two years ago, I think it eliminated the Bulgarian banks and concluded deals only with external banks, exporting the interest they paid, this is also the profit for the banks outside Bulgaria. We have not seen any motives in this group's proposals why international financial institutions are offered, what are preliminary estimates, what are the economic and other effects. This debt of 10 billion. lv. When will it be withdrawn, what are the maturitys of this debt for a year, for five years, for a hundred years, what are the expected partners through which it will be realized, how will this debt be repaid? Finally, not only to withdraw this proposal, but ultimately there is no way to remove the undoubted impression that we are really signing an empty check. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u172	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. I allow a little more time because a few paragraphs are united. Let me explain this to my colleagues. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mrs. Ninova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u173	Dear Bulgarian citizens, as you know today at the second reading, we are voting definitively on the update of the budget proposed by the government. In the past few days, discussions became clear that the accents were: increasing the debt limit to 10 billion; measure 60/40 to help the business; 500 million through the Development Bank also to help the Bulgarian companies; and the 200 million for interest-free loans for citizens who want to take one. We do not approve of this approach in the update of the budget for one main reason. This update does not only provide for increased debt, but at all the policy underlying it does not provide for aid, does not provide for a way in which money can reach the person in the most need at the moment. After reviewing all European practices, how other European governments act in this situation, after dozens of meetings with unemployed people, with cultural actors, artists, musicians, that is, these are part of self-insuring, farmers, small and medium-sized businesses, parents left out of work at home to look at their children, we identified four alternative problems and four alternative groups of proposals we submitted to parliament: The first group is people who are on unpaid leave and have no income during the state of emergency. This group includes: self-insuring activists of science, culture, architects, accountants and so on, lawyers who also have no job have no income due to the restrictions imposed by the government. For them we propose the government to provide a minimum wage and insurance to it, which means BGN 725. for a person or a total of 912 million. lv. The second group of affected people and the problem that remains unaccounted for by the budget update are farmers who have already spoken about colleagues before me. We're offering 30 million. lv. direct subsidy from the budget to them, but the target... for growing fruits, vegetables, meat and milk. Dear Members of Parliament, you must have met with such people in the last few days? It is hard to claim that they are currently deprived of opportunity because of the government's policy to sow this year's harvest. This is an extremely important moment because through them, their work will ensure the livelihood of Bulgarian citizens for this year. Although this is a problem "one of many," we propose from him to bring out the big topic of Bulgarian politics regarding the Bulgarian birth production, which we have been defending for years. I hope the crisis will make you reconsider your previous attitude to our proposals! We fully understand that in this global world, economies are connected, that every country cannot shut down and produce everything. This is not going to happen, but a sensible policy with the definition of sectors in those places where Bulgaria has the potential to develop national, Bulgarian, native production is necessary not only for the government and parliament it is necessary as a national agreement that in several sectors the Bulgarian people with their efforts, with the resources of the state can provide it. Such a sector is agriculture because we have wonderful land, there are people who can process it, can produce good results. You all know what percentage of our food is imported.. only needs a little help from the government in order for farmers to work so that they can provide a higher percentage of food for the Bulgarian people. The third group, which we propose and identified in talks with them as problematic and very affected and for which there are no adequate measures in the budget update, is the small and medium-sized business and rather the establishments that were first obliged to close and in the work of which about 500 thousand people are involved. It's our concern for them. We offer what they want, not money from the state, but a few reliefs, so that they can survive and after the crisis to work again, but not to go bankrupt: to be exempt from the garbage tax, because they do not work and do not produce such; from a sidewalk right, because they do not work and use this service, but money is paid for a service; to be exempt from VAT on foods that they have had which have been spoiled because of the ban on working and it is absolutely unfair on something that you didn't realize to pay VAT; and government and municipalities to give them food preparation orders and packages to deliver to adults, to lonely people, to powerless people. This will help them to some extent to save their business, but also to keep jobs. Since we fully understand that the suspension of these fees is local, and garbage tax, and sidewalk law will damage the municipalities, will reduce their budgets, the fourth measure we offer is aid to municipalities, because they are also on the front line in this crisis. We propose 400 million of the budget, which represents a 10% increase in the municipalities' current subsidy, so that they can compensate for the loss of these local taxes and fees, as well as for additional funding for local policies that they undertake to help the population in their municipalities. In total, the costs we offer are about a billion and a half. And I would very much like the Minister of Finance Goranov to be here to say with what motives this is not accepted? To say: populist are traditional! To say: you are wrong, these people do not suffer right now, there is no need to help them! To say there's no money, there's no... Something to explain: why, in our view, these very reasonable and objective four proposals are not accepted and rejected yesterday in the Commission, are you likely to reject them today in this House? Of course, we are reasonable people looking for a source of these funds. Yesterday we suggested that policy be revised, that the priorities of the state be rearranged at this critical time and that the cost of modernization of the army be frozen. Not to stop or erase these projects, not to give up on military care, their families, on the development of the armed forces............................................................................................ It is simply that these costs should be frozen and postponed for the next one, after two years, as experts say, because we currently have far more pressing needs in healthcare, in the social sphere, in the economy. Yesterday very strongly reacted Minister Karakachanov, I would even rudely say, which is absolutely incomprehensible because less than a month ago at a press conference he... [[Reply by MP Veselin Mareshki.]] I'm talking about two paragraphs, and I'm entitled to 10 minutes...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u174	Mrs. Ninova, just for a moment. Mr. Mareshki, since we're looking at several paragraphs at once, we're giving a little more time! Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u175	Mr. Karakachanov reacted very sharply, incomprehensible why, because just a few weeks ago he, the Minister of Finance and Mr. Donchev was at this press conference, said that the projects for the rearming of the army are being frozen. Something must have changed that position of the government or coalition partners, you two work it out there, because you've been sharing something for four years, you've been giving it away. Look, specify yourself! The Minister of Finance cannot say: I freeze the projects, Karakachanov stands beside him and says: yes! And yesterday to jump on this idea and reject it completely, to insult the Bulgarian Socialist Party and the people who support it! At this point, of course, many people are affected, many people expect help, but it is extremely important, colleagues, to set priorities, place them in time and see how the state can help. That is why we, once again, say after a serious review of European practice, after dozens of meetings with many people offer alternative measures to those of the government that will help nearly a million and even more Bulgarians; we offer justified and justified financial means from where to come; we offer an assessment of the effect to see how this will stabilize things and how it will help all these people to overcome the crisis more easily. We are waiting for an answer as to why you do not support these measures. Give arguments.. Let be a matter of substance. From this morning on the update of the budget, the ruling majority is silent. For hours we've been talking, there's not a single answer, there's not a single statement. You don't have any arguments, do you? We await you here on the stand with an opinion on our measures and the reasons why you reject them. I would like to conclude by saying that we are not simply not in favour of the policy that you are proposing during the budget update, we are proposing an alternative plan. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u176	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u177	Madam President, Mrs. Ninova! I am glad that you are offended by the statement of the Minister of Defence Mr. Karakachanov, because he is right.. cannot, when something is happening in the state, first look at the army, the budget for the army and at all the modernization of the Bulgarian army. After all, we also rely on this army, if the situation in the country becomes more critical and worse, to also get involved in helping people, to help the measures that are being implemented and so on. Naturally, as always, your speeches are such that you make suggestions. You have made a suggestion from the TV screens that almost the state this year has given 2 billion. BGN, which we're going to spend on re-arming, which is a complete lie. It's a complete lie! You said it! It's a complete lie because you manipulate and insinuate. Mr. Mihov has previously answered you because you say that we are not going into debate about the measures you are proposing. Here we go. Why are you denying that no one is going into a debate with you again? You are the best, you offer the best measures and so on it is clear! Mr. Mihov told you before: these are projects for the next 10 years. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Why do they have to be frozen right now? They can be concluded and can be implemented in the coming years. Even the funds for this year may be renegotiated and there will be no funds for this year, but you suggest that we block the modernization of the Bulgarian army for the next 12 years. You offer the funds that the state will give for the production of warships, for the production of armored machines, one part of which will go to Bulgarian companies, and for the military ships is entirely in Bulgarian companies. At times when there is a crisis and when in the coming years the state has to come out of this crisis, you propose not to reveal new jobs, but to shut down jobs, that Bulgaria will not be able to develop another business?! This is a way for the state to finance the development of another business. This is job creation. These are tax payments, including then export of production. That's what you're offering, not for now, because you lied about the two billion this year. You lied! You manipulated people, that's the truth!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u178	Mr. Angelov, the time has passed.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u179	My time hasn't passed because Mrs. Ninova spoke for 11 minutes at two paragraphs. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] My line is also two or paragraphs. I don't know why Mrs. Ninova, when she talks...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u180	Mr. Angelov, please get to the point. I'm just paying attention!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u181	...can always delay time, and if it is taken away from her time, her opposition has been violated with the rights. In the end, each Member of the National Assembly must comply with the time required by the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u182	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Second line? Mr. Gurnevsky, will you give Mrs. Belova the third line?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u183	Can't we split it? [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u184	Mr. Mareshki, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u185	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Minister! Dear Mrs. Ninova, your party has been ruling several times and I have listened with great interest to understand how you reacted, your experience and so on, and what suggestions you will be making at the moment to solve the problems of the heights of experience you have. I listened, I listened, but what did I hear? The mayors, the municipalities, to reduce the fees of the Trotoar rights or something like that. The question immediately arises: how many of the mayors of BSP have done this thing so far? In order not to say: but he stared a lot at the mayors of BSP, how many of the mayors in Bulgaria did this thing? And I will immediately answer: only one mayor did it, his name is Diane Doinov and he is the mayor of Sopot. And you know why there's only one?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u186	Because it's on the will.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u187	Because Volya Party only has one mayor. If we had ten municipalities, ten municipalities would have done this thing. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] But you have mayors and you can do it, so I don't see why you have to go out and give it to us as an offer when you have the opportunity to do this thing. But we also learned from our mayor that these fees in municipal budgets are so minimal and insignificant that it is virtually no problem to do so, even now to say that it will be the big deal if we accept it. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u188	Please, no lines from the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u189	Secondly, what you are saying, however, already shows that your economic experts, because I do not believe that you have invented this thing yourself, for products and the like, which have not been spent and failed to pay VAT. Look, nothing unsold VAT is due. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] No, they don't. Third, however, this is perhaps something that made the most impression on me, there are two moments here. One is that you came to the level of the will and realized that...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u190	The weather, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u191	Yeah, and I'll start the second paragraph now, two more minutes. [[Announcement from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] This is very important, I'll be very brief.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u192	Okay, okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u193	Do you understand that really the MPs should receive a minimum wage and support our proposal, or if not, then what you are proposing is absolutely cynical, because your proposal at the first point was right for the free professions, see how you appreciate architects, lawyers, artists and all other free professions, from what I have heard from you about them a minimum wage, because they have no income at the moment. And for you, three thousand and how much leva salary. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u194	Time's up, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u195	No, it's not okay to listen. So, for the lawyers, architects, free occupations, a minimum wage from Cornelia Ninova, a proposal from BSP for Bulgaria and Bulgarian MPs to freeze them at three or four thousand levs! That's cynicism, that's hypocrisy. I won't read to you what hypocrisy is.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u196	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u197	That's ugly populism on your part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u198	Thank you. Mr. Gurnevsky, Mrs. Belova will make a statement, so you can make the third line. [[Replications between MPs from BSP for Bulgaria and MP Veselin Mareshki.]] Colleagues, please don't argue in this room!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u199	Thank you, Madam President. You're very kind to everyone today. [[Radio.]] You've given enough time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u200	I'll give you one, too, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u201	My line is two paragraphs, i.e. two statements by Mr. Gechev and Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u202	Now to Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u203	Mr. Gechev said from this tribune just now: the Minister of Finance should be very careful in this severe crisis, which is not only in Bulgaria but in the whole world. And I call on you, Mr. Goranov, to be extremely careful that you and your team do not get to the period 1996 - 1997, during the government of Vitenov - Gechev, when in Bulgaria the Bulgarians received the lowest pensions and salaries in all their history - three to five dollars. Be very careful! Be very careful when Mrs. Ninova's incompetent populism flows from this tribune. Be very careful at all when Mrs. Nino and Mr. Gechev speak from this tribune. And whatever they say, do exactly the opposite, so that Bulgaria does not reach another catastrophe, as it always happens when BSP rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u204	Thank you, Mr. Gurnevsky. Mrs. Ninova, come on in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u205	It's a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u206	Let's get this done, and I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u207	Mr. Goranov, I am sorry that your fellow parties put you in this situation, and your coalition partners, and they have brought you such personal serious insults as: incompetent, populism, and yesterday Karakachanov and incompetent politicians. Because, honourable rulers, this applies mostly to Mr. Goranov. I'll tell you why. And I regret that you put it here, in the stands, in front of the entire Bulgarian people. 16 March 2020: Goranov postponed billion projects for the modernization of the army because of COVID-19. And you say: the costs that the state budget has to make in relation to measures to overcome the infection with a coronavirus will also require a delay in the projects for the modernization of the army, however unpleasant it may be, said Mr. Goranov in the presence of Mr. Karakachanov. And then yesterday Karakachanov comes out and says: failed politicians are the first to postpone the army's projects. And today, my colleague says incompetent populists want to postpone projects for the army. Well, dear Bulgarian citizens, make an account of what consensus, what understanding and what unified policy it is about inside GERB, between the MPs and their ministers, and in the coalition formula "United Patriarchs" and GERB, but this is their business. Ours is to provide you with conditions to experience the crisis more easily and then recover more quickly and offer where the money will come from. Well, now that we agree with Goranov, yes, precedent is certain, but he takes all the insults you are taking today from the stands. As for the mayors, honourable governors, our mayors do not at all wait for the National Assembly to decide what to do with local policy. A long time ago, two weeks ago, they simplified sidewalk law, postponed garbage tax, simplified rent on municipal premises of small and medium-sized shops, businesses and so on. They've gone far beyond what we're offering you. First of all, they set an example. Then we greeted them, and I allow myself to greet them again today. The third line, it's for Mr. Mareshki. He paid attention several times to his engineering education, there must be a reason, because in finance and the economy on scrapped foods is due VAT. It's not true it's not due! And we say it not only us and not just because it is so by law, but because, as I made the agreement at the beginning, all these measures offer after many meetings with these people, after problems suffered by them and we have shaped our proposals on their behalf. We have the self-esteem to say that today we are speaking not just on a party line, but on behalf of the people we met, we have determined what is weighing on them, we have also determined the ways in which the National Assembly can help them. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u208	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Mrs. Belova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u209	I had a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u210	Sorry, there was a personal explanation from Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u211	Thank you, Madam President. Infinite thanks to the revolutionary poet Mr. Gurnevski of Plovdiv, who always raises the ball high. First, be very careful, Mr. Goranov, as once a foul has been made with an attempt for the Eurozone to comment on the fixed rate and the Monetary Council. Second time, you were paying attention yesterday and correctly wanted to withdraw the proposal here to deal again with the International Monetary Fund and to credit the Central Bank. Has the Bulgarian government been in so much trouble to get there?! And you're right, you have to be very careful. Finally, we must be very careful and the Minister of Finance is careful. The Minister of Finance and the entire GERB group were very careful and chose the financial team of the government Videnov because we proposed the Monetary Council, which still holds Bulgaria. And how does he pay attention? Very carefully proposed a highly qualified expert, recognized by the World Bank and the Deputy Minister of Finance of Mr. Videnov Dimitar Radev is a governor. He was very careful, Mr. Gurnevski, and proposed the Minister of Finance of our government Videnov as head of BNB Supervision. Thank you for paying attention, Mr. Goranov. Have a good day, Mr. Gurnevsky, and ask more often! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u212	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Mrs. Belova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u213	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! My speech is dictated by the speeches made by colleagues earlier in the sector................................................................................................... I'll try to quote a few facts. Since the beginning of the year, Bulgarian farmers have received 680 million. lv. Three hundred million leva on 13 April will be brought on the so-called green payments. A remnant of the SPP is about 50 million, which will be transferred in May. Forty million organic farming. On average, 20 million a week. lv. under the Rural Development Programme. All these funds have been paid to the Bulgarian farmers. And from this tribune in these facts to comment that the state has given up on farmers is at least not correct. There were statements that Bulgarian livestock farmers called colleagues with questions: why was the scheme for support of slaughterhouses from last week, which announced the Ministry of Agriculture and Food not to them, but to intermediaries? Dear colleagues, everyone in this Chamber clearly understands that this scheme is for the support of Bulgarian livestock farmers. And if we were not looking for the opposition element, but we are talking as experts and politicians concerned about Bulgarian livestock farmers, we would explain to them that this support for slaughterhouses is to buy only Bulgarian lamb at a minimum price of 5 BGN. without VAT. I think this was announced by the Ministry. With this measure we support the Bulgarian livestock farmer because if these intermediaries are not financed, there will be no one to buy the lambs of these livestock farmers. I think everyone in this room understands that. I believe that at the moment in this crisis it is not the time to set up some hardworking people who make our livelihood and who we count on to feed us in this crisis, but clearly and precisely explain to them the opportunities they can take advantage of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u214	Thank you, dear Mrs. Belova. - What's the line? Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u215	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Belova, you challenged me with a line because when you talk about 680 million. BGN, 20 million and so on, we mean that these are European funds for 2019? And delayed because in December, the funds to be obtained for 2019 are a small part of the payments that last until June. We are talking about 2020 when we are in a crisis situation. The European Commission has announced measures other than European support, direct payments because it appreciates the long-term crisis and the problems that farmers will have in the future. These measures are: advance direct payments to amount to 85%, for 2020 we are talking; extension of the period of adoption of documents; lifting of State aid by 100 thousand. EUR for farmers and 800 thousand EUR for manufacturers and distributors; reduction of checks... Here I would like to point out that there are still checks for 2019, for 2018 and unpaid funds, because in 2020, we are checking what the tied support for 2019. Relieving the conditions for loans and a guarantee of 200 thousand. EUR as low interest rates and improved payment schedules. If you can explain how direct payments for 2019 so much help farmers that they currently have serious problems, there are also many branch organisations that offer their proposals on how to work in these conditions, especially in these two months, I would be grateful to you, but hardly European funds are something that can help farmers in this situation in a crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u216	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. Mr. Georgiev, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u217	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, dear Mrs. Belova! This is not a political nagging or attempt to set one group of farmers against another. I quote to you what the livestockmen have turned to me. They believe that at this point they are not helped, and I am telling you this from this tribune. I'm not making this up. That's what I told you about people who currently have apples. They went into the big chain and told them they couldn't, they couldn't take their apples. They were told that they might be paid in two months, only Poles and other importers will be paid for this production immediately. I speak from this tribune the opinion of small farmers. One more thing, the same people are asking me why in Agroecology.. 10, we pay more than 17 million for the so-called wintering of the geese. Here, answer this question as well. That's why I'm saying it's necessary to reformat. This moment with the coronavirus is a good time for the Ministry and the state to reform, to see where the money really should go to small farmers, what is actually the new common agricultural policy. Here through the national strategic plan we can safely bet these things. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u218	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev! Mrs. Belova, come on in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u219	Dear Professor Bachvarova! Yes, we all know that much of the subsidies are European funds. The State aid paid is 300 million. lv. For the so-called measure, according to Mr. Georgiev's reply, the state has foreseen 3.5 million. lv. I say again to help the slaughterhouses to buy Bulgarian lamb at a minimum price of 5 BGN. per kilogram of live weight. Yes, you are right, and to Mr. Georgiev that we should work to support and improve the conditions in Bulgarian agriculture. I am convinced and see that every day and every day at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, along with all industry organizations, communications are being made to seek the right form most effectively to assist our sector and I am convinced that we will do everything possible for this. But, again, let us say that Bulgarian agriculture does not feel the support of the state, we see that it does not.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u220	Thank you, Mrs. Belova. Mr. Siddy, come in for a statement. Then I will give the floor to Mr. Chenchev and then to Mrs. Stoyanova because we have to alternate the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u221	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, the reason for my speech was a few speeches ago. From this tribune, another many lies were uttered, including the address to Mr. Goranov, who is not here in the Chamber at the moment. I think we should make a difference between delaying and stopping because Mr. Goranov was talking about delaying, Mrs. Nino was talking about stopping these projects. These are two very different things. Mrs. Ninova, who I do not see in this Chamber, said that we are not going into debate, we are not talking, we are not saying what we think about the measures offered by the Left. I think that we showed just last week exactly how we can propose something.. We proposed the deadline for the emergency situation to be until April 30th, after which Mrs. Ninova came out on this platform and said: no, we do not support the proposal of IMRO, we offer ours, which was what? April 30th! Then he says that we do not enter into debates and we do not explain how and what we think about BSP measures. There is no way we can enter into a debate and say what we think about BSP measures, because we have no guarantees from the President that if we support BSP's measures, he will not return them as he did with the Emergency Act. Thus, when you have not yet agreed with each other what you want, including you have not agreed with the President, you are proposing something that the Bulgarian citizens certainly do not like and that your President does not like. [[blowing reaction from the opposition]] You're back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u222	Please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u223	Then, once you agree and have written guarantees from the President that he will not return your proposals, then, of course, we can sit down and debate whether there is anything to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u224	Thank you, dear Mr. Siddy! - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Chenchev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u225	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We have already heard a second session of parliament from this tribune of reproaches: what the opposition said, how the opposition thinks, how the opposition should think. We also hear some crazy and, by the way, very ugly comparisons of who made what donations, which I believe you'll all agree doesn't really sound good. It's not about whether or not we're going to make a donation, because I'm sure every single one of us did. We shouldn't measure them, but what matters is what we do for people. Since we are all talking about people, I have to tell you that in what is proposed, there is not a single measure in terms of free-of-charge occupations. Of course, that's an alarm. Performing arts not only in the state of emergency, I am sure and not only after it, God forbid it ends, but even before it does, we have to say a few words about culture, we have to say that people there feel like orphans and that is the absolute truth. I guess each of you is communicating and knows that there's even a bomb in place right now that's ticking there, and now I'm gonna tell you when it's gonna go off. Dear colleagues, we need people to really feel what we are offering them, not individual groups of them. It seems to me that the government cares more about individual population groups than the entire population, and this is shown by the measures you are proposing. With regard to culture, performing arts, actors, of course, we must say that we need a general change in the methodology for forming the budget of performing arts. I am glad that here is the Minister of Finance, because he certainly wants the Bulgarian culture to move forward. Surely it is a very well-meaning thing, something I have no doubt about, the Bulgarian culture, but it should turn a little more serious. I remind you that the changed methodology is already part of the Law on the Protection and Development of Culture, and I remind you that according to the new methodology Minister Banov prohibited the theatres from organizing their performances, notice, in halls larger than 1000 seats, and have two or more performances per day to increase the number of tickets sold, which are financed, subsidized by the budget. This is going to be something very important after the state of emergency. Of course, this is also interfering with the improvement of the situation. The initiative of the leaders of the logs is to cover the delays in the parameters of delegated budgets, which will make the institutes subject to administrative sanctions. That's why I said it was a time bomb that was about to go off. It is clear that after a state of emergency that has caused damage not only to the Bulgarian economy, there will be difficulty. It is also clear that it is the government that should plan its measures, not only during the emergency situation, that there should be an action plan after that. We hope that we will hear this plan here from the platform, and I hope, of course, for more concern from the government of Bulgarian culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u226	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev! - What's the line? I can't see. Mrs. Stoyanova, the stands are yours.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u227	Thank you, Madam President, I won't be using much time. We've made a lot of things clear at first reading, and a lot of things have become clear here. First, I will stop with two words on BSP's proposal. They offer an additional transfer to this billion and a half, which was envisaged by importers, with an additional 915 million. to state social security, transfer to the municipalities of 420 million with a source, we understand military ships and equipment and some 13 million for agriculture. That's $1 billion. Three hundred and fifty-five million. BGN, which should increase the deficit offered by the importer of 3.5 billion. at almost 5 billion, although in your proposal this is not.... I am simply reporting it for correctness. The measures that have been presented from this platform, for which this money is financed, are measures aimed at the same target groups, which are targeted by the government and the majority, only in a different way because we also have a different vision of how the state funds should be handled and managed. First of all, we all need to be aware that before we set aside, to support, to distribute anything, we need to ensure the normal functioning of the state, its key systems, the state administration, the health system, the social system, the security system, the system of education that operates under exceptional conditions, with extraordinary costs. And this, as you can see, we do it without looking for additional transfers to them. What we have provided for as a 1.5 billion transfer to state social security, respectively for the Unemployment Fund, is to secure two types of payments. The ones are for all people who are made redundant and on the Stock Exchange and will receive for the next four, six, eight, twelve months, depending on their work experience, 60% of their wage, as well as to provide the 60/40 Programme to support that business that has not completely stopped working, works and can afford to participate in this programme. At yesterday's meeting of the Legal Commission, a proposal was supported to improve the Programme and, in addition to 60% of the employer's salary, through state social security and fund, the Programme's unemployment will be paid and the employer's insurance will be paid so that the employer can actually remain to pay 40% of these contributions. I understand that employers have already escalated in their requests. By the way, what we accepted yesterday was on a proposal from the employers' organizations themselves, on their accounts, which they made on TV that, in fact, paying the insurance, the scheme is not 60/40, but is some other, other ratio. Now I understand that they have escalated these demands and you have presented it from this tribune. Of course, you immediately recognize the scheme to be 60/0, i.e. the worker not to receive 40%, but 60% of his salary, which is equivalent to going to the Exchange for 60% of his remuneration. Further, I would like to continue with what measures are laid down in the Law. This is a measure to secure programmes through the instrument, the only financial instrument of the state "Bulgarian Development Bank." The state capitalizes with 700 million Bulgarian Development Bank, and we will now adopt another 700 million State guarantee for the Bulgarian Development Bank, which would enable it to withdraw or attract funds much more than this state guarantee, so there will be sufficient funds there at this stage to provide two programmes that can be extended and modified and which can be complemented by other programmes. That is, we, here today, provide this financial opportunity, and what they will be and how they will develop in time, will show the situation and opportunities and the development of the economy itself. One programme is aimed at those people who are self-employed persons who have not legally paid contributions to the Fund "Unemployment" and who do not have the right to receive benefits from this Fund upon termination of their activities. In this round we must add the persons who are on unpaid leave. For one reason or another, this unpaid leave, as you know, is obtained by mutual agreement between the person and his employer. These people at this stage this is the scope, but it can be changed, they will have the opportunity for three months to receive 1500 BGN. a loan that will be interest-free, the interest paid by the State, and will have a repayment term of five years and a repayment term of 10 years. I think this is a wonderful scheme by which these individuals, especially self-employed people, can assist their activities. From these funds that will be provided, I said again, the only instrument of the state to lend, namely the Bulgarian Development Bank, is being developed and a programme aimed at small business will be launched at any moment, which will also be entitled to receive interest-free credit with a serious grace period of three to five years to maintain and restore its activity. I continue to argue that, apart from these funds under the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy within the framework of the shifting of European funds, many other programmes are also being worked on, which will help the unprotected parts of Bulgarian citizens. There has been talk of this tribune of measures in terms of health care. They're in two directions. One direction is for additional, direct stimulation of first-line workers. And the second direction is this decision, which has almost already been made, finalized for Annex to the Treaty between the National Health Insurance Fund, the Bulgarian Medical Association and the Bulgarian Dental Union.................................. for the payment of the hospitals in advance..................................in order to preserve their capacity and continue their work. In terms of agriculture. I'm not going to stop because these are all the directions in which you make suggestions, so I'm only talking about them. Mrs. Belova has very clearly and categorically told you how much money we are talking about in just three months from the beginning of the year. lv. You're offering $30 million. But besides those direct payments that they currently receive cash and which will secure their work, we offer in point. 2 We will vote on it, yesterday the Legal Commission adopted it, namely the unemployed people who are on the Exchange and receive unemployment benefits, to be able, at the same time, to work on a work contract in agriculture, because now this campaign is starting. As for business, the small business that you are talking about, that municipalities should think about, releasing it from rents, sidewalk law and so on, the mechanism is in the hands of municipalities. But since many of them do not understand that they have these rights, we proposed yesterday and the Legal Commission adopted it, in the other law we will see it as a text that allows it to be clear to all municipal councils, state bodies that have relations with entities affected by the crisis, to reduce or exempt from rents or payments for certain rights, such as to say: sidewalk law, market law and trade and so on. At the same time, I do not agree with the excessive demands of the business, except to be exempt from these charges, which is normal, because they do not operate to pay sidewalk law for example or would like a breath of air if the room they rent does not work because of the prohibition of the emergency to exempt them from a household waste charge and I will explain why. Fee household waste is a serious feather in the municipalities and costs are incurred against it to perform this service. 90% of the business pays a household waste fee on the basis of a contract with the municipality for the amount of waste it discards. There is no obstacle, if this amount of waste has decreased or gone for a certain period of time, to make an annex to these contracts, but the second part of the waste charge that the business pays to maintain the cleanliness of the territories, I believe that this is the solidarity of the business and the costs that municipalities are forced to do in addition to washing, sweeping and disinfecting the public places. So you can't constantly and just ask, everyone should try to be solidarity in this situation. I believe that, with this budget update, we have provided sufficient resources and opportunities to implement these programmes, which I have very briefly presented to you, perhaps missing one of them, and which, once again, will be developed, modified, there will be new programmes once they are identified, and new vulnerable groups. With regard to the debt, Mr. Gechev has called me from this tribune to withdraw my proposal under art. 68a "I have formally withdrawn it to the Commission, I confirm it right here, from this tribune, this is the buffer that the government has asked us to increase the debt limit for 2020 by 7.8 billion. lv. In addition, in the article in question. 68.. not the one I withdraw, he is art. 68a and the previous article. 68, we give an additional 2 billion. EUR, an additional limit for the withdrawal of debt on international markets under the Global Medium-term Programme, which was debated and voted in this Parliament in 2015, so that the Minister of Finance has serious flexibility so that he can quickly come out on international markets if he decides that the time is right and can get a good price for his securities. I do not agree to withdraw my proposal to supplement para. 2 of art. 68 which extends the opportunity to benefit from loans from other financial institutions, namely the European Investment Bank, the Bank of the Council of Europe, with which we are currently in talks and negotiations on debt financing, programme financing of certain sectors. This is an opportunity from which we must not deprive the state and the government as a source of additional funding, except for government securities outside and in the internal market. As for the International Monetary Fund, I propose, since I have withdrawn my proposal, that we do not speculate that, in this addition,.. and other financial institutions, we are referring to the International Monetary Fund and we are trying to spend it there. When it comes time to talk that we also need another source of funding, if others or offering more favourable conditions are exhausted, here in this Parliament we will debate this issue. But now is not the time. That is what the Minister of Finance said, and I support his opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u228	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. The line, Mr. Gechev. Then Mrs. Klisurska, then Mr. Popov and Mr. Tsonev's statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u229	Dear Madam President, Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, Dear Minister Goranov. We have rightly said the "retirement," we will not comment on the explicit reference to the International Monetary Fund. But, Mrs. Stoyanova, still, what's stopping you from editing art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 2 to write: as well as foreign government debt through loans from the international market? I suggest that this be the editing because we can't believe in arrangements here. The International Monetary Fund is also the International Financial Institutions. It is one of the two largest institutions - the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. Even if you withdraw it, in fact from the legal point of view of staying international financial institutions, what is the need?! No one intended to restrict the Bulgarian government, whatever it was, to go on the international market. It is his right, and it must do analyses both on the international and on the internal market in order to make a decision. But we have concerns with the International Monetary Fund because of the economic and political consequences of going back to 2004, which is wrong. Secondly, you have correctly made an adjustment.. We welcome, now the consumer credit is presented in a form that is acceptable and it will work. But I want you to answer me this question. We are proposing measures that I would like to emphasise.. are European, we have taken them from European countries. BSP does not offer anything new that is not available in the European Union. Once again, we tell you: it will not increase the budget deficit, as we say that the measure, even if the 60/40 adjustment becomes real 60/40 with social security, will not work. We'll be back together in a few weeks and you'll see it won't work. These funds will remain free and they can be used according to a measure that the majority of countries considered to work. That an employers' organization has supported this measure, I want you to keep in mind that this is for political and other reasons, as the boss of one of these organizations will not mention it, if he loves, owes 54 million to the Bulgarian budget...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u230	The weather, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u231	...which we can use for measures for the crisis. If he likes to pay for it, he shouldn't mind us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u232	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Second line, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u233	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mrs. Stoyanova, Mr. Minister! I am beginning with what you said in your presentation to take such measures to ensure the proper functioning of the state. Ms. Stoyanova, these measures that you are proposing prevent the Bulgarian state from returning to a normal way of life, because you know that the economic measures we are betting now will ultimately have their impact not in a month, but for a much longer period of time. When you talk about the transfer that is being made to the Fund of State Social Security and rather the Fund of Unemployment, under the measure 60/40, do not mislead the Bulgarian citizens about what BSP recognizes. Our parliamentary group, and last time we saw the Law on Measures, said strongly "This measure must go directly to the insured persons, and we are categorical. When you say that you have adopted the proposal of the DPS in terms of securing the insurance under this measure 60:40, Mrs. Stoyanova, you are an economist: where are your estimates, where is your budget update adjustment when you accept this proposal? Well, these contributions further show that the transfer to the Unemployment Fund will not be enough! You're economists, aren't you? Be consistent! But I guess you didn't. I am glad that here is also the Minister of Finance, who will answer me: which compensatory mechanism, what do you intend to do? I'm not gonna hurt those people with free jobs, I'm gonna hurt the craftsmen. I'll read to you all those at stake in art. 4, para. 1, t. 5 of the Social Security Code! [[Reply from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u234	Time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u235	Excuse me, Mrs. Stoyanova, but those credit-related measures you're offering are not gonna fix that little workshop, that hat shop, woodwork shop, or that hairdresser's workshop that was closed on the orders of the Minister of Finance!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u236	There's no such order!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u237	Health care.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u238	These people, when they withdraw credit, at some point they have to return it, and they have no way of getting it out, because the economy after that. [[the President signals that time has run out]] She won't be able to restore them to work, and most of them are without any income! So we have to think about all of them here and now...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u239	The weather, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u240	...and provide them with one minimal aid that we offer!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u241	Thank you. Third line, Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u242	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, in your so-called measure 60:40, has already become known, giving these 60%, figuratively speaking, what my colleague Tsonev proposed, which is good for paying the employee's contributions, what will you stimulate in practice? The worker to pass on a 4-hour working day because there is no protection in your proposals. One employer -- 40% -- not 100 units, and 50 units -- from an 8-hour working day will respectively go to 4-hours with a 50% reduction in the employee's wage. You said it would stimulate the exit of the Exchange. It will not stimulate the exit of the Exchange, when the money is given directly to the insured person, because, Mrs. Stoyanova, if the contract of employment is terminated by mutual agreement, the worker of the Exchange will receive the minimum wage per day, not those 60%, who will receive them if he is working. He won't want to sign the treaty by mutual agreement because it's not in his favor and there will be protection! The other, there will be protection for the worker if the employer wants to terminate the employee's contract, he owes him one month's wage for non-compliance with the notice period. He must pay this period of notice a monthly employee's gross wage. Where's this employer gonna get them when he closes? Moreover, in the current law, I think it was in art. 267 of the Labour Code, it is clearly written that in the company's stay it is not the worker's fault that the full wage is due to him, not only the wage, but the gross wage! In the current norm in the Labour Code we are in this very hypothesis. So do not suggest that by this measure, if the money were given directly to the worker, it would stimulate the exit of the Exchange. Moreover, when it comes to large cuts, more than 20, 30 people are required to agree with the union. It's a procedure that lasts more than a month! Companies with the many workers will not be able to cut their workers so easily, because they benefit from the protection of the Labour Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u243	The weather, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u244	I'm done. With what you propose to pay the employer directly, you will stimulate exactly this.. you will overcome this protection of the worker and send him to a 4-hour working day or the Exchange. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u245	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Mrs. Stoyanova, come on in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u246	I don't know exactly what I'm supposed to answer all those lines I got.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u247	Well, don't answer it!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u248	Yeah, as they say, I don't see much point, but I still don't understand BSP's position. At one point, the workers' advocates, at the other moment, the employers' advocates.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u249	We are the defenders of the entire people. Who are you protecting?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u250	I'm confused, too. I can't figure out who they're protecting or exactly what their position is. But all their proposals I'm not talking about the state budget because they're at the other point that we're going to be looking at in about half an hour, show, ladies and gentlemen, an incompetence. I'll set an example with the VAT only. They propose that all those affected by the emergency situation be given 2,000. lv. It is possible not to import VAT when the goods are scrapped. The value added tax law is clear when a commodity is scrapped without reason, VAT is due to it because the tax credit has previously been used in the purchase of this commodity. In this law, there are clear articles that say that when this marriage is the result of a technological marriage within the framework of technological norms, either by standard or by industry norm, either by the own standards of an undertaking, or when that marriage is due to the expiration of the goods, there is no VAT due.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u251	In this case, it's neither.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u252	What do you mean, it's not? When meat, cheese, eggs are to be scrapped in a restaurant because the restaurant is closed, it comes into the hypothesis of an expired marriage. But if he wants to scrape the soft drinks or the whiskey, there's no way, because their shelf life is much longer and there's no way he can prove it's expired in the context of the state of emergency. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u253	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Mr. Tsonev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u254	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! We of the DPS refrained from making further proposals under the Budget Act for the following several reasons. Yesterday in my speech to the Budget Committee, I said some of them, but today I will try to summarize them. Firstly, I would like to remind my fellow Members that this is not about the third month of the crisis. Exactly 15 working days have passed since the announcement of the state of emergency "20 and a few days with the weekends. Secondly, it is absolutely not clear, there are a lot of unknowns, I will start with the most fundamental of them, how long the crisis will last. The other unknowns are: what will be the reflections on the revenue part of this depends on many other factors that are also unknown values. Even if we try to predict based on serious scientific approaches in economic forecasting, we will still fall into viewing beans because there are too many unknown ones. I can say that almost all of the factors, all of the fundamental factors that work on these extremes, are actually unknown. For this reason, we believe that on the 15th working day of the state of emergency, it is a little voluntarism to start with all the measures that we would apply, or most of them, if we are aware of much more facts. For example, our budget proposes this amendment that the expected revenue default will be around 2.5 billion. I claim Mr. Goranov, you can disprove me if you wish that this does not rest on serious calculations. She can't rest. Suppose we took some amount of time that we predicted. This period of time to ask if it will be the same in Germany? Anybody know? You, Professor Gechev, by reading? 65% of our exports to the European Union is 65%, 66, 67 at times. I ask: if we release the Bulgarian economy, remove the measures in one month or 20 days, will Europe do the same? Can anyone tell me without looking at beans? What if Europe doesn't let go of its economy, this export goes to the movies! So what are you predicting, what are you calculating?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u255	If you'd gone to China, Russia... [[Replications between MPs from GERB and BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u256	I don't remember a place to replicate you, Professor Gechev. I'm saying these things because the long debate here... [[continent lines]] It was a race, a throwing of suggestions. Okay, that's okay. However, a country that is on a currency board, a budget and a government that has been limited in funding for almost three decades now because of the currency board, I am 100% in agreement with what Minister Goranov said last time in both the Budget Committee and the previous discussion here that his main task is to ensure the financing of budget systems. That's the main one, the first one. Of course, there are other tasks from there. Given that there are really no funding options that other countries have but are narrowed down our options; provided that we do not know how long the crisis will last; if we do not know how long the crisis will last in the countries and regions to which our economy, our exports, our imports, even if you will, is also of fundamental importance, then what are we predicting?! Then is it justified to throw ourselves away from the first 15 days of the declared state of emergency and to make all the possible measures that we are talking about? I completely agree that people have been affected since day one. In fact, I agree, and it is absolutely true that there are people affected in principle and without a crisis people who have no income or are on the edge, and I agree with that. However, we are currently not looking at measures to improve the welfare of people at all, we are looking at measures with regard to those specifically affected by the crisis and those sectors that are affected by the crisis. The simplest thing I will tell you: if we assume that all who have been released since 13 March have gone out on the 15th of the labour market or 16th of Monday, well they will receive their salaries for February now, they have received it at the end of March. You understand that it is not yet such that it should be done, but quite calmly can be done on April 20th, but quite calmly and with a much greater dose of facts, with a much greater dose of approximation to the truth? We have never claimed, for example, that we in the DPS since we discussed these measures, that they should not have such scope or that they should not be in certain sectors. We have argued that this should be staged, to be timed and to cover the real facts, the real things that will happen, not the projected ones. Because otherwise, there is a great danger in such an approach that the Left's colleagues offer, and not only, other colleagues have proposed broader measures, there is a great danger that within two months we will find ourselves unable to do anything further if, of course, we do not want to completely destroy the economy and the budget. I didn't hear anyone talking, absolutely nobody heard, I listened carefully to the discussion today, and yesterday, and so on, I didn't hear anyone talking to which part of the economy, which factor of the economy the measures should be directed to. I suggested yesterday that this should be the potential for growth of the Bulgarian economy, it should be preserved. However, the potential for growth involves many other things. Besides the labour market, it involves businesses and so on, let's not do a whole lecture here on this topic. That is, if we want to make the most effective use of the minimum opportunities that we have as a country, even if we take more credit, we really need to focus our efforts, first of all, on the most affected sectors, on the most affected social groups, but also on preserving the potential for growth. Because if, for God's sake, we come back soon, and not so soon on the path of normalization, only the preserved potential for growth or a preserved financial and economic state to push in that direction will quickly bring us back to normalization and income and jobs and stop the decline and minimize the damage of this crisis. Everything else in a small or larger way is a voluntaristic approach. That is why we have chosen to support these measures. We chose to support them with slight adjustments, of course. A little more serious adjustments could be made, but this is a matter of debate. We have chosen something else, and I would like to stress it again, and we have chosen not to make dividends to our constituents, speaking from this tribune of things that we are not convinced of. We chose to show the Bulgarian society that, at a time of such a crisis, all institutions should stand together in solidarity, without divisive individual parties, without being distinguished by the Presidency by the Council of Ministers, yet we should stand firm enough and coherent enough for them to understand that institutions and individual political parties are not raising their selfishness at this time in their cult. I will tell you as a politician with 30 years of internship: if I were not in this Chamber and outside this Chamber, my impression would be that the Bulgarian politicians, the Bulgarian political parties represented in parliament at the beginning of this crisis, in its first 15 - 20 days, have raised in a cult not the protection of people, not the prevention of the crisis, but their political selfishness. That would have been my conclusion by looking at everything we saw. Political selfishness has been led in these 15 days of the debate in this Chamber. If you want to accuse me of being incorrect, that's my impression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u257	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. The line, Mrs. Klisurska, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u258	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u259	Let's finish with the line and the back, and then I'll give you the floor, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u260	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Mr. Tsonev, you said: the measures we must take now must cover those affected. I agree and I can tell you that Bulgarian citizens are on unpaid leave and receive no income at the moment. They don't have any supplies and they care about them, they will actually receive their wages from February, but they care about what will happen to them, with their children today. Because the decisions we will make today will affect tomorrow, immediately the next day, and not led by selfishness or by any feeling to show how active we are and how concerned we are about the opposite, the measures we offer are related precisely to this fear in Bulgarian citizens how we will ensure a minimum guaranteed life resource for all those people who are most vulnerable. Unfortunately, the economic measures we are proposing at the moment do not show this adequacy in our view. I want to tell you something, and I want to disprove you. Why, is Germany inadequate, are Denmark, Romania, Greece, Macedonia inadequate? And I will only mention Macedonia and Romania because you are talking about economic indicators and economic systems. Well, I only respect you in Greece: Everyone working in an enterprise, a company whose work is stopped by a government decision as a precautionary measure against the virus, will receive 800 euros.In Romania: The State is committed to covering 75% of private sector wages and has a ceiling of public service prices and fuels, the payment of credits is postponed; in Macedonia: "Workers in private companies affected by the crisis will receive one minimum wage in April and May. Mr. Tsonev, are these countries inadequate when they took the measures now? Because I believe that we will show adequacy in the National Assembly when we take the measures in due time, and not from here, from the stands, to tell them: yes, we will take measures, but in time. Let's calm them down!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u261	Second line?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u262	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Tsonev, I wrote down: But what are we talking about, in the name of what? If it's about any real measures to reach the most victims, to the most victims, to the people, to the Bulgarian citizens, yes, but what you do is not a conversation, it's the most stable business structure and structure called complicity, and we don't want to be part of this complicity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u263	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Another line? I can't see. Mr. Tsonev, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u264	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wish I could stay in the field of common sense, but, alas, I don't stand a chance. Mrs. Klisurska, you will see what kind of loan Romania will take in a few days or weeks and you will see how the markets will react and what rate it will receive. We'll talk then.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u265	If he takes it at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u266	If he takes it at all. You'll see. To remind them that they can and devolve their leu any way they want. For Macedonia, don't give me an example at all. This is a country where the market economy has not yet been fully implemented and properly, so I have nothing to say to you. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] There's a lot I can tell you, but you just won't understand. [[Applause.]] However, I will answer to Mr. Philip Popov very seriously. You know, Mr. Popov, why do I think it's not right what you said, and that this conversation in the name of national interests is not what you said? And why do I think that the things you offer all the time are political selfishness? Because, Mr. Popov, unlike you, I have twice been involved in government with your party and I know you very well how you behave when you are in opposition and how this has nothing to do with when you are in government. [[Applause from GERB.]] So that the BSP doesn't teach the DPS these things, if that's okay! We have a memory! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u267	We have a memory, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u268	Thank you. Mr. Zarkov has a procedure and then I'll give you your word.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u269	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take this procedure for the way we conduct not only to bring the debate back where it belongs, but to realize the meaning of the words we speak here. A moment ago, the chairman of the Budget Committee defined BSP's proposals as, I quote, "Investing incompetence." And I want you to pay attention to her measuring her fairy tales, for the simple reason that the same chairwoman with her competence and without measuring her actions, the other day put forward proposals that would again create panic, mentioning the International Monetary Fund, which will have consequences, including probably also the debts that we will take forward because these words matter. The same Mrs. Stoyanova a few weeks ago with a proposal blew up even the fragile consensus that we have in our society regarding the policy that we need to follow, including at the European integration moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u270	I take that as an overture to the remark to Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u271	Finally, I say to you, my remark is this: please note the various opponents to express these, but with respect to each proposal of MPs, because what you call incompetence would provide minimal income to the Bulgarians imprisoned in their houses, and your competence would bring them to the streets. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u272	There's no answer. I'll leave Mr. Zarkov's remark without an answer. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u273	Mr. Minister, Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Let's face it. A year and a half ago, even nearly two years ago, four Nobel Prize winners in economics, including Joseph Stiglitz, an economic adviser to two American presidents, said the world is entering into a new, very serious economic crisis, in a very serious one. The coronavirus, which has emerged, in my opinion, has torpedoed this economic crisis, will cause very, very serious damage and will make this crisis extremely severe. So far, the world has known two very severe economic crises. One is 1929 "1933," the other is 2008 "2011." Usually these crises last between three and four years. So, what did I take the floor for? All day I've been listening to the debates in our Parliament by my fellow MPs, my respects to all of you, and I keep thinking of a poem by Hans Zaks when six blind Hindus decided to describe the elephant, what the elephant looks like. One, when he felt the trunk, said: "He looks like a snake to me, the other when he feels the ear: "He looks like a pan, and so on and so forth. Finally, the poem ends with the following: "All were right individually, but everyone in all were wrong. " - So something similar is happening right now here. I listened to what would happen to agriculture, listened to what would happen to the free professions, listened to what would happen to the companies, heard that the formula 40 to 60 was not up to date. It's really not relevant to me, because neither business nor ordinary person will be satisfied. That's 1,500 leva. The interest-free loan that we are giving, sorry for the expression, but in the crisis that is coming, yes, now will pass the pandemic, but we will enter without doubt, the whole world will enter into a very serious economic crisis. It is not for a reason that all developed countries are currently drawing very serious loans. Here I want to support our Finance Minister that he personally wants to borrow a large loan, because without a large loan we will not pass, understand it. Without a big one, I repeat: not small, without a large loan we will not get out of this crisis for several reasons. First, every economy in the world is a consumer economy by shrinking consumption, the economy collapses. Well, how is it that this population that's left out of work and registered on the labour markets of several thousand people right now, how do you imagine this population that's sitting in the houses right now? I approve, by the way, of this measure of so-called isolation, because it is inevitable. Denmark made this mistake seven days first took very hard measures, then five days released the population and are now seven times as sick as we are. Then they put the solids back on. I approve of this measure, but we must consider the state, and the state is us. We, the MPs, are the state. We, the government and the president, this is the state. That's the truth. This country must consider how our population will survive this crisis. Because, believe me, sitting at home all day long, like I'm very serious about quarantine, sitting at home all day long, at some point the money runs out. The most important thing the government must do at this time, and we as MPs, the most important thing is to save the business. Currently the restaurants stay closed for several more months, their people are put on unpaid leave. Not only restaurants, small companies, large companies are currently closed. These companies will lose their markets in a few months. From now on, the disaster is complete: cohesive consumption, people will have no money, and accordingly, if...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u274	This is the second reading of the Bill!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u275	Okay, if you want to interrupt me, pick up a line later. People will not have money, and the crisis has been proven that a global crisis lasts not two months a pandemic, but lasts between two or three or four years. That is why my proposal is specifically because many of you know what I am saying. My proposal is this: no party is so great at the moment that no party alone can cope with the situation. Not one! Therefore, my proposal is this: a large loan is being drawn. Just please, not from the International Monetary Fund, let me not justify why the International Monetary Fund, respectively, each party has its financial experts Because they need to be helped right now. Otherwise, you know what? My father was in business and I'll tell you this: once a firm closes, it's very difficult to recover, it practically ends its life. That's what I wanted to tell you, this is my specific proposal. [[Heckling]] Yes, Mr. Goranov, a very large loan. This is not about a billion or two, as BSP offers a billion and a half measures. It is not enough, colleagues, you need to draw a large loan. See what other countries do. Let's not compare ourselves to the greatest... [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u276	He specifically suggested what the formula would be.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u277	All right, Menda, here you go. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u278	Don't get carried away.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u279	My suggestion was this: everyone has experts. Here, the other day you see the big, powerful countries taking what loans they're taking. They're pulling trillions. Trillions! [[Heckling]] Yeah, you're smiling. The other day, Donald Trump pulls and says, "Yes, two trillion dollars for the American economy." [[Noise and lines.]] You all know that these dollars smell like ink, and soon you'll understand it when inflation starts. Because a long time ago it was time when the dollar was written: the gold of Fort Knox's reserves. Now do you know what the dollar says? Look at it:..in God we trust... in God we believe........................ in God we believe.............................. we Only they have the printery. So in this regard my request is as follows: Minister, even bigger loan draw! [[Noise and lines.]] The decision of each feather, which concerns the Bulgarian economy and every single direction in the economy, is divided into feathers, to decide all together with our financial experts. Every party has them. Otherwise comes the crisis, autumn we go to elections because a party has not managed, comes for example BSP to power, BSP and it goes away after half a year and we enter into a permanent and political crisis already. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u280	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Colleagues, it is true that we are discussing four paragraphs and you have the right to speak on each of them. I'm asking you to still be a little bit beat up, because we're still on the second question. Then we have another question to deal with and a very long and complicated vote. [[Heckling]] We have decided not to suspend work until the results of the vote are announced. Thank you. Line up, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u281	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Minister! I understand Mr. Atanasov that as a coalition partner he had to protect the policy of the government and the proposals that were made by GERB. What I don't understand is why in such a way that this is the only possible option in which it can be acted and nothing else. Because he told us about the elephant, I'd like to tell him a phrase about Mike Tyson, who says he has a plan until he gets a fist in his face. It was the fist in the face in the form of this economic crisis, catalysed by the coronavirus, that ruined this government's plan. There's nothing strange about what's going on here. We're following the natural economic move. Another question is that we do not agree with the proposed measures and we cannot agree for a simple reason that the famous measure 60-40, let's face it, this is not a Bulgarian patent, it was not invented in Bulgaria, on the contrary, has already been applied in Germany during the 2008 crisis. Notice, with this measure, the aim of the German government was to keep the highly qualified personnel. That is, this measure is aimed at a layer of highly qualified. Our idea is to propose measures to cover workers and employees, including low-skilled and without education. We cannot accept this measure as only possible. The other thing we don't agree with, and what we're constantly getting into, is about 1,500 levs that will be returned. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u282	In five years!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u283	Now, in five years, but they will be returned, Mrs. Stoyanova!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u284	Please don't engage in dialogue. Finish your thought.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u285	Yeah, I'm not going in, okay. ...but they will be returned, and in practice, what is given or forgiven is only interest. On the consumer loan the interest rate is 8% or that is 120 BGN. A year, 10 leva a year. a month. I'd give that 10 lv. Mr. Atanasov's, to see him drive with them.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u286	Thank you. A line? Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u287	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Atanasov, you said that you were listening to comments about agriculture, at the same time you said that we should save business, restaurants. Yeah, well, people have to eat three times a day. Restaurants must work and load agricultural produce. In my speech, I said that the world is really going at a new stage, and if this crisis makes many of the countries close their deliveries to Bulgaria, we are going into a food crisis. I told you for nothing about the added value and that we have a positive balance in agriculture is due only to grain exports. This is certainly a fact, but we export a primary product without added value, and I have repeatedly said that this is extremely harmful. In Bulgaria we are a crude addition to both Europe and our neighbours, at the same time we import ready-made products with high added value. I will give you an example of Denmark, because here you quoted that other countries took loans in trillions. Well, one Denmark produces about as much as we do. It produces 9, 10 million grain in territory is three times smaller than Bulgaria, but, notice, it does not export a pound of grain. All grain turns into animals and meat, then brings us this meat with very high added value. That is why I am telling you that now we must make sure that we first preserve the BSP offers this 30 million for farmers, for vegetable production, for the fruit trees, and then think about that reformation of the policy to satisfy Bulgarian production on our markets...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u288	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u289	...in those restaurants you're talking about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u290	Another line? A line or a statement, Mr. Pawnov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u291	Mr. Atanasov, the coronavirus isn't torpedoing, it's catalyzing the crisis that's coming. It was about the end of the year, only this fact came up unexpectedly and this catalization is from here. The question you're asking about business is correct, but is there a business without people? Machines without basic human labor are dead machines, so you have to balance it out not only business, but those people who are now unemployed and without money are in danger of going out on the street after May 13th. It's dangerous. In Italy, supermarkets are already being looted. And something else, in the U.S., they were taking trillions, but they're printing some hollow money. They're taking inflation out, aren't they? So you're saying how big to be this credit?! I didn't hear from you, at least the government knows it's 10 billion. How much are you offering? Because Mr. Gechev, I'm sorry that he came out, but there is one proposal that can get the Nobel Prize for Economics. He suggested that we take 100 billion at this rate and that when the other countries come, we start to release at much greater interest. This is in the frame of the joke, but I still want to hear how much you suggest this credit be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u292	Mr. Atanasov, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u293	Colleagues, taking it out as a joke and I'll take it lightly as a joke, you know the biblical expression. It's not a job, but I think that each of you understood what I meant, not to take the word for it. You know the Bible's expression: He had ears, and he did not listen, and he had eyes, and he did not see, so do not take this first out of the context of the speech. Secondly, I didn't say that only business must be saved. There are socially weak and it is no accident that I said a few thousand people go to the Exchange every day. These people must be helped and I will tell you why, I will repeat myself again because every economy in the world is consumer. When consumption shrinks, the economy dies, meaning there is no turnover of fresh money. And now you have asked me the only question that was really serious about how many billion I propose to withdraw debt? Here he is, the specialist is by my side, he'll say how much. By making the estimates, there's a whole Treasury Department that works for him. [[Noise and lines.]] So... So far, Mr. Goranov, as I understand it, what are you offering? About 10 billion, Mr. Goranov, is that it? So, colleagues, I would like to hear in this regard really the specialist who is our finance minister. It's a shame to ask me, the lawyer, how many billion should be drawn for the state, given that I don't know how many maybe a few thousand, probably 1,000 employees work at the Treasury Ministry? I probably didn't count it, Mr. Goranov will say. But Mr. Goranov is the man who will say: gentlemen, the situation is serious, difficult, so that the economy does not slow down and therefore make the so-called social package, we need so much and so much money. Believe me, they won't be a little bit firm. And by no means will it be less than 10 billion. Absolutely not! Under no circumstances will it be less than 10 billion! That's the way it is. In situations like this, the state does. By the way, it's already been done by Franklin Delano Roosevelt, in 1933 he's dragging America out of global depression by drawing from American banks loans that's it. And just one more time I'm going to say: it's a long subject...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u294	Say it briefly, Mr. Atanasov. Slavcho ATANASOV:...my opinion is: in no case the International Monetary Fund, for thousands of reasons.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u295	Thank you. We continue with speeches. Are there any other statements? I can't see. I'm calling off the debate. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u296	'Concluding provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the provision. The Commission shall support the text on paragraphs 7 and 8. According to § 9, there is a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u297	Isn't that read?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u298	Of course not. It's okay. In final provisions, § 9 is amended: ..................................................... In the Law on the Budget of State Social Security for 2020 (DV, No. 99 from 2019) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1 para. 1 and 2 are amended as follows: It shall adopt the general budget of state social security under revenue and transfers of a total of 14 369 706,4 thousand. BGN as follows: (table of the report). It shall adopt the general budget of the State Social Security for the expenditure and transfers of a total of 13 455,690.4 thousand. BGN as follows: (table of the report). 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: (a) para. 1 is amended as follows: It shall adopt the budget of the Fund of Pensions on revenue and transfers of a total of 5 254 917,8 thousand. BGN, as follows: (Report item). (b) para. 3 is amended as follows: The Commission shall adopt a deficit (excess) under the Fund's budget, as follows: (recitals to the report). 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5 the following amendments shall be made: (a) para. 1 is amended as follows: It shall adopt the budget of the Fund "Truday accident and occupational sickness' for revenue and transfers of a total amount of 224 031.9 thousand. BGN, as follows: (Report item). (b) para. 3 is amended as follows: The Commission shall adopt a deficit (excess) under the Fund's budget of the Fund of Labour accident and occupational sickness, as follows: (report report). 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 the following amendments shall be made: (a) para. 1 is amended as follows: The total amount of EUR 1 166 316,7 thousand shall be added to the total amount of EUR 1 166 316,7 thousand. BGN, as follows: (Report item). (b) para. 3 is amended as follows: It shall adopt a deficit (excess) under the Fund's budget of the total disease and disability as follows: (recital to the report). 5. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7 the following amendments shall be made: (a) para. 1 is amended as follows: It shall adopt the Fund's budget for unemployment on revenue and transfers of a total amount of 323 034.3 thousand. BGN, as follows: (Report item). (b) para. 2 is amended as follows: It shall adopt the Fund's budget for unemployment on expenditure and transfers of a total amount of 2 352 307.3 thousand. BGN as follows: (table of the report). (c) para. 3 is amended as follows: It shall adopt a deficit (excess) under the Fund's budget of the Fund (Effective work) as follows: (Table of the report). 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: (a) para. 1 is amended as follows: It shall adopt the budget of the National Insurance Institute for Revenue and Transfers of a total of 6 6 686 548.4 thousand. BGN as follows: (table of the report). (b) para. 3 is amended as follows: The Commission shall adopt a deficit (excess) and funding under the National Insurance Institute's budget as follows: (regarding the report). The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u299	Are there any speeches? Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u300	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! Listening to the debates, we from the Parliamentary Group of the Volya are ready to support such an editorial change in GERB's proposal under point one, namely: 5 of the financial programme under the budget of the National Assembly is equal to an average monthly salary in the public sector, according to the data of the National Statistical Institute for December 2019 and we declare that if this thing is adopted, we will withdraw our proposal for the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u301	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u302	Mr. President, very briefly in connection with the final debate. I will again call on the parties to support the update of the budget. I do not see significant dividing lines, although the short term did not allow some of the proposals to be technologically drawn up to follow the logic of the Law, but in this type of debate and in this speedy work it is hardly a cause for criticism on the substance. Rather, the main difference between the positions of the government and the position of some of the MPs is related to the extent and depth of measures to be taken, with the main dividing line as if I had correctly understood from the debate, the attitude towards self-insured persons and the approach to unconditional income of them. The economic doctrine has long talked about unconditional base income, even experiments have been done in the world. Perhaps after decades, when industrial relations change to such an extent that the only redistribution mechanism remains the subject of unconditional basic income, it will come on the agenda, but today I rather support the thesis that we are at the beginning of an unpredictable in scale and duration crisis, for God sake, to be shorter, where the moment for such a social experiment has not yet come. Can we argue that some people have lost income without participating in the insurance system, very quickly and without the assessment of their assets to throw away some money? By the way, I was pleasantly surprised during all the weeks of debate that the head of the Bulgarian is no longer a comparison with the countries of our rug, but we went there to see the politics of the United States, Germany and Switzerland. This speaks, by the way, very well of convergence in the spirit of the Bulgarians. I don't know if, as workability and added value, we have reached it, but spiritually, we have obviously been so converging that we can already compare ourselves to the world's leading economies, something that, at least as a starting point, is rather positive. Unfortunately, the financial realities are not exactly such and therefore, I say again, we continue to reflect on the topic with those who have not been involved in insurance because of the organization of their work, and I am not convinced that without the assessment of their income we should lightly distribute the scarce resources in the Bulgarian budget. By the way, my fellow Members on the left are proposing a solution that, however, has not been determined in time how it works. Because if this is only about one month, that should mean at least three months of applying a similar measure, which of these 900 million should look at at least three times more expensive, or am I mistaken, I didn't hear it in the debate? Rather, you say that for the three months it will be enough, but if you evaluate 800 thousand self-insuring by declarations at the National Revenue Agency or if you do not limit them in your legislative proposal, there will be no easy answer. Once again, what is proposed by the government as first measures has advantages, perhaps for some there are shortcomings. However, the philosophy of participation in the provision by the State, i.e. providing part of the income for retained employment, would be pointless as a measure if it did not provide for a minimal participation by the employer. Because the goal is, after all, a similar measure to keep the income of employed people. And if employers, with all the criticism we have heard in recent weeks on such a measure, are reluctant to participate in anything, where are we talking about solidarity in this measure? The challenges of forecasting stand. I am not saying that this update could not contain other elements, but I can assure you that it is fully consistent with the state being able to perform its functions in the coming months and by the end of the year. Believe me, the debate will be more difficult after the end of the pandemic part of the crisis, not now, so let us not rush into measures that we can take at any time at the next stage. Yeah, people need comfort. The first phase of relief comes from the fact that the social system of the state is armed with sufficient resources to be able to withstand the influx that will be directed at it. The second line of business support, some assess it as insufficient, others assess it as working. After today's meeting, there will be further optimization, which really enables those employers who have partially maintained their activities and want to participate, I repeat, in solidarity with their workers and to continue to provide employment income, to participate. These employers who do not really have the opportunity to separate any lev from their own resources or have 100% ceased the activity, perhaps for them we will have to seek assistance after the crisis. Because at the moment a restaurant will probably need interest-free lending or other assistance to be able to re-start its activity. I don't want to get into this debate. I would like to assure you that as the government debt limit increases, I will seek the most optimal solutions for the financing of the Bulgarian budget and, God forbid, it is necessary not to reach its entire limit. Various are the signals that markets are giving at this time, but any action is still public and cannot remain hidden from the audience and especially from parliament as the employer of the Council of Ministers. Today we will close an issue of Bulgarian five-year eurobonds on the internal market with a relatively good yield. Of course, in the government's armaments, all possible alternative funding scenarios must be in place, because, indeed, in a currency board situation, the most unpleasant feeling is that the budget should remain liquidity-free. Otherwise, the debate on self-insuring could continue, but I repeat, without assessing the property situation of each and every one of them lightly to launch an unfulfilled mechanism for unconditional basic income in our reality, for me is premature and not fully socially justified, because there are many socially weak people who are currently not self-insured who will not receive the minimum wage that you are offering. Is that fair? I don't think so. I don't think so. Therefore, let us be moderate in the first days of the crisis and judge very precisely so as to allocate resources to those who are actually most affected. Most of them are covered by the measures so far. I hope that together with you we can continue to expand them. Not many things have been done along the lines of the banking system. You know that the European Banking Authority came up with guidance and guidance. Our commercial banks have adapted these guidelines to their activities and I want to assure all Bulgarian borrowers, small and medium-sized businesses and not only will they meet maximum flexibility from the commercial banks. Within days, the measures related to the resource that we invest in the Bulgarian Development Bank will also start with regard to interest-free lending to individuals and portfolio guarantees in respect of legal entities. In the sub-development of the measures related to the state guarantee, which is due at the end of today, if the changes in the state budget are approved, to be issued in favour of the Bulgarian Development Bank, which will allow in the coming days to expand the instruments with which the government through the Bulgarian Development Bank intervents on the financial sector, understand the banks. I hope the epidemiological crisis resolves quickly in the next month, two. Then together, however, colleagues, within the same budget and the same resources of the state, we will have to consider recovery measures. So today I thank everyone who will support the budget. We remain to debate on self-serving. However, let us also bear in mind what I said that such a measure, without assessing the financial situation of each individual, will be unbalanced from the perspective of the other participants in the socio-economic life of the country and any reasonable idea in this direction can be considered and shared. Together with Minister Sacheva, we are working on changes in the Decree, which regulates the so-called measure 60/40 with a view to adapting it further to the cases of life and issues that arise from individual candidates for such support. I think that in the next few days the measure will be optimized in a way that will become much more acceptable in terms of business. Of course, there are businesses that in this period of crisis will not be able to continue to exist in this form. For them there will be low-interest and interest-free lending as soon as we open and remove all measures imposed by the quarantine, by social distancement, all measures proposed by the Headquarters and related their medical appropriateness. On a similar package, we need to start thinking now and I propose that all parties represented in Parliament initiate such ideas. We could not start the debate between the parties in time. We heard different ideas today. Some of them have their practical application. Thank you for your support with regard to the budget and the different views. Thank you for not being dramatic about taking on a new debt, because it will only be spending within the budget in the way it has been voted by the National Assembly, and I hope in a few months we have forgotten the most dramatic part of the crisis we are currently in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u303	Thank you, dear Minister. With that, we've finished second point. Let's continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW ON MEASURES AND ACTIONS ON THE TIME OF THE EXEMPTAL POSITION REFERRED TO BY DECISION OF THE PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING OF 13 MARCH 2020 Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova, to brief us on the Committee on Legal Affairs Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u304	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, No 054-01-28, submitted by Krasimir Georgiev Tsipov, Emil Marinov Hristov and Anna Vasileva Alexandrova on 2 April 2020, adopted at the first vote on 3 April 2020. The Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, was amended and supplemented by the Act on Measures and Actions during the emergency situation. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. Under § 2, there is a proposal from the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Hristian Mitev and Anna Alexandrova according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3 the 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 the words "criminal proceedings under the Law on Extradition and the European Arrest Warrant and the proceedings relating to enforcement measures' shall be replaced by the proceedings and cases referred to in the Annex. 2. point 2 is amended as follows: "2." the limitation periods with which rights are exercised or acquired by the entities concerned; 3. Point 3 is repealed. According to § 3 there is a proposal from the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov and a group of Members of the National Assembly .................................................. Article 4 is amended as follows: Art. 4. (1) Where a natural person or person representing a legal person cannot exercise a right or fulfil an obligation within the statutory or administrative time limit for reasons such as compulsory isolation (carantine), hospitalization in hospital care facilities or absence by the party during the emergency situation, the competent authority shall, on the basis of a reasoned request, determine a new period which shall start after dropping the relevant reason. (2) Where a natural person or a person representing a legal person cannot exercise a right or fulfil an obligation within the statutory or administrative time limit due to unforeseen circumstances outside those of para. 1, the competent authority may, on the basis of a reasoned request, set a new period starting after the relevant circumstance has been dropped. (3) The request under para. 1 or 2 shall be made by the person or by a proxy with a power of attorney without a notary certification in writing sent by mail, by e-mail, fax or other means. (4) The proceedings relating to public procurement, concession procedures, proceedings under the Law on the Management of Funds of the European Structural and Investment Funds, under Chapter 3 of the State Property Act and Chapter 3 of the Municipal Property Act, under Chapters Seven, Eight and Thirteen, Sections II and III of the Law on Structure in the Area and under the Law on Protection of Competition, shall not apply to the proceedings relating to public procurement. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Alexander Ivanov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version for § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: In the present case, the Commission considers that the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. According to § 5, there is a proposal from the MP Boris Vangelov. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in art. 6b. Proposal by the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Alexander Ivanov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. Article 6 is amended as follows: Art. 6. Until the end of the exceptional situation in the event of late payment of liabilities to private entities, debtors under credit agreements and other forms of financing (factoring, forfeting and others) provided by banks and financial institutions under art. 3 of the Law on Credit Institutions, including where the claims are acquired by other banks, financial institutions or third parties, and under lease contracts, no interest shall be charged for delays and penalties, the obligation cannot be declared early due and the contract cannot be broken down due to default and no property can be seized.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u305	Let's stop at § 5. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u306	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! Since the report is not text by text, article by article, I will start from the most essential, in my opinion, namely § 5, art. 6, in which you make a serious retreat from the originally adopted Emergency Act, which gave protection to all legal entities debtors in connection with a contract and its consequences, if not implemented, for fun. This was about the debtors of heating, electricity distribution companies, water companies, and you didn't accept it back then. With the change in art. 6 You are practically depriving them of this protection under the state of emergency. Moreover, even so recorded, the text also tolerates criticism in its current version because you have written that the obligation cannot be declared early due and the contract cannot be broken due to default. Thus recorded, in practice means that enforcement proceedings can be initiated against the debtor because you have described that you cannot seize items. The seizure of items, honourable Members, is part of the execution process, and not necessarily. You have recorded that the obligation cannot be early due, but within the state of emergency, the maturity of the obligation in this period may have occurred, and then it will not be early due, but it will have occurred and the debtor will owe. What you've done is that here you can start the execution process, but in practice you can't complete it. Next, you have written that the contract cannot be broken in principle, only that the contract is between two or more parties. Which side can't be broken? That's not specific. It should also be specified here that it is from the creditor, because the contract can be broken and the debtor also needs to be broken if the creditor fails to fulfil part of his contractual obligations. You missed that, which means even the debtor in this hypothesis can't ask for a break in the contract. At the same time, you give the creditor and the opportunity, as I said, to launch an enforcement procedure without being able to complete it, but that is not the main thing in this text. The problem here is that in practice you deprive the Bulgarian citizens, the one you provided thanks to our impacts in the first part, in the current law, of a large part of the Bulgarian citizens. You say that it would increase the inter-company debt, reduce the flow of goods, think at all within a normal market environment, only that the market environment, honourable Members, is not normal at all. We have closed borders, a lack of supplies of certain goods, and this measure, which now operates, is for everyone, and if one firm fails to fulfil its obligations to another firm, then this, the second, may also fail to fulfil its obligations to a third firm. That doesn't mean she doesn't owe. On the contrary, it owes, but does not owe, these injurious consequences to the context of the emergency situation of the delay. These are the so-called interest rates, which are at least three types: mortorial, contractual and rewarding. We're talking here about the moratorium or the so-called legal interest, which is the basic interest rate plus 10 points, which is scary. That is, you are telling these people that Bulgarian citizens who are most affected, who are unemployed, who are literally out on the street and without any income, that you deprive them of this protection, that they will not be able to benefit, but only those who have any credit to a bank or financial institution, or if this credit has been ceded to so-called collectors' companies and this protection is still conditional, it is not complete. [[The National Representative Philip Popov and the President shall be specified separately from the microphones.]] That's what I meant by §6. I am sure that my colleagues in the parliamentary group will also make further arguments as to why we do not support this proposal. But the main thing is that this is a serious retreat from the protection of the rights of Bulgarian citizens in the context of this severe crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u307	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u308	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Personally, I'm surprised at what I'm seeing here in front of me, and what we're voting on in an hour or two, maybe. If someone could then explain here what happened in those days, from when we voted the original version of the Law to date, to proceed to such a drastic amendment of art. 6, where was a truly exceptional protection given to Bulgarian citizens?! What happened, what weaknesses did you see, and most of all to answer the minister or importer, or anyone else: who put pressure on importers to make this change? Why did the Bulgarian citizens who had just calmed down that they would not be sought by a service provider of the Internet, telephone, television, electricity distribution companies, VIC companies, and whatever else you can think of, and let it have only some protection, say, from banks or other financial institutions that have given him credit in one form or another? I'm sorry, but this is still some form of discrimination! Firstly, in terms of citizens. Secondly, in relation to the institutions that you are currently seeking to impose any restriction on. I'm talking about banks, as you wrote them here. 3 of the Credit Institutions Act, including when loans are acquired by other banks and third parties, regardless of who are third parties, that is, you make privileged ones at the expense of others. What does that thing have to do with anything? Why didn't the old regime stay? What happened in those few days? Who felt affected? Will banks feel less the burden of all these measures than the electricity distribution companies in the case of which we are currently removing protection of citizens against their actions in one period? To remind you of the debates we had at the initial adoption of the Law when we had proposed texts to protect Bulgarian citizens by giving them the opportunity to postpone the payment of their accounts. No, on the contrary, you gave up those texts. Now you are forcing us even more freedom, untieing your hands even more seriously, along with all the legal inaccuracies that colleague Popov just commented here. Indeed, you are putting the situation in an extremely complicated direction, all the more so that just now in the State Budget Act, you rejected this possibility that those who are in an extremely serious situation, such as employees who have left on unpaid leave receive a subsidy from the State for the period when they are not working and are not receiving a salary. In what way, then, of these people, of this category of persons we guarantee here, as MPs, the state, respectively, after the decisions taken in the National Assembly and the laws voted, that they will be able to have a really normal life, that they will survive, that is, that they will be able to survive physically? There's no guarantee! You see that the employers themselves say that the measure 60/40 does not work. I am not sure whether it will work in this version, which is voted in the State Budget Act, because there are different specifics in each enterprise and much of the businesses today cannot benefit from this measure, even if they want, for one reason or another. Maybe in a month or two, they'll come into this hypothesis, but to date, they can't, and they're massing their workers on unpaid leave. These people will actually be the victims of these amendments that are currently being proposed in art. 6. What happened? Why was this change necessary at the last moment? I am listening carefully to you and to the Minister of Transport, who is a serious failure in the transport sector, this means mass dismissal; we are also listening to the social minister, who explains every day how many people go to the labour market. Come on, the state will in some way compensate them as unemployment benefits, for the temporary condition they are in, but those whose companies do not want to take this step and have put them on unpaid leave, and they do not take any money, except that they are being paid for the insurance. Think about this thesis! Why do we privilege some creditors at the expense of other creditors? What's the difference between one creditor and the other? One of them has more reserves? The state in any way I did not at least understand in the State Budget Act that one would receive more funding than the other, some protection at the expense of the Bulgarian citizens?! So, the hypothesis that you are currently building with this proposal is extremely harmful and you will personally suffer these negative consequences only after days, after weeks, when you knock on the door of the Bulgarian taxpayers different institutions, such as energy, as telephone services and whatever else in this order, which will make their lives extremely hard and do not give yourself God to be in the situation unpaid leave, where they really cannot make any useful move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u309	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Mitev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u310	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! I take the floor because this text has said a lot of false things. The text in force was proposed by me and my colleague Alexandrova and was entirely noble. Unfortunately, however, it turned out that, since it was made and adopted in extremely short terms due to the emergency situation, this text creates problems with regard to trade turnover. Too many trading companies have started sending to their counterparties not to individuals, to other trading companies, letters and applications that, on the basis of art. 6 of the Law on Measures and Actions in Emergency, they will not pay the debts, which leads to an increase in inter-company debt and do not need anyone after the end of the emergency situation to see a mass, hundreds of cases in the commercial chambers of district insolvency courts. They will, anyway, occur as a result of the economic crisis caused by the COVID-19 epidemic and the emergency situation associated with it. The truth is, art. 6 protects an extremely large circle of natural and legal persons, and this is seen from the term "private entities" used in respect of all types of loans, other forms of funding, I will not issue them, the text is in front of you, you can see it. This applies not only to banks, it refers to non-bank financial institutions, it refers to collector companies, it refers to a rather wide range of creditors. You're talking about the other potential creditors of the individuals. I will ask the person who claims that there is no protection to look at the texts relating to the judicial execution. In the Law on Measures and Actions in Emergency, we have foreseen that no enforcement is carried out, no enforcement action is taken by creditors, the applicants in a single enforcement case. Excuse me, but if the courts are not working, how do you imagine any enforcement action to be carried out and enforcement proceedings to be initiated? Not to mention enforcement under these conditions will at least violate the measures and actions provided for in the Order of the Minister of Health on this occasion. So I believe that this version of the text, on the one hand, protects the Bulgarian citizens to the maximum extent in terms of the adverse consequences of the delay in fulfilling the obligations to which it cannot fail to reach one part of our fellow citizens, and, on the other hand, it does not result in an increase in inter-company indebtedness and a halt in business turnover. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u311	Thank you. - What's the line? Line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u312	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mr. Mitev, I cannot agree at all with the arguments you have put forward here, before us, for the reasons and the way in which you are submitting this text to us and want it to be supported. No one will understand you, believe me! Because at the very least, making a confession here, from the stands, that at the very first adoption of the Law you accepted something written on your feet and now tell us that we are re-accepting texts that are written on the leg............................................................. I cannot agree with these arguments, because you had to do carefully and precisely if you want to remove these problems that arose and concerning the inter-company debt, to specify the text so as not to refer to private entities in all the hypotheses that were listed in the previous version of the Law. This means that the lack of adequate work of this Parliament, which we have been arguing about since the previous days, leads to such distortions, which we are witnessing today and which will fall on the back of the Bulgarian citizens of the ordinary Bulgarian citizens. It's the truth! Our call is: withdraw this change and, as soon as possible, this Parliament will come together again and vote on a precise text that really protects Bulgarian citizens. And all these handicaps, and negatives that have established themselves in terms of inter-company turnover, and increasing inter-company debt, to be cleared, but not at the expense of the ordinary taxpayer, not at the expense of the one who is currently groaning, dries and stuttering..... what will happen tomorrow............................. if he will be able to buy food for the child, will he be able to pay his bill, will he be able in any way to provide the existential of his existence in this country, called the Republic of Bulgaria, of which, with similar texts, we are depreventing its existence?! It's embarrassing! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u313	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Another line? Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u314	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ivanov, in fact, with nothing you have said, I cannot agree. This was an entirely political, emotional statement from which there was neither legal nor logical nor any other argument. Why? If you cared so much about the Bulgarian citizens, we would see your proposals in this direction in the first version of the Bill and in the current Law on Amendment and Supplement. We did not see such proposals. In one case the text was proposed by colleague Alexandrova and myself, in the second case the proposal was made by colleagues from GERB, I proposed by MPs from the Bulgarian Socialist Party did not see this text. We listened at first reading how bad it was, how it didn't work, how fast it was. Now we hear again that at second reading, it's no good either. Well, we're listening from you guys, just how this doesn't work and we don't hear any alternative. I'm sorry, but since we're not hearing from you an alternative, I think it's actually an infertile criticism without sufficient motivation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u315	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Let's move on. Mrs. Nieva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u316	Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a difficult situation here, a state of emergency, and now we are all talking about solidarity. Yes, it is most important and we must apply solidarity by protecting the most vulnerable groups from citizens. But what do you colleagues of GERB offer us in the norms we are discussing today? Well, there's no solidarity. Because we're talking about art. 6, I think that it rather than guaranteeing the protection of the most vulnerable citizens, who will suffer the most financially from the current situation, on the contrary, reduces this protection because it introduces different criteria for legal entities. Art. 6 reduces creditors only to banks, financial institutions and lease obligations. What about the fast credit companies?! [[Replication by National Representative Anna Alexandrova.]] Yeah, okay. This text creates prerequisites even for people and companies who can pay their debts but do not, because they will not be forced to do so, for example, with penalty interest and penalty payments. To answer Mr. Mitev's question: why will BSP not support this text and we have not made proposals to it? Don't you get it, we just don't want this text to be voted on? We want the legal framework to remain the way it was because it protects citizens' rights in greater quantities because creditors are not just banks and financial institutions. What about the debtors to the Toplofication, to the water companies and so on?! Therefore, honourable Members, we have neither made any proposals nor will support this text.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u317	Thank you, Ms. Niva. The line, Mr. Mitev, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u318	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Niva! In fact, we need to make the following clarification. Firstly, this text refers not only to banks, not only to collector companies, but also to fast credit companies. That is why we have made the application of the.............................................................................................. With regard to "Topplofication" I have the feeling that an absolutely false statement on this text is being suggested here. The text in force shall not delete the obligations, Members. And the text that's in place is the only thing that tells you is that the consequences of the fun don't apply. Punitive morratory interest, respectively early demand, possession of property, and the imposition of a claim only that, only that, nothing else. The obligation continues to exist, it shall not be deleted, claims shall not be forgiven. In a month's time, God willing, the client will continue to owe these amounts. It's better to think about what we're doing after the emergency is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u319	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. There's no other line. It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u320	Dear Mr. Mitev, we never wanted the very duty to be simplified. On the contrary, the preference here is not to pay interest and penalty on these contracts. So these are completely different things that I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u321	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you wanted the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u322	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will recall some of the positions on disputes in relation to art. 6, because I feel some BSP colleagues calling, such as hearing it for the first time and actually in the arrangement of the speeches peaked colleagues who did not really participate in the debate. But I will put the question in principle: were you even involved in the debate about art. Six? I'll remind you this. At the second reading of the original text of art. 6, which was after 19.30 in the Committee on Legal Affairs, there was not a single representative from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria to participate in this discussion. Then, roughly by my calculations, looking at the transcript, the proposal was made by colleague Mitev and Mrs Anna Alexandrova. Where, however, could you participate? At the working group before this meeting, where within about four hours this issue was discussed very thoroughly and in many details. I saw when Mr. Ivanov spoke, how sweetly Mr. Krum Zarkov smiled because there was a novelty, i.e. Mr. Ivanov with one initial energy was surprised what had happened. Since you are not sure and have not yet understood what has happened, I will allow myself to say the following: in the working group the debate was the following: the initial text covered three groups of obligations. The first, largest group, Ms. Niva, is the one that is in credit and related relationships or arising relationships under credit or leasing contracts. We assumed it was the biggest group of debts. I will not commit myself to a number of whether it is more than half in the mass of liabilities, or is another proportion, but you have always claimed in this Chamber that this is a huge burden for debtors that banks should drop out of the GPC from the text of art. 417 that banks almost did not abuse, squeezed out the blood of the debtor, who, however, voluntarily went to them, made mortgage contracts, gave all the collateral and so on. That's why the focus we started with was protection against the banks. In this debate, in its earliest phase there was the text... in the academic text, because it came from lecturers from Sofia University, and obligations to public service providers, the so-called Utility sector. The question was: may or may not include obligations to suppliers, what will be the consequences? The third group of liabilities were all other liabilities. For example, if Mr. Ivanov and I had a civil lease or a loan or a loan or something like that. In the debate in the Legal Committee at second reading, which I have not attended, Mr. Popov, has prevailed the universal, full thesis. Again, I didn't plead back then. After a statement by Mr. Philip Popov at 5:30 P.M., the two representatives of BSP left. What happened after that? The text has come into force. Many subjects reacted to this text. All business associations reacted. All the reactions were in the direction: this is how you create a bomb in the business, you will not fulfill the obligations, you support the lack of discipline. In these two weeks, in fact, because Mr Popov says that there are such objections, it has not become clear whether such objections have been made, it has not become clear whether the conscientious debtor continues to perform, it has not become clear what is the number of claims in which one of the parties has invoked art. 6, but everyone said there was such a danger. With regard to the second group of liabilities, the one you commented on and you had submitted a draft decision to suspend obligations to the Utilites suppliers. There was a debate here for hours and there was a vote on this debate. N number are the letters from Bulgargaz, Bulgartransgaz, the thermal and gas companies that say, "Well, what?" We'll be overindebted for a month, but we have to pay Gazprom. Gazprom and I have an international agreement at which we owe a price. If we don't pay, they'll shut us down. What are we going to do with security of supply? " - Those were the reasons, Mr. Ivanov. It's strange to me how about a debate that's been going on for two weeks, you came out with a surprise and said, "I don't know anything. This was discussed, commented, wrote, discussed in all formats, at all levels. I will repeat what I say, you decide which is the greatest danger. If we despise that the most severe and the most frightening are debts to banks, collectors and other financial and non-financial credit institutions, yes, we remain protected there. If we consider that this protection should be in relation to all subjects, then you should judge, Mr. Ivanov, is it right for me to refer to you as to this circumstance, is it necessary for the law to motivate me to do nothing, and I may not have a good reason, I can safely get you back, say, the iPad you have served me, I have already served with it, but I say: no, it has a law, we will wait for the emergency to end, the law protects me now. Is that fair? Is that fair? And in such a way, shouldn't we leave the subjects the freedom of negotiation, which is guaranteed by the law, and let them understand each other? Many landlords have an interest and are negotiating rent payments themselves, payments at the rental price in this period of crisis. Why? Because they want to keep their contract, they want to keep their tenant, and they're willing to agree on something less, but not lose their tenants, because then they'll have to look for a new one over a certain period of time, which for them is a waste. Many texts are being discussed, have been read for discussion. I will refrain only from this text, although others who have been read deserved their comment. I'll just say that in art. 6, Mr. Popov, in no way changes the principle of art. 87 of the Law on Obligations and Contracts, i.e. the right-wing party could always ask for the cancellation of the contract except in this case and only the creditor. There's no inequality! This is where the debtor is overprotective. We overprotective the debtor, I hope we didn't make a mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u323	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u324	It's a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u325	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u326	I've been mentioned so many times since the beginning...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u327	It wasn't insulting, Mr. Ivanov, it was nothing offensive, but... Mr. Popov, how about you? And you're a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u328	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! If you can hardly distinguish one person's emotional moods, this is another problem, because seeing you in the attitude of least disgust to what is about to happen, connecting them with a smile, this is some mistake. From there, I don't know how you saw it, but I'm telling you that I'm personally shocked by what's about to happen and the change in this law. You're talking about emptiness. It's not empty, Minister. There may be chasms in your knowledge of what is being voted on at the moment and what is to come.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u329	I didn't say nothing.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u330	That's what you just said. [[Replication by National Representative Anna Alexandrova.]] The stupidity that you will end up here, which replicates me to the right, will be much greater than anything else that can crash on the head of Bulgarian citizens outside of this disease, which is floating everywhere and we are trying to overcome the consequences of it. You are obviously very irritated because this thing that is about to fall on the head of Bulgarian citizens, you yourself do not realize its size. We talk, we comment... [[Replication by National Representative Anna Alexandrova.]] I'm giving you a personal explanation, you're not the chairman, Mrs. Alexandrova! Once you're chairman here, keep your wits...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u331	I'm saying it's not about the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u332	Mr. Chairman, can you stop her from replicating me from the spot?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u333	Finish it, Mr. Ivanov. Mrs. Alexandrova, stay calm.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u334	Let everyone know their place in this room. So neither have you understood perhaps from the debates and now I will repeat it again, to understand it again, I say again: a quick, leg-accepted text initially, which has brought its negative consequences, you haven't even thought about it, yet a second time on the leg is accepted something that further creates aggravation [[the President signals that time has run out]] and problems of Bulgarian citizens. It's the truth!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u335	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u336	Intercompany debt is something that should have been decided, not landed on others!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u337	Finish it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u338	This is the problem that you don't want to understand and you can't understand.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u339	The Deputy Minister for one day has no one else to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u340	Be careful what you say, because it's being recorded!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u341	I know it's being recorded.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u342	Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u343	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! You falsely claim that I should start from the fact that we did not participate in the working group on the first bill. On the contrary, by noon we actually participated in the working group, which discussed only and only the proposals tabled by the political party GERB, and they were not discussed until the end of everything, because there was no possibility, because practically between first and second reading the law was rewritten completely! It had nothing to do with what we accepted here in the first vote. So in practice, this law, which now acts for the state of emergency, is adopted at one reading, is not even in two readings. Then for leaving at five to fifteen, two colleagues...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u344	5:30.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u345	5:30 p.m. okay. Firstly, it is not true that we were only two colleagues, it is visible from both the cameras and from the recordings, we were all representatives of our parliamentary group in the Legal Commission. Let me remind you, Mr. Minister, that you yourself wanted to interrupt the session because of the chaos that was created in the Legal Commission and because of the inadequate reports that were presented to us, and because it was discussed on the knee again, some texts were read without having them before us and most MPs, not to say all of them, did not know what they were voting! That's why we left. However, one of the achievements of this law that you adopted and the basic text was precisely art. Six! You now and from it do, not you, but the parliamentary group of GERB make retreats by importing a completely different text. And last but not least, Dear Minister, this is a special law regarding the Law on Obligations and Contracts, you know it very well! And here it is clearly written: the contract cannot be broken due to default. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Period! That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u346	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Procedure, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u347	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is the way it is, and it's for you. I ask you very much to follow the Rules strictly if you are giving the opportunity for a personal explanation after the Minister's speech whether the Rules are respected, if you are giving a procedure in the manner of conduct...................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u348	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. We are continuing the debate. Here you go, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u349	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! So far, the debate sounds like we have a clear horizon for lifting the anti-epidemic measures and we are already at a stage of restarting the economy. That's what it sounds like. Because we had a working text, whose scope as subjects and as consequences you greatly narrow, only here until yesterday and today you convince us that the most difficult moments are coming, that is to say, there is no logic that a working and useful text for individuals should be cancelled. In the place of Minister Kirilov I would not go back to that commission, because on your part, Mr. Kirilov, she is, can only be a cause for shame. I remind you that this was the committee in which the MPs did not know what a few reports were voting on, an oral retold, and ultimately that was the reason why we were gone at 7:30. But this text was supported by us in the Chamber.... the old version of art. 6. And I would like to respond to an accusation that the opposition had offered nothing. "But what do you, colleagues of BSP suggest? ".......... the working text to stay and it is not working only in our opinion, read the opinion of the lawyer. These are the people who protect these individuals and who daily in the Bulgarian courts deal with the consequences of the adopted regimes. I am counting on it to be clear what BSP is actually proposing and supporting: Until the emergency situation is lifted, the consequences of late payment of liabilities to individuals, including interest and penalties for delays, as well as the non-cash consequences such as early demand, termination of contract and possession of property, apply. "This is the working text that we hold. In this case, what you offer narrows the scope and I give you a concrete example in essence: companies are credited not only by financial institutions, but also by loans. This will increase the inter-company debt, will in practice lead to bankruptcy, as many market entities will supposedly fall into insolvency. It's inevitable. So so far I have heard no arguments about what the working text is not good with and why you are replacing it with a significantly worse one for the market right now! Thank you. [[Applause and lines "Bravo" by BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u350	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Are there any lines? Line, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u351	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleague Bozhankov! I'm already hearing mixed signals from your group and from the left side of the room. Once we're told how the text isn't good, then you tell us how good it is and you want it to stay, the first time a colleague on the left tells us that it's written on the knee, then you tell us that it's perfect, wonderful. What's true? Is it beautiful, is it written on the knee, is it good, is it terrifying? The truth is that this text is causing problems at the moment, problems of traders, problems of trade turnover and inter-company debt. All afternoon we are listening to statements from all sides of this House about how businesses should be supported, the economy, so that after the end of the emergency situation the country can recover quickly, people's incomes too, employment should also be supported. And at the same time, when we are trying exactly to confront a problem that would hinder and harm the trade turnover, you are telling us: well, no, keep the current situation, ruin the trade turnover, let there be a huge inter-company debt and have a huge number of businesses that will enter bankruptcy proceedings! Well, there's no way we're gonna let that happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u352	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. I can't see a second line. A hole, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u353	Dear Mr. Mitev, obviously we have conceptual differences and this is the dispute essentially here. You think you're helping, we think you're making a fatal mistake. After all, very soon those affected will give an assessment of your decision. It's obviously taken, and it's about to come true. The opposition colleagues and I are in a ridiculous position to put on a rope, and we are in pursuit of you and remove this rope from your neck, but if you have decided to tighten the noose.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u354	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u355	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The debate on the amendments of art. 6 and this is normally one of the most important texts in this law, but in fact we are debating together changes in several provisions and each of them deserves a few words, at least to make it clear to the Bulgarian citizens what is happening at this time. It's changing art. 2 of the Law, which I remind you, at the very beginning had to discharge all those restrictive measures that the Ministry of Health imposed to limit the spread of the disease by the CIVID-19. In the course of the debates this never happened and we reached those moments when a minister issued an order in the evening and canceled it in the morning. We have now had a chance to correct it, instead we are offered simply to record that the act of the Minister of Health is subject to prior execution. Now, what exactly does this text mean? It is most likely that some individual acts of the Minister of Health under the Foreigners Act have such grounds, but most, not most, but the appeal against his orders does not stop their execution, so this text is largely pointless. It may be intended to stop the avalanche of appeals that these orders are challenging, but will not achieve that goal. We hope that it will remain only safe, as meaningless, and not create further confusion. In the next paragraph of the Law there is a serious change and it must be congratulated between the amendment tabled at first reading, which practically did by the Supreme Judicial Council legislative authority, and now, when, as a result of the criticism, both our opposition and the Magistrate circles and the professional community, importers have corrected themselves and proposed those cases which will continue to be dealt with in this period, during which time limits will not cease to flow, to be written in an annex to the Law, i.e. to be settled on a legal level. It's the constitutional way. We will think about what this list is when we come to this application, but right now we have to say that this is more of a good evolution than it was proposed a few days ago. And since you ask: what does the opposition do, this does: points out those mistakes that can be corrected. Sometimes you take care of yourself. This could have been done with art. 2, since these orders for the Minister of Health are yet to be subject to different judicial control, whatever is written now in this law. With regard to the protection of citizens, which was the attention of the legislator, both in the first law and now, there were two important texts. One of them is the one in art. 4 which extends by one month from the cancellation of the emergency situation, i.e. once it is cancelled, one month is extended ex lege by law, all deadlines not mentioned in the previous article, and which is a very important period of protection for citizens' rights. This article was also threatened by proposals from the importers of the Bill, but as a result of the debate in the Commission yesterday, in which we, Mr Minister, were actively involved, the importers gave up their idea of changing it, not turning citizens into applicants of the administration and not creating prerequisites for some to postpone the time limits, and others did not. We were hoping this would be the approach to art. 6.... the text that we are now thinking about. Enough legal arguments have been put forward in one direction or another. In order not to waste time, just to explain what the new change means. By virtue of the previous text, which was far from perfect, but by virtue of this text, if you're going to be locked up at home under quarantine following an order or you can't come out following the recommendations that you've been made all day, you've lost your job and you have no income and you can't pay your electricity, the previous version has forbidden the Energo to stop it, with this editing you will be able to stop it. That's the difference. Is there or is there no risk to trade and civil turnover? Each of the texts of this Emergency Act raises such risks. The key is the duration of their implementation. Here it is very clear the difference between our vision and what is offered to us. You insist on protecting the merchants, we insist on protecting the people.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u356	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Line, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u357	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Zarkov, with the majority of your speech I agree with the final part regarding art. But I'm not. Actually, what you said wasn't true. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 and in the current version there is nowhere written that if the obligation is not fulfilled or the performance is delayed, the current or the heating or the water or whatever it is will not be cut off. 6 And in his present imperfect or perfect, as you will, determine the version. What is recorded is the following: no morratory interest, penalty interest for late payment will be declared early due, no items will be seized. This is written in the current text. It is written in the new text. Nowhere will the contract be terminated. No such thing is recorded anywhere, that the goods or services will not be delivered, that is, that they will be delivered continuously. There's no record of that. Furthermore, I do not consider commercial companies which are also employers of a large proportion of people, as some part of that country that is cut off, which are not interested in having quality and adequately insured workers or employees. When we worry that we will have a wave of insolvency cases due to the inter-company debt, it is also because of those people working in these companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u358	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Mrs. Alexandrova's line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u359	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Zarkov, my line to you is regarding art. 6 on this, when you mention the opinions of the Lawyer, mention the positive opinions in support of the new text of art. 6, i.e. the opinion of the CRIB, the opinion of the Bulgarian Industrial Association, the opinion of the employers' organizations and the opinion of the Ombudsman. One more sentence I would like to say in terms of electricity payment. This problem, and citizens could be calm, is set out in § 2 of the PIO of the basic law that we have already adopted. It says that the deadline for payment of electricity bills is extended. In addition, rights shall be delegated to the Minister of Energy by which he may extend the payment period. So please, when you speak from the stands, let us be clear, specific and precise and not deceive people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u360	Thank you. Another line? I won't. Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u361	Dear Mr. Chairman! I thank the replicators for giving me the opportunity to clarify this issue. Dear Mr. Mitev, in art. 6 is recorded that until the emergency situation is lifted, the non-cash consequences of the delay of a payment shall not apply. A non-cash consequence is the suspension of the service concerned, so that is precisely what this is about. That's what I'm talking about! But that's not so important. What is important is that we say that this is not about, as well is clear from the debate, the remission of obligations. We also had this debate in our Draft Decision on a moratorium on suspension. Why? The debtor who has the opportunity has no interest in taking advantage of this text and not paying, because in time his accounts will accumulate and his weight will become greater. This is about those who can't! They do not really have the opportunity to do so or cannot do so because they respect the recommendations of the Headquarters. That's what I'm talking about. And now is it possible to contribute to a dishonest citizen taking advantage? Sure! Therefore, we must be careful when extending the time limits of the emergency situation, because someone can always take advantage of such a situation where normal rights do not apply. Regarding Mrs. Alexandrova's line. Yes, we've increased the deadline by 20 days, but you've increased the state of emergency by 40 days the other day. So, yeah, let's be precise. [[Reply of the rapporteur Anna Alexandrova.]] Yes, the Minister can, and this is what we must say. And because it has also been mentioned in previous debates, all we do with this law is give a density of the state of emergency and it is a matter of political decision which people we will decide to protect because whoever we decide to protect will have some risks. We see that with each passing day you defend the interests of those who can be expected to have the greatest ability to defend themselves. We do not underestimate the importance of either companies or businesses or any employer, the question is of priority in such a situation who should be most protected by the Law. I didn't miss, Mrs. Alexandrova, to read all the opinions, I didn't refer to any of them. I say that the opinion of our party by the BSP is that there should be the broadest possible protection for the most vulnerable citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u362	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. We continue with the speeches. Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u363	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a proposal for editing in § 3, t. 2 in the new para. 2 to art. 4 after the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. And the second sentence is created: "A sentence first applies to proceedings under the relevant regulatory acts.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u364	Thank you. Procedure Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u365	Mr. Zarkov has the editorial proposal. [[Reply of National Representative Philip Popov.]] You don't have it, but Mr. Zarkov does.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u366	I'm out.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u367	We continue with the speeches. If there are no other speeches, we shall proceed with § 6. Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u368	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Paragraph 6 "Introduction text'. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... Article 3 Art. 6a. (1) Until the emergency situation has been lifted, state and local authorities, councils, committees, committees, including fund management or control bodies, accounts and other non-legal persons may hold meetings at a distance, ensuring direct and virtual participation in compliance with the requirements of quorum and personal voting, or taking decisions in absentia. Minutes shall be drawn up for the meeting held. Special laws and implementing acts shall apply to outstanding issues. (2) Until the emergency situation has been lifted, open court meetings, including the meetings of the Commission for Protection of Competition, may be held at a distance, ensuring the direct and virtual participation of the parties and participants in the process, respectively the proceedings. A record shall be drawn up for the meetings held which shall be published without delay and the record of the meeting shall be kept until the expiry of the time limit for correcting and supplementing the minutes. The Court of Justice shall inform the parties accordingly when the meeting is to take place at a distance. A proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 7: .................................................... Article 3 is Art. 6b. Until the exceptional situation of a decision of the Council of Ministers, the ministers, the governors of the district and the heads of other offices renting or using properties.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kolev and a group of MPs: A new paragraph is being created: §... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 15a: Art. 15a. (1) In the absence of products in the pharmacy, the master pharmacist may replace a prescribed medicinal product with another medicinal product with the same international non-proprietary name as the prescribed drug form and quantity in the dosage unit. The right of replacement shall not be eligible for medicinal products paid in full or in part from the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, as well as for the patient's refusal. (2) Alinea 1 shall apply until the emergency situation has been lifted. The Commission does not support the proposal. Paragraph 7 "Instruction text'. Proposal by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In § 7 in the creations art. 17a in para. 2 the words at the request of the National Staff of Officials shall be replaced by the following a decision of the Council of Ministers. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 17a: Art. 17a. (1) Military stocks may be released by a decision of the Council of Ministers or an authority designated by the State Agency for the realization of State Reserves and Wartime Stocks. The decision is taken on the basis of a reasoned request from a state authority by the President of the State Agency. On the basis of the decision, the Chair of the Agency shall issue a subsequent surrender order. (2) At the request of the State Authority, the President of the State Agency....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Once the emergency situation has been lifted, the assets shall be reimbursed to the Agency in a condition which allows subsequent use as intended, under conditions and by order of the Chair of the Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u369	Statements? First Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u370	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! Art. 6 6a, in the first sentence, I am making an editorial amendment: the expression "local authorities" and I think it is more correct to replace it with "local self-government authorities" if we follow the law on local self-government and local administration. Next, in § 7, Art. 6b. Here you have recorded: Until the emergency situation is lifted by decision of the Council of Ministers, regional governors, directors of other offices, renting or for use properties can adopt decisions and so on. First of all, it is good that you have distinguished the rents from the provision of use, because the rent is the holder of the lease, the holder, and in the other case a right of use has been established. However, what will happen because, in the case of an established property right, the user under the Law on Obligations and Contracts may obtain the benefits of the property............................................................................................ In this case, the person to whom the property is leased is not at all protected, but here it is about the same property, the same property. It's state or municipal property. That is, if the municipality has provided for the use of the person Hicks property for rent or use it, it can benefit from this decision of the municipal council, say, in terms of non-payment of rent or its reduction, but if he leases it and makes use of it because he is the acquirer of the transaction, the third person will not have those rights which will have the one to which it was given by the municipality or the state concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u371	Why should he rent it out?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u372	Because, dear Mrs. Stoyanova, there is a trade advantage in all this. Because he won't pay rent to the city, but whoever gave it, he'll be obliged to pay the rent, that's the problem. Next, here in the same paragraph you have recorded: the ones who have restricted or ceased their activities. Is it not specified which activity, what activity is it that you go to the gym, your work, your business? And here I think it should be written down and I also do it as an editorial amendment in § 7 "who have limited their work or business because of the measures and restrictions" and then goes to the end as it is written. Because only its activity, without specifying what activity, could be the activity of the natural and legal persons, of course. Next, we're going to §8. 17a. Here wrong and incorrect is recorded first in the Report that our proposal is supported in principle. Our proposal in para is not reflected at all. 2. Because we've proposed in para. 2 and should be as follows: In para. 2 you have excluded the Council of Ministers from the entire procedure at all. Take the responsibility of the Council of Ministers, toss it to the Director of the State Agency of State Reserves and Wartime Stocks. I ask, and so far I have not found an answer, I will hardly find an answer here in this room: why have you made this exception in para. Two? Why am I in al. 1 you have included as an obligation of the Council of Ministers to make decisions and only after a decision of the Council of Ministers to be able to be released from the State Reserve the relevant goods or items, and in para. 2 you made this exception? Why are you trying to hide the Council of Ministers from his responsibility? Because this will lead, and it is likely to lead, to blocking the State Reserve, because the President of the State Reserve will not want to take that responsibility. This is where you wrote, at the request of a state authority. Do you know how many state authorities there are in Bulgaria? Well, there's hundreds of them! Starting from the head of a regional police station and getting to the president, the National Assembly, the individual ministers, the district governor, the bosses, executive directors of executive agencies and so on. Hundreds of state authorities in Bulgaria are central and local. Each government body will be able to request the release of goods from the State Reserve. Yeah, well, those goods that are needed, they still have to be restored to the State Reserve, that's the law. Where will they be restored, who will be responsible for their recovery? Next, the other option, if the Reserve is not blocked, and at the request of each state body of the State Reserve, is granted goods and goods, is practically without regard to the overall picture, because the overall picture in the country about the need to release such goods must pass through the Council of Ministers. Every district manager or head of a regional police station cannot have an idea of what is happening across the country and ask for the appropriate release of such goods for its region or for its area. Therefore, there must be a decision of the Council of Ministers. Do not hide the Council of Ministers from its responsibility and transfer it to the head of the State Reserve, because that is what you do with para. Two, for some reason! Only for these two types of goods really.. medical devices and those that are for use, but they are also subject to old age, not to forget, and these goods, and the first are also subject to waste and then recovery in the State Reserve, from which companies? [[Replying from the O.P.: "Search! "]] Time, but since we're discussing a few paragraphs, it's five minutes per paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u373	That's why we're leaving a little more to say, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u374	Can you guarantee, figuratively speaking, that a government authority, say a local, well, can ask the State Reserve to grant such goods or services, and then some close-up firm to restore this thing to the State Reserve. Where the control goes, where the whole picture goes in control of the spending of state reserve items, there is no here in para. 2 and unknown why not. In para. 1, yes, you have accepted it and we have done this as a proposal: after a decision of the Council of Ministers to release all these items. Why are you hiding it, we have no idea, or at least we know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u375	Thank you, Mr. Popov. - What's the line? The line, Mr. Lazarov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u376	Dear Madam President, my colleague Popov did not make a proposal for an editorial amendment in respect of art. 6b.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u377	Under art. 17a didn't do it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u378	Ask the question: what would happen if it was provided for use and the user rented it out? Mr. Popov... [[National Representative Philip Popov is having a conversation.]] Mr. Popov? The line is for you, Mr. Popov. In this text, it is said that the relevant authorities - I do not list them - can release them. It is natural that they will judge the hypothesis that you are talking about, whether to release or not to release. In general, when providing is under the Law on Political Parties. Under other laws, usually when it is provided for use, it is said that it has no right to surrender or rehire. But if there is something like that somewhere, this does not automatically enter with the adoption of the text, but the relevant authority.... the Council of Ministers, ministers, regional governors can, that is, they will decide whether. Otherwise, we cannot regulate any other cases of non-compliance with contractual obligations arising from the lease of municipal, state property or the establishment of any right of use. Some municipalities even say: the use fee.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u379	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Is there another line? No. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u380	Thank you, Madam President. It is true, colleague Lazarov, that in most of the contracts there is a ban clause not to hand over the property concerned to use or rent out, but there may not be such a clause. And here we are talking about properties rented or used, they are already dedicated, which properties can be transferred to third parties. Third parties can be transferred and it is nice to record here that you are importers of this proposal that these properties in the state of emergency cannot be leased or used for third parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u381	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Mr. Vesselinoff, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u382	Madam President, honourable Members! First of all, I would like to thank all Members of the National Assembly for their support in the Legal Committee for adopting the text of art. 6b, which gives a clear sign to business and to citizens, that the state is ready to absorb its part of the negative from the crisis, respectively, will not require, and at least we give a procedure to reduce or at all simplify rent payments in cases where the use of the premises that they have rented is limited or stopped accordingly. It remains unsupported, unfortunately, part of my proposal relating to municipalities and rather to the powers of municipal councils to exempt the same categories of persons from paying taxes and fees, of course, at the discretion of the local community concerned and in the amount that is acceptable to the municipal budget. In my opinion, it is important that we do this for several reasons. Literally two hours ago, we had a serious conversation with a large part of the employers' organisations, for which a major problem is the household waste charge, which continues to be required, continues to be due by the owners of closed establishments, although they are closed, do not generate waste and should therefore have significantly reduced the cost of collecting and hauling, that is, the possible deprivation of part of the revenues in this plan related to domestic waste, would in no way deprive the municipalities of any vital means. The same is the case, for example, with the currently closed guest houses, which owe a patent tax on the basis that they have already entered the relevant year, and the text in the Law expressly prohibits during the current year taxes that have been established and their amount. In all fees could be amended and it is done by amending the regulation under art. 9 of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, which means once again a procedure that will take at least a month, a month and a half. In this regard, I appeal to the text of Article. 6b, which was created at the moment, to create a new para. 2, and the current text to be written as para. 1 with the following text: The municipal councils may exempt from the payment of individual local taxes and charges in whole or in part for the duration of the emergency situation natural and legal persons who have suspended or restricted their activities following measures to limit the pandemic. I'm handing this over as an editorial proposal, and I hope it will be supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u383	Okay, thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Will there be lines? I don't see any lines. Mr. Iankov had a statement, then Mr. Kolev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u384	As regards § 7 by importer, according to the Report it is § 8. Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposed amendment to the Emergency Measures and Activities Act regulates the powers of the National Operational Headquarters. The National Operations Headquarters was established by order of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov under the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers. 24, which reads: "Working groups for the preparation of draft acts or other expert proposals on specific issues of government competence, with the participation of representatives of different administrations, shall be established by decision of the Council of Ministers or by order of the Prime Minister. Visible from the text of art. 24 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Operations Headquarters is a working group and its functions are reduced to the preparation of expert proposals and in this sense cannot be a body to order. We saw a few days ago that the head of the NIGHT, the highly respected General Mutafchiyski, was led by the National Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria for readiness for influenza pandemic. There are clearly described measures, activities, phases of influenza pandemic, but since it is a working group of the Council of Ministers, it cannot issue any order. It's good that it's governed by the regulations. I recommend that he submit these rules to Prime Minister Boyko Borisov in order to be guided by the measures laid down in the legislation. It is not even a question, although in time we will ask whether the legal framework is respected, whether the actions, the activities of the Council of Ministers is in line with the designated powers and opportunities in the Law on Protection of Disasters, the Law on the Management and Operation of the System for Protection of National Security, the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Law on State Reserves and Wartime Stocks, but only in relation to the orders issued by the Minister of Health, become clear to us and the powers under the Law on Health apply. With the proposals made, if you are guided by this national plan of the Republic of Bulgaria for preparedness for influenza pandemics adopted since 2006, there is clearly written not only the power, but also how the entire activity is managed in such a complex situation as we are currently in. There is also a specific body of the National Pandemic Committee, where it is clearly written by the individual institutions and ministries, which is composed of President, Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Health, Deputy Ministers of all ministries and can attract other experts, and, if necessary, the work of the Committee may also be used for the expertise, in this case including General Mutafchiski. The members of the Committee shall express the views of the ministries and departments they represent. It is a guarantee that they are responsible and have made an assessment of the impact of any decision proposed by the Council of Ministers or of its decisions as you have made the proposal specifically for the State Reserve, you accept that the National Operations Headquarters is an authority. I pay attention to you again: this is a working group and nothing more. It is the responsibility of the Council of Ministers and the Head of the Council of Ministers of the President of the National Assembly, namely Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, and any such proposals for opportunities for blurring the responsibility cannot distinguish this responsibility from the Prime Minister's, firstly, for compliance with the laws and regulations and, secondly, for the specific actions and the causes of inconvenience and damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u385	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Speaking, Mr. Kolev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u386	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! At the very beginning of my speech, please pay attention to our proposal to create art. In the absence of products in the pharmacy, the master pharmacist may replace the prescribed medicinal product with another medicinal product bearing the same international non-proprietary name, prescribed drug form and quantity of dosage unit. The right of replacement is not permissible for medicinal products for payment.. full or partial from the budget of the NHIF as well as when the patient is refused.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 2: "It is applicable until the emergency situation has been lifted.' Colleagues on the right, colleagues from GERB, colleagues from the left, and all of you so far have made it clear that it is good to concentrate and focus our efforts now to give the most vulnerable groups, the most vulnerable part of society, what we can do for them in the time of the emergency. Now is the time in this part to do it. What is the treatment itself? The treatment is: a drug comes from its active substance and, as defined by a generic vehicle, all representatives of one molecule are equally effective, equally quality, equally safe with the original drug and can be interchangeable. The same amount and the same active substance have the same form. Imagine that a citizen goes to the pharmacy, is prescribed medicine, but not by formula active substance, not by molecule, but prescribed by name. However, the name is not in the pharmacy and in times of crisis this person is going to go around the pharmacies that is unacceptable. We suggest that products and medicines with the same formula, with the same active substance, can be replaced by the Master Pharmacist, and that they should not be out of control, but by controlled replacement. I'm reading what controlled substitution is:.... the substitution of medicinal products.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is, we offer in society in the most vulnerable group and those who use products is brave to say millions, but say hundreds of thousands of Bulgarians will take advantage of this opportunity immediately for the day. Why? Because in the European Union, fellow Members, we have a special generic program, which a generic program in general is not in Bulgaria. Together with two other countries in the European Union, we are the only country that has not made this generic programme the ones who are behind. This leads to hundreds of millions of payments precisely from the most vulnerable group of annual payments, unnecessary payment out of the pocket of those who have the most money and are most hurtful, and are unable to benefit from this generic policy that makes the European Union. What is the meaning of general policy? What's missing in our policy if someone says it's there? There is no generic prescription of drugs and no generic replacement at the pharmacy. In this regard, colleagues, in this case, I appeal for support by having several motives. The first: at the moment we have multiple complaints, we have already received reports of withdrawal from treatment of patients due to lack of funds. It's scary to give up treatment. We're talking about elderly people, we're talking about people who don't have a chance to go around, we're talking about people who are most vulnerable. In this regard, when we talk about prescribing medicines and when we talk about the correctness of their discharges, when they appear at a competition and auction, there hospitals appear with the molecule, we talk with the active substance, and when we go to the pharmacy and when we go to the pharmacist, the discharge is based on the trade name. Does he care about Grandpa Ivan when he goes to the pharmacy, whether he buys aspirin for a lev or buys from Mars for 10 levs?? In this case, there was an attack by some doctors who say they're replacing treatment. However, please note this: if allowed by generic replacement...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u387	Set your course for completion.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u388	Yeah, sure. Keep in mind that doctors, when talking about disagreements about the appropriate means, here we can talk about motivated refusal, but which should only rest on proven effectiveness and proven adverse drug reactions addressed to the Drug Executive Agency. Let them be addressed there to the IAL. I'm done. In this regard, so that we can follow leading economies such as Germany, where hospitals use nearly 80% generic products and we do not. In order to give exactly the most vulnerable part of society the opportunity to take advantage immediately and with less money to pay and receive the same healing effect, please support our proposal. In this regard, I hope, if we are going to talk about the most vulnerable parts of society, I believe that it is they who are the most vulnerable part of society that every day needs medicines and can benefit from this amendment. I stress that this applies only to the state of emergency!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u389	Thank you, dear Mr. Kolev. First line, Mr. Mihailov. Second Mr. Ivanov. Third line, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u390	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Kolev, as a person who is not a doctor, you probably do not know seriously the principles of action of doctors in Bulgaria in the provision of medicines and I must tell you that the stories about the molecule, about Grandpa Ivan and about the doctor who writes the most expensive medicines do not rest at all on the real activity of the people who in Bulgaria are responsible for drug policy towards each individual, the doctors who are authorized to do so. If, God forbid, and I hope that, apart from you and the people who supported you, no one in this House will support this proposal, this would create such saturation by decision of individuals or groups in society who are dealing with drug trade, of selling certain medicines that I would not like to comment on at all. This proposal is not based on any real basis, there are things behind it that I do not want to comment on here in this House, and no one, believe me, should support such a proposal. Mistaking concepts in medicine in the implementation of drug policy, of which you unfortunately do not understand, can lead to such disbalances as you can hardly imagine. And any pathetics that we want to help, you see, to the most vulnerable group leave the Bulgarian Medical Union, leave the Bulgarian doctors who are responsible enough to be able to conduct this drug policy at this difficult time. I don't want to name the other one! Maybe the coworkers will name it after me? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u391	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u392	Mrs. Chairman! My fellow Member, I will personally refrain from supporting your proposal, because as a doctor, when I write medicines, I do not care if the patient is socially weak. To me, he's a patient, and it doesn't matter what he is, so when he's discharged from therapy, the only hard word is the doctor. As regards the provision of medicinal products at the pharmacy, the pharmacist is always obliged to carry out the doctor's order. When the recipe is written, I will not go into Latin terminology, but it is indicated precisely: give the product that is written! Here any other motivations that are being made at the moment for being a crisis should be given first the notions of molecules and medicines, on several occasions we have seen that they were not correct. So I personally will not support this proposal, and I hope my parliamentary group also, because here we are violating basic principles of treatment. I think we should not compromise when we talk about treating our patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u393	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Mareshki, come in for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u394	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kolev, I'm beginning to find your group attractive. This is a really correct solution in favor of the Bulgarian people. We've been appealing for over 10 years for this thing to happen. Everything else is exactly the opposite of the protection of the interest of the Bulgarian people and talks about very bad lobbying. Very bad and very difficult lobbying, because we are talking about identical products produced by different companies. There is no way to explain to us that someone has to assess which of the two identical products of two highly reputable manufacturers is better than the other. If one of the two is not good, you well said it to them: at IAL to take his license, to explain that he is harmful to the Bulgarian people, but when the two products are absolutely identical, we should give the Bulgarian people right not because he is poorer, to be treated worse, or if he is richer, more expensive. I am not convinced that the more expensive products are of better quality, and when a more expensive product of identical quality is written, then you can now safely think about very heavy lobbying. The Bulgarian people are not an idiot, retard and so on and can judge when someone tries to sell him a particular drug, led solely by purely commercial interests. The only thing I disagree with you, Mr. Kolev, is that it must be a measure of urgency. This must be a permanent measure. This is a permanent measure in many developed democracies. This argument, when we start to bring it into substance, and not now so quickly, we need to subtract in which countries it is, why in others it is not so, what happens where it is and what happens where it is not. And to make the right decision, which is right not for companies, not for producers, not for someone else, but for the Bulgarian taxpayer, for yours and for our voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u395	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. A hole? Mr. Kolev, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u396	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Professor Mikhailov, thank you for the words you said. I'm an economist with health management and I think economically. I myself take advantage of all these opportunities to use medicines of the same formula, of the same quality, with the same chemical composition guaranteed to take what is most profitable. However, there is something that I would like to quote from you here: there is a recommendation from the World Bank for the introduction of this generic prescription and, pay attention to the fact that I stress the damage of the lack of such in Bulgaria! What's even more interesting is that the Ministry of Health paid for this report 300,000. lv. We've got it and it's not done. Thank you very much, Mr. Mareshki, for your support. I absolutely agree with your remark that it must be a permanent policy and, in this regard, I would like to stress that the World Bank also says that, and in the Ministry there is, and in the European Union, only Malta and Austria have not implemented it, and all the countries have applied it. Are we so far ahead in Bulgaria with the material that we think we are better than Germany, than France, than England, than anyone else? Are they so poor that they prefer cheap generic drugs and 80 to 20 to use genetics in their hospitals? Look, there's a lot we can talk about here. We shouldn't go into too many details. This genre policy must exist absolutely, but this is not the time to discuss it now. At the time of the emergency, we can apply it and make use of these vulnerable groups that most need the funds, those who are constantly in the pharmacy, those who have to go to all pharmacies to search for the relevant commercial name.....................................................................................in their recipes............................................................................................................................................... Once again, I call: support us! We will help exactly the most vulnerable group of needy in Bulgaria during the emergency situation, and then this debate will raise it again to discuss it because Bulgaria deserves it. It deserves to have this generic policy so that we can at least level with the countries of Western Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u397	Thank you, Mr. Kolev. Mr. Yordanov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u398	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kolev, we have fallen into the absurd situation for two economists to explain the identity between the original medicine and its genetics. You can't explain to doctors that the therapeutic response to treatment with the original medication is the same and sad with the one that is treated with the genetics that is simply not true. There's plenty of facts about that. Yes, genre is cheaper and I would accept that if you lobbied on the basis of economic motives, but not on clinical, therapeutic motives. You have forgotten to say that in these countries always the replacement of medicines with generics occurs after consultation with the treating physician, because therapy usually does not concern only one drug, it concerns a complex of medicines and the relationship between them is not always the same, it is not always uniform and can lead to severe consequences for the patient. You said that this problem would lead to economy, but what economy, if the patient goes to a pharmacy and the drug is gone, he has to buy someone else who offers him the pharmacist? He offers him the cheapest of the other drugs, not cheaper than the one he should have bought at the pharmacy. In fact, if the pharmacist doesn't want to have the cheap drug, he says: I don't have it, and offers the other one more expensive. Why shouldn't it work for those on the list reimbursed by the Cashier? Right there we are looking for the economic effect, because there the price of the drug is marginal, the pharmacist cannot offer at a higher price, and he would not want to offer at a lower price. I think that this proposal, which has been going on for several years in Bulgarian healthcare and in Bulgarian pharmacy, has no place to spend here, through this law. Colleagues from Western Europe tell us: treat with original medicines, not genetics. They are more suitable for economists, but not for sick people.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u399	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. - What's the line? The lines Mr. Mareshki and Mr. Kolev. Here you go, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u400	Madam President, honourable Members! Look, we're not just talking about replacing an original product with a generic product. We are also talking about the possibility of changing generic product to generic product. Don't divert the subject, first. Secondly, no one has yet proved that the original product after its license has expired and is being manufactured by a bunch of other factories, which in many cases are perhaps more reputable than the one that invented the original product, that it is of worse quality, or therefore the original is of better quality. To a very large extent, those who actually invented the original product, at some point lose interest in producing it. This argument is absolutely pointless. It is clear that it is in the interest of the Bulgarian citizen to have the right to choose between two identical products produced from different factories in different parts of the world. So don't shift the subject. I know what interests are. I know how this works. You know I'm the ancestor and I've been the only one in the pharmaceutical business since 1991. There hasn't been any other formation since 1991 and has survived so far. All the others who are still on the market have come out much later. Those from 1991, most of them are gone. Believe me, I know exactly what this is about. Everything else is a very severe lobbying to the detriment of Bulgarian citizens. If anyone still really thinks that a particular product does not deserve to be sold and it has no qualities, the colleague said at the IAL to stop its license, but if it has qualities... Or maybe the I.A.L. says who's got better qualities and who's not. And second, you say: cheaper or more expensive. We are not talking about whether to give the cheaper or more expensive. Sometimes the offering of the more expensive product with a more questionable quality, if it has a dubious quality at all, is something that happens. We don't say to give the cheaper one. This thing will happen sooner or later, because the Bulgarian people will not continue to tolerate these experiments on its back, but so far very few people have spoken about it. I therefore encourage fellow Members of the United patriots that they have grown to this thing, and I hope that more and more Members of the National Assembly will come to these conclusions and we will support these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u401	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Second line, Mr. Kolev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u402	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Associate Professor Yordanov, you understand exactly what we mean. You understand very well that this is extremely necessary and we are trying to propose it in a time of emergency to take advantage of this vulnerable group now. It'll happen, like Mr. Mareshki said, it will. There's no way that's not gonna happen. It's the World Bank's prescription. This has been done throughout Europe. I am not a specialist to speak as a doctor in this case, but I speak as an economist, as a person who, by observing how they have made their progeny policy in Europe, we, that we have not made it, deserve the slightest reproach. And how do we look the people in the eye if we can save them hundreds of millions a year? And we stand, we wait, we deal with small-time, we do nothing, we deal with nothing, we deal with nothing, but the most important things, where we can give people hundreds of millions a year, to stay on anyone in their pocket some lev, a day several million to stay in all Bulgarian citizens, because about that many are, this thing can happen now. Let's watch Europe, let's not look at who is an economist, who is a doctor, but what Europe is doing. Following her won't make a mistake. Following those who have achieved their best results and proven the best and financial, and healing results, and satisfaction of the patients in the healing process,.. everyone in these societies is more satisfied with our healing process. So let's make it so that we can unite. That's not gonna happen without a union. You all know this is essential. And if you offer it in a month or two, we'll support you. Why don't you support us in this emergency? I therefore call on all of you: please support this current crisis measure, we are talking about the time of the emergency. And after the state of emergency, to make a real propaganda policy, if you're going to copy 100% of the best practices in Europe so we don't make mistakes, or by learning from their mistakes that they've made so we don't have to let them in here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u403	Thank you, dear Mr. Kolev. Third line, Mrs. Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u404	Thank you, Madam President. I will not enter into the professional debate whether a pharmacist knows what a generic concept means or not, rather I would like to remind all colleagues here and all Bulgarian citizens an example. Colleagues, in 2018, on 6 July, if you remember, we urgently called the Director of the Executive Medicines Agency. Why? Because they had taken all the valsartan out of the market, from all the companies, not from a particular company. Why? Because all companies turned out to be buying the active ingredient from the same company in India, i.e. the active ingredient in 99% of the cases, regardless of which commercial producer is the same, from the same place. So from this tribune to convince us, with all due respect to the professionalism of all the doctors who spoke before me, to convince us that... I'm only going to talk about valsartan because it has already become a fact, and I'm not going to give you any other examples of huge price differences, convince me that it's different just because a different trader packed it, it's really absolutely insane. And how much can the Bulgarian state save, and the Bulgarian patient is a huge debate and I will be glad after the state of emergency to hold it again.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u405	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u406	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u407	Let's get this done, and I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u408	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Mareshki, dear Mr. Kolev, it seems we are on both sides of the same river. Mr. Mareshki said he was in the drug trade, Mr. Kolev convinces us that the World Bank had said so, but I am on the side of medicine and I would like the World Health Organization to tell me what to do because medicine has a major postulate: what is cheaper is not better for the patient. It's a rule, we can't run from it. As Mr. Mareshki said that we are not talking about generics, but about medicines at all, suddenly Mrs. Taskova says: no, why are you convincing us in generics, it's about generics. Yes, Mr. Mareshki, it's about generics, not other medicines, it's clear to everyone, but you can't convince the Bulgarian medical and medical public that your cause is correct. This is the opinion of the Bulgarian Medical Union and other professional organizations and please listen to it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u409	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. The way you're holding Mr. Chenchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u410	Thank you for your opportunity. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We should not continue here, Madam President, to close our eyes on what is happening in this House, namely that during a state of emergency we have brutal lobbying. And everyone sees what's happening in this room absolutely brutally and insolently during a state of emergency. Madam President, I'm sorry for the words, but I'm tired of some people talking here who, first of all, have to declare conflict of interest, and, second of all, talk about businesses, measure their pharmacies and retail chains, and whatnot. So I definitely took that line and because of one other thing...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u411	It's the way she's led.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u412	Yeah, in the way you're being led. ...because you allowed it here to be said by the MP something that outraged me, and don't allow it any more, namely that not only the government by its actions, but obviously also by its fairy tales before me here the speaker from the stand said that nothing and nothing led to the fact that half the House wanted to reject this proposal. If you do nothing and nothing, do it outside the National Assembly, you must have a next one on the list, however short it may be.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u413	To me, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u414	Madam President, stop this thing and this brutal lobbying during a state of emergency. And don't pretend that you don't know what this is about.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u415	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Mrs. Atanasova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u416	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, first of all, on Mr. Philip Popov's proposal. I failed in the form of a line to comment on art. 6a and its editorial amendment, namely the words "local authorities" to be replaced by "local self-government authorities." I do not think it is correct, because a body of local self-government, according to art. 138 of the Constitution and the Local Government Act is the municipal council and the executive body of the municipality is the mayor. If you mean, Mr. Popov, that local authorities are the territorial authorities of the executive, perhaps that is the more correct name and in this case I am also making a proposal for an editorial amendment. 6a to be replaced by the territorial authorities of the executive power.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u417	"Local authorities" to be replaced by the territorial authorities of the executive power? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mrs. Atanasova, one more time?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u418	I'd like to repeat it again because there's obviously a misunderstanding. The municipal council is a body of local self-government under the Constitution, and the executive body of the municipality under the Constitution is the mayor. The use of local authorities does not exist in the Constitution and in the Law on Local Self-government and Administration. There are words "Central and territorial authorities of the executive power" and "local self-government authorities" respectively "or "executive authority." Perhaps until the vote, we will make a more correct version, but I believe that the words "local authorities" should be dropped categorically from this version.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u419	Mr. Popov has proposed local self-government bodies. You are proposing the territorial authorities of the executive power.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u420	Yes, or it could be the local self-government authorities to add.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u421	This is an addition to Mr. Popov's editorial amendment. With one vote, we'll do it. Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u422	Secondly, on Mr. Georgi Kolev's proposal, which sparked a serious debate. I am not a doctor, and I am not a pharmacist, but I think it would be a big mistake if, at a time of emergency, we made such a change. First, because I believe that the proposal to create art. 15a is unclear. Its first sentence concerns: in the absence of products. What kind of products are these? Are they prescription products or are they other products? Because at the moment, Mr. Kolev, in any pharmacy, if you want to be sold a medicinal product without a prescription and it is not available, the pharmacist will offer you another one similar in relation to your symptoms or disease. I think we really owe our fellow citizens a reform on drug policy, but it must be very well thought out. It must be introduced after a very, very serious, thorough and, above all, professional debate. In any case, it is clear that the Bulgarian Medical Union has a negative opinion, and I think that they have expressed it quite correctly because it is the doctors who are responsible for the prescribed treatment. There's no way the Master Pharmacist can take responsibility if there are any harmful consequences for the patient's health. In addition, there is no one to follow subsequently whether the therapy that the Master Pharmacist has replaced has the same effect according to the health status of each patient that the doctor has observed along with his accompanying diseases and so on in, say, years back, chronic ones and so on. In addition, the release of medicines is a single act. The replacement of one medicine for another is a one-off act, but the control of the patient's treatment and, as I said, the negative consequences for his health is something completely different, and this is the only one and only a doctor could follow. I believe, as we said yesterday in the Committee on Legal Affairs, when this text was discussed, that the GERB Parliamentary Group would not support your proposal. In the opinion of all the Members who have made speeches so far, and also yesterday in the Legal Committee, I believe that you will receive such an answer from each parliamentary group. Finally, in § 8 with regard to the proposal which the Committee on Legal Affairs supported yesterday, I believe that this is the correct proposal. I do not think that we should have a long debate about what is the responsibility of the Council of Ministers, of the Prime Minister, of the Operational Headquarters, of the President of the State Reserve. There has been much talk about the existence of products and goods in the State Reserve in the last few weeks. I know that BSP colleagues are tempted to speak on this subject. Initially they commented that the state reserve is empty, there are no available quantities under the law. After hearing here the President of the State Reserve Mr. Peev, in a closed session, it was found that this is not the case, the necessary quantities are in the State Reserve and they are constantly provided if necessary. Mrs. Ninova, the fact that you replicate me from a place will allow you to do so in the form of a line, but I will answer you. In the Pernik crisis, including because I've checked, the state reserve has granted a million. tons of water. You can call your mayor Mr. Vladimirov and ask him. So quantities of goods that are defined in the law are available in the State Reserve. The state reserve is the last buffer of the state, if there is such a transport crisis, with the production, when everything stops, then the state reserve intervenes and then the products or goods that are available there are written. One more thing, the equipment, albeit in an irregular situation, and in the exercise of the halls of Arena Armeec and Hipodruma, and the hall in Varna, and the one in Stara Zagora, are also with funds from the State Reserve. The beds and lockers we've all seen are also from the State Reserve. With the help of the army are equipped these halls. I've personally asked Mr. Peev if they have all the equipment they need to work these halls, if necessary, God forbid, like field hospitals. He assured me that they had equipment, medicines, hygiene materials, masks and all the equipment needed to build such a field hospital. Thank you, Madam President, I graduated.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u423	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u424	Thank you, Madam President! Dear Mrs. Atanasova, with regard to your proposal, yes, I agree, the text with regard to local authorities must be revised. There are several options and we can discuss them until the end of the session before the vote. In respect of art. 15a, dear Mrs. Atanasova, you said that you are not a pharmacist, you are not a doctor, but you are a lawyer and you should know that this is about competence and responsibility. With this proposal, it is practically the pharmacist to seize the competence of the doctor, cardiologist, pulmologist, other types of specialties and prescribe medicines. That's what I'm talking about. But who will then be responsible for this medicine? I can give an example with regard to cardiology there are a number of beta blockers, but they have different effects, they are similar, but with regard to the clinical path of the patient concerned one is not necessary, others will help. Will the pharmacist be responsible if he prescribes another betbooker? Thirdly, Mrs. Atanasova, you neglected to say that this is about severe, depraved lobbying within the framework of the emergency situation. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15 there is no price, and it is in favor of pharmacies, because pharmacies are commercial companies and, of course, they will seek profit. Which medicinal product will they sell? The one that makes a profit, of course, not the one that's best for the patient. Who is best for the patient? This can only judge his doctor, not the pharmacist. Next, with regard to the State Reserve, God forbid there would be any gaps in the State Reserve, Mrs. Atanasova, so did you hide the Council of Ministers in para. Two? Is that why you didn't accept our offer and throw the head of the State Reserve at the Ambrazor? At the request of a state authority, you said there were hundreds of them in the country, to be able to release goods from the State Reserve, both usable and unusable goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u425	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov! Mr. Kolev, for the second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u426	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mrs. Atanasova! Yes, we know that the Medical Union has a negative opinion on this. Far from it, and I never said that the doctor had no leading role in the overall treatment of the patient. But, on the other hand, to lower the role of the Master Pharmacist, who has studied all the time and knows much more about medical forms than all others and to turn him into a simple shopkeeper or to turn him into a regular drug distributor is not fair! So here we are not talking about opposing one another with the other. This can't be happening. The leading role of doctors nobody seizes it, but the very fact about the significant knowledge of Master Pharmacists, they should also be used as much as possible. In the West, they're consultants, and here we can do it like this. In this regard, all this is useful and I am convinced that both on the left and on the right that we all want to help our most vulnerable groups. I'm sure of it. So let's not get carried away. Let's make this happen. There is no point in punctuality, in opposition to the Doctor's Union, pharmacists and doctors is not the goal. We never said anyone had to take over the role of the doctor. There's no such thing, don't put words in our mouths that we haven't said. Please, let's concentrate on doing something for these vulnerable groups. If we can't, let's focus on the other points, but we won't forget this point and we'll discuss it as soon as the state of emergency is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u427	Thank you, dear Mr. Kolev! Mr. Mareshki, come in for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u428	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mrs. Atanasova! I have to mention a few things. Firstly, at the moment in public hospitals, tenders are being made by generic name in order to be able to save. Most doctors here have been hospital directors, and they know very well that's how the auctions are conducted. Secondly, we are not talking about someone ordering treatment, we are talking about changing two types of products. If anyone can't figure out if I'm gonna talk to that microphone, [[the MP shows one microphone in front of him]] or on this microphone. [[the MP shows the other microphone]] Everyone sees that they're the same, we're talking about identical products. The third is about responsibility. Unfortunately, when a doctor makes a mistake and prescribes a treatment that is not correct, the pharmacist, if not corrected, bears responsibility for those who do not know. If the pharmacist releases exactly the treatment the doctor prescribes and he makes a mistake and has a fatality, the pharmacist is responsible. So don't humiliate the Master Pharmacist who is studying medicine with the doctor and dentist, to lower him to an ordinary salesman. It is the last instance to check whether the doctor has made a mistake. He can very well know whether the same product is the same, and the colleague very well told you that even packaged in different factories around the world the substance that is present in the capsule and tablet is the same, coming from the same place. Ugly lobbying for certain medications really is really burning up right now, and I want to tell you that ugly lobbying is not from traders. Dealers' interest is to sell expensive, isn't it? One of you said it. Well, yes, if I or one of my colleagues wanted to sell, that would be ugly lobbying, but when we insist on being able to write the cheaper for patients, it is really ugly lobbying in the interests of Bulgarian citizens. Everything else is lobbying in the interests of traders.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u429	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Mrs. Atanasova, come on in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u430	Thank you, Madam President. I'm starting backwards in line with the lines. Mr. Mareshki, I also believe that Bulgaria should be oriented towards progeny policy and this is not only that I believe it, but it is written in the Program for Government Management. But I said that this should happen after an expert and thorough, professional debate involving everyone not under the Emergency Act and not this month or two of a pandemic. Besides, Mr. Mareshki, I would very much like to correct you, because in the wording of art. 15a, which the coworkers have imported, has no word for price. There's no word for a lower price! On the contrary, they propose: the right of replacement is not admissible for medicinal products to be paid in whole or in part from the NHIF budget, as well as for patient withdrawal. Yes, in the countries that we have commented that they have an active generic policy, the price is always determining if it is lower. You know that we refer to the prices. This statement is not in the direction of commenting on the drug policy of the Republic of Bulgaria. I mean, I agree with my colleagues that such a debate should be held, but this is not the time. Regarding Mr. Popov's line on the State Reserve. Mr. Popov, in my memory, Mr. Peev proposed to each and every one of us in terms of information and access to classified information to visit the state reserve warehouses and get acquainted with the available quantities. I would like, if you have the opportunity in any order, in the form of a statement or procedure, to answer whether someone from the BSP parliamentary group and personally you, Mr Popov, may also, as a personal explanation, have visited some of the warehouses of the State Reserve and whether you have found that there are not available in the State Reserve and Wartime Stocks Act products and goods that are required to be available in the State Reserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u431	Thank you, dear Mrs. Atanasova. First, in the manner of holding Mr. Ivanov. You, Mr. Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u432	Personally.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u433	Madam President, honourable Members! A moment ago, my colleague, Dr. Chenchev, approached you. I'll make a more precise formulation. By the rules that we all have, I suggest that everyone standing on this stand should state whether there is a conflict of interest. We have clearly and accurately recorded it so that we can know and that all these listeners and viewers who are watching can be well guided by who for what and in what way protects a particular bill. Please be strict and follow the Rules, as at some point there was a council of economic interests and a clash of interests for generics and original preparations. If we have to give lectures, I think that here and Professor Mihailov, and I can give a lecture when an original preparation becomes a generick, after how many years, what is the formula and respectively how it is given. So, please, strictly follow the rules. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u434	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Popov, it was a dud, and she couldn't help but turn to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u435	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u436	By the way, okay. Because you made a line and Mrs. Atanasova turned to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u437	Thank you, Madam President. It's the way it's supposed to be. It's nice to explain to colleague Atanasova that it's not my job to go inspect the state reserve warehouses. There's an organ and a procedure for that. That is why I said: why do you deprive the Council of this responsibility with your proposals? With regard to the information provided in the Secret Office. You can go and see if I personally signed off on this information. This is your right as MP. I've gone and I've come to know this information.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u438	What's that got to do with me, Mr. Popov?!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u439	It's not my place to go to the warehouses to do inspections. Perhaps you, as a former minister, should know this and those powers of the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u440	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Mr. Baychev, come in for a statement. Then Mr. Taskov and Mrs. Asenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u441	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will begin by declaring that I have no conflict of interest on this subject, except, perhaps, that I have purely professional interest. Because we are being offered a text that is vaguely motivated, and now in the process of the debate they are trying to point out motives, though, I would say, and noble, in the form that it was saving people the tour of pharmacies. And, you see, in order not to spread the disease and such things, to accept this text, which, I admit, I do not accept, because by going to the pharmacy, the pharmacist, after missing this medicine, could advise the sick person to return to his doctor, as is appropriate, and he will write him another medicine. I don't take her words for nothing and for nothing, because I see that while some people do nothing and talk nothing, they suddenly insert a lobbying text that unites everyone in the name of not allowing traders to enter the health temple. Because, as we speak, there shouldn't be any health trade. Representatives of the Bulgarian Medical Union attended the Commission. Imagine, they were also present by the Union of Pharmacy! Both the Medical Association and the pharmacists said the proposed amendment was not appropriate and that they were against it. I mean, the people who are directly concerned, maybe without the people present, they're against it. The same applies to the Bulgarian Association of Generators, which oppose the proposed Bill. Since we are often debated and given Europe as an example, we must also say something else. Yes, such a replacement is allowed there, but only with a cheaper drug than what is so prescribed, which is essential. That is why I would like to tell you, even if I asked the importer to reconsider his proposal and withdraw it, not to put the Bulgarian Parliament and the Bulgarian people to the test. Because, colleagues, this is a difficult time, and we shouldn't mess with people's fears. The other, which I also turn around and use the moment again, if someone comes out to make a reply, as I said, that I lack a conflict of interest, that they state whether or not there is a conflict of interest, because some of the speakers have a direct, personal, professional and financial interest in this to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u442	Thank you, dear Mr. Baichev. Are there any lines? The line is Mr. Mareshki and Mr. Kolev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u443	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Baychev, unlike some of you, I will declare that I have absolutely no conflict of interest in terms of financial, economic or any other part, because for 30 years now in my business it is the same as when a person enters the pharmacy, whether he will buy a medicine produced by one producer or by another. I don't care! It's the right of the doctor and patient to choose. I'm using this case, first of all, I'm not sure mostly about other colleagues of your medical staff who were in this industry, whether they were in conflict of interest and were writing medicines thanks to commissions they received from companies, but that's on their conscience. This is where I'd like to fall for what you said. Now the crisis will pass and we will indeed, together with our colleagues, I suppose, be the initiators of a particular change in this direction, which can be replaced by cheaper. I hope then that you will not run away, not hide and support this change that can change in the pharmacy a generic product with exactly the same content as it is throughout Europe, to change with a cheaper one. I hope you don't run away from what you just said. I'll remind you of it all my life! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u444	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Mr. Kolev, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u445	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Baychev, we never said that in this case we are talking about replacing a more expensive product. We have said it several times, and we stress it, the point of generic policy is to save people money. The point of generic policy is to buy the cheapest product with the same molecule, with the same ingredient. There's never been anything else spoken in any form! If he's not in the pharmacy, don't let the guy get away. Let's assume the following hypothesis: we have a patient in a small community, the doctor is there, he goes to him. The doctor writes him what he needs to know. He goes to the district town because they don't have a pharmacy, but there's a gap with it or the drug is gone, or another cheaper product is offered to him. He returns again to his personal physician because there is no way to get the communication... does not work with radio or television connection. We still don't have e-health to make this happen, and then there's a trip, and then there's a patient outing in times of crisis. Absolutely unacceptable! We suggest that something purely human at the time of the emergency to benefit those people who are away from the pharmacy, away from their personal physician, at a serious distance, walking around, not finding the product in this pharmacy, going to another. So the hypothesis, I guess you figured it out. I speak it very humanly. Once again, I stress the meaning of generic policy is cheaper, cheaper, cheaper for the benefit of the patient and for the benefit of hospitals, as it is in Germany, for the benefit of everyone! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u446	Thank you, dear Mr. Kolev. Third line? I can't see, guys. Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u447	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In the order of the dots. Mr. Mareshki, you're right there should be such a debate about pro-generational policy. Even if you remind me of that, I will not participate directly and actively in the debate because I do not feel professionally prepared. It is followed by professionals to lead this debate and to unite. I would really like the various political forces to unite around a bill that can be implemented, that can be implemented and that can be for the benefit of all people. Thus, the proposed Bill at the time, in particular text, is not such and gives rise to disagreements. Here I switch to Mr. Kolev Yes, you are probably right that it was the desire to offer cheaper, but why is it not written, as in other countries in Western Europe, that only the cheaper one can be offered, that is one. Secondly, I'm from a small town myself and we often have to go on health issues at the district center. Believe me, my personal doctor, as far as I can tell from other people, always responds and answers his phone. This relationship is easy and possible at this stage. Let's just keep it that way. Let's not rush into the future so we don't actually find ourselves taking a step back in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u448	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. We'll continue with Mr. Taskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u449	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As a conflict of interest, my conflict is with what Mr. Kolev proposed as a doctor because I am a doctor of human medicine. The debate is important and I agree with Mr. Mareshki, but I don't think it's the right time for it to work during a state of emergency. After all, in the field of healthcare, in the process of treating a patient there is one basic rule. The doctor is writing a prescription, he carries his last name and hence his responsibility for this recipe. The recipe, I would like to stress, does not have a wishful thinking towards colleagues at the pharmacy, it has a binding character. The main rule in our profession, and I hope this will be so. What is currently available, whether this is not in the interest of the large retail chains of pharmacies to fill with generics at the expense of small single pharmacies, I leave it to you to judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u450	Thank you, Mr. Taskov. Are there any lines? The line, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u451	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Taskov, the fact that so many people talk so passionately means that this topic is very important. However, I urge once again every person who comes out here to say if there is a conflict of interest. See, I repeat, it doesn't matter to me when the guy comes in, whether he's gonna take one medicine, whether he's gonna take a diaper or something. Believe me, for 30 years, your turnover has been going very well. I am only interested in protecting the interest of Bulgarian citizens. But I call on any doctor who comes out here to say if he did public procurement when he was in a position that gave him the right to make such orders, and then acted as a trader. Even in his own office, whether he acted as a merchant or as a doctor when he was writing a particular medicine. It is most likely that the fact that editorialally maybe this proposal has not been made properly. From what I understand, I'm trying to understand, the idea at this point is not to replace with the cheaper one for these two or three months when the emergency situation is, and if one thing is not there right now, the person doesn't have to go back to the doctor to write another and replace it generically with the molecule. That was probably the subject. The epidemic will pass. We need to get back to the main issue of this policy. Last, specifically to Mr. Taskov's statement. It's not true that writing is an order. On the contrary, when the pharmacist sees a mistake in what the doctor says, he is absolutely obliged not to do it! You said it was an order. What was written must be executed. No, on the contrary, he must necessarily fail to comply with it, because he is the last person responsible if an accident occurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u452	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Is there another line? A hole? I won't. Mrs. Asenova won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u453	Dear Mr. Hristov, dear colleagues! Dear Minister Kirilov is not in the hall, but he was just asking what BSP was proposing. I therefore direct your attention to BSP's proposals, namely the creation of § 7a.................................................................................................... [[Noise in the hall. Members of the National Assembly shall speak in groups.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u454	Excuse me, Mrs. Niva, just a moment of silence. I see well shaped backs facing the stands. A little more silence, please. Continue, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u455	I didn't report §7a.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u456	Excuse me, fellow Members, I'm about to take the floor on this paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u457	Are there any other speeches? Mr. Yachev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u458	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! After so many doctors, I'll speak as a user. Why did we propose this text for a change in the Law, which is related to the conduct of progeny treatment and which caused such a broad debate not only today in plenary yesterday and in the Commission, but for two weeks in Bulgarian society? Not only because the pro-generic treatment is recorded as measure 4.5.2. of the General Management Program signed between GERB and "United Patriarchs", which colleagues from GERB should know very well and know that this debate on pro-generational treatment has already been held three years ago, and at the level of political leadership to be included in the Programme. That's what I'm saying. We proposed it not only because the propaganda policy is also part of the National Health Strategy 2014-2020 adopted by the same National Assembly. This debate has already happened once in plenary. Fellow medics, doctors who still take part in the debate today should have expressed these considerations when the National Health Strategy was adopted. We also suggested it because it is common practice in other countries because it leads to the saving of significant public resources, and in the conditions of the pandemic, in which we live and work today, would help limit the contacts of patients with return visits to medical professionals, in a pharmacy, searching for the prescribed medical product as they are, by the way, and the instructions of the National Operational Headquarters. There are several fears that have been planted for two weeks since we talked about this amendment in emergency measures. First of all, this is the fear that it is possible generic replacement to cause conflict on the doctor's axis. Yes, of course, it is possible, but only if the doctor and patient do not understand the essence of generic replacement. The generic replacement is not arbitrary, at the request of the Master Pharmacist, but only within the framework of an international non-proprietary name, the same drug, and only upon the consent of the patient. In practice, the patient chooses between equivalent medicines and the medicinal substance itself, including the content of the medicinal substance per unit dose and the formulation, are selected and prescribed by his doctor. Modern regulatory practice is based on the understanding that generic products are equivalent to the original ones. In this sense, generic replacement is not a replacement of the will of the treating physician, but a fulfillment of his will at the best possible price on the proposal of the Master Pharmacist and upon the consent of the patient who ultimately pays the price. One of the issues at issue, one of the fears is that the doctor is the one responsible for treating the patient, and can not have one component, such as medicine, be entrusted to another in the case of the Master Pharmacist. There is no doubt that the responsibility for the adequacy of the particular treatment is the doctor's. However, generic replacement does not prejudice or compromise medical liability in any way. The doctor is the expert who makes diagnostics and cures, and the pharmacists are the experts on drugs. The two professions complement each other and should work in sync to ensure the best treatment for the patient. With the generic replacement, medication is not entrusted to the pharmacist or patient and the responsibility of the doctor is not replaced. The generic exchange entrusts only the right to a proposal and professional opinion by drug professionals who, by the way, have already been told by colleagues, have been studying medicine for 5 and a half years! Here is also applied the right of the patient to choose one among several equivalent products. When choosing one among several equivalent products, there is no replacement of treatment and no replacement of responsibility. The doctor chooses the most suitable medicinal substance, but the state, if it pays, or the patient as payers, has the right to choose which of the equivalent products they will pay for. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] As time is running out, fellow Members, in conclusion, to answer honestly one question: what is really the main fear of introducing generic substitution? The main fear, to be honest, of the introduction of generic replacement is the fear of losing control and position on the market, as after its introduction the drug market will inevitably be redeployed. Some products will become preferred to others because they will now be able to choose the patient on a proposal from the pharmacist. But this, honourable Members, is a financial motive. [[the President signals that time has run out]] which have nothing to do with values such as patient care and providing quality, safe and effective medicinal products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u459	Thank you, Mr. Yachev. Are there any lines? Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u460	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues with masks, no masks, no coronavirus or no coronavirus, no generics or no generics! This line is to you, colleague Yachev, because you said true-untrue things, but you missed the most important thing that the big debate is actually part of the biggest debate, namely the Mafia with drugs. That's the big mob. And it turns out that a large part of the left and part of the colleagues from GERB are defending this mafia. We're talking millions, if not billions. And why are you pretending to be crazy, and here you're throwing crazy claims...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u461	Mr. Kasabov, please turn around...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u462	It's a metaphor. Let's put it this way. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u463	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u464	Okay, you're pretending to be misunderstood, and at some point you're playing with people's destiny, people's money, people's pockets. On the left, they said it was pathetic. Of course there are pathetics, given that this money goes into the pockets of the pharmaceutical mafia and part of the white mafia. Here stood doctors who had somehow licked entire schemes! I'm not saying names. [[Radio, lines.]] Remember, I'm an investigative journalist and I'm aware of what this is about. I ask you very much, when you talk, at least have a little conscience and shyness, because we suggest that what is very simple is part of the money to be saved in the form of other medicines.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u465	Finish, please, your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u466	That's what we're talking about. Everything else is a scam. Everything else is dust and lies. So a little more shy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u467	Thank you, dear Mr. Kasabov. Is there another line? A hole? But the doppelganger's missing. Mrs. Alexandrova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u468	I am proposing to create a new § 8 and to renumber the other paragraphs: ................................................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 15a: Art. 15a. Until the emergency situation is lifted, the National Health Insurance Fund and the Bulgarian Medical Union, respectively, the Bulgarian Dental Union may sign an annex to the relevant National Framework Treaty, which contains a pay for work under adverse conditions during the declared emergency situation of medical aid contractors, respectively dental aid, payment terms and arrangements and methodology for determining the amount of the amounts.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u469	Thank you. I have the lyrics to § 8. Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u470	Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev and Boris Yachev: A new Paragraph is being §... A new article shall be created. 19a: Art. 19a. At the time of the emergency, a doctor (s) with and without speciality may be given the order of the Minister of Health; specialists with higher education, biologists, biochemists, medical technicians, carry out immunochromatographic screening tests. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: screated § 7a: 7a. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 22? 25: Art. 22. The persons employed on 13 March 2020 on a private sector employment contract who, as a result of the restrictive measures, are on unpaid leave, are granted monthly subsidies in the amount of the minimum wage for the country and the insurance contributions due through the National Insurance Institute. Art. 23. Self-employed persons on 13 March 2020 who, as a result of the restrictive measures, cannot carry out the activities for which they are self-insured, are granted monthly subsidies in the amount of minimum wage for the country and the social contributions due through the National Insurance Institute. Art. 24. Persons whose commercial activity has been suspended as a result of the anti-epidemic measures introduced shall not owe local taxes on household waste and on the use of pavements, squares and street sails. Art. 25. Retailers who scrap food are exempt from the refund of VAT of up to 2000 BGN. monthly for a commercial establishment. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 9: ..................................................... Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 22, 23, 24 and 25: Art. 22. (1) Article 249, para. 9, 10 and 11 of the Ministry of Interior Act shall not apply where the subject of the donation is personal protective equipment, disinfectants, alcohol and other means intended to prevent the spread of the contagious disease. (2) The contracts for donations under para. 1 shall be concluded by the heads of the structures referred to in Article 1. 37 of the Act on the Ministry of Interior or persons authorised by them. Art. 23. Until the emergency situation has been lifted, in the course of a further investigation procedure, the time limit under art. 52, para. 2 of the Classified Information Protection Act may be extended for up to 30 days and, in such cases, the permissions to access classified information shall remain valid until the procedure is completed. Art. 24. (1) The time limits referred to in art. 102, para. Art. 1 and 2, Art. No. 104, para. Art. 2 and 4, Art. 106, para. 4 and 5, and § 6, para. 1 and 2 of the transitional and final provisions of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering cease until the emergency situation is lifted. (2) The persons referred to in art. 4 t. 28 of the Law on measures against money laundering which do not fall into another category of debtors under art. 4 of the same law for which the obligation to draw up a risk assessment under art. 98, para. 4 of the same law, accept the rules of art. 101 of the same law within four months of the cancellation of the emergency situation. Art. 25. A tourist operator who has to recover a paid amount from a traveler when it has been cancelled due to the declared emergency may propose to the traveling voucher for the paid amount. If the traveller does not accept the voucher and in the absence of another travel package agreement between the tour operator and the traveler, the tour operator shall recover no later than one month from the date of the cancellation of the emergency situation all payments received from the traveler or on his behalf.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u471	Can we stop?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u472	Can I also report § 8, because they're connected?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u473	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u474	Under § 8 there is a proposal from the National Representative Christian Mitev: A new § is being created...: §... Paragraph 4 shall make the following amendments: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3, In the undertaking, part of it or for individual workers or employees, the employer may establish for the entire period of the declared state of emergency or part-time part-time for full-time workers. 2. Point 5 concerning art. 267a is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 267a: Compensation in case of cessation of work in a declared state of emergency Art. 267a. (1) For the period of suspension of work in the cases referred to in art.120c, as well as for the establishment of part-time by the employer under art. 138a, para. 2 of the Labour Code, the worker or the employee shall be entitled to monetary compensation under § 6 of the transitional and final provisions of the Law on Measures and Actions during the emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020. The period of suspension of work shall be respected for service. (2) When entering part-time by the employer under art. 138, para. 2 of the Labour Code, the amount of the cash compensation shall be determined in proportion to the time outstanding. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Christian Mitev: A new § is being created...: §... In § 5, a new item is created. 3: ...... 3..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the It's six. through which the person received compensation under art. 267a of the Labour Code. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Christian Mitev: A new § is being created...: §... Paragraph 6 is amended as follows: ........................................................... (1) During the operation of this law, but for a period of not more than three months, the National Insurance Institute shall transfer monetary compensation of 60 per cent of the amount of the insurance income for the month of January 2020 to persons insured under art. 4, para. 1, t. 1 of the Social Insurance Code by insurers meeting criteria laid down by an act of the Council of Ministers. The funds shall be transferred by bank transfer to the insured persons concerned within five working days on the basis of written information provided by the Employment Agency. (2) The funds translated according to the order of para. 1 are at the expense of the fund.. Unemployment............................................................................................................................................................................... (3) The insurers under para. 1 submit to the Employment Agency information on persons falling under the regime under art. 120c or 267a under the terms and conditions laid down in an act of the Council of Ministers. Applications shall be dealt with in accordance with the order in which they are received. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Yordan Tsonev in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Kolev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Svetlana Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Hristian Mitev under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 8: 1. A new t. is created. 1: "1." Paragraph 41 is repealed. 2. T. 1 and 2 become ct, respectively. Two and three. 3. A t is created. 4. "4." Paragraph 51 is repealed. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Alexander Ivanov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... The transitional and final provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In § 6, para. 1 sentence first after the words..2020......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. Paragraph 35 is amended as follows: .............................................................................. (1) For the period from 13 March 2020 until the cancellation of the state subsidy under the Law on Political Parties is not due. The annual amount of the State subsidy for 2020 shall be calculated according to art. 27, para. 2 of the Law on Political Parties, and for the number of days from 13 March 2020 until the cancellation of the emergency situation including state subsidy is not charged and due. (2) In the order of art. 109, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act The Council of Ministers may approve additional costs/transfers at the expense of the economy of funds under para. 1 only for activities related to preventing the spread of the contagious disease, the treatment of the infected or the limitation of the consequences of the disease. (3) In 2020 the first part of the state subsidy under art. 25 of the Law on Political Parties is granted until 30 June 2020 3. In § 45, t. 1 the words "proposal 2" shall be deleted. 4. In § 49, the text so far became para. 1 and the creation of para. 2: The terms of the Financial Instruments Markets Act, the Public Offering of Securities Act, the Act on the Activities of collective investment schemes and other collective investment undertakings, the Special Investment Purpose Companies Act, the Financial Supervision Commission Act, the Insurance Code and Part Two of the Social Security Code shall not change except in the cases of § 8 and § 44 5. Paragraph 49a, 49b and 49c are inserted: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In 2020, the declarations referred to in Article 1 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the Official Journal of the European Union. 38, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property and under art. 175c, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on the Judiciary shall be submitted within one month of the cancellation of the emergency situation. § 49b. (1) For the time of emergency the employment contracts under art. 114a, para. 1 of the Labour Code for short-term seasonal agricultural work may be carried out for more than one day and this time shall not be recognised as service. (2) The labor contract under para. 1 may also be concluded by registered tobacco producers for processing plantations and harvesting tobacco. (3) The labor contract under para. 1 has normal working hours for the day up to 8 hours, and the parties may negotiate work for 4 or 6 hours. (4) At the conclusion and termination of the employment contract under para. Article 1 shall not apply. 62, para. Art. 3 and 4, Art. 127, para. 1, t. Art. 4 and art. 128a, para. 3 of the Labour Code. (5) The labor contract under para. 1 contains details of the parties, place of employment, place of employment, place of employment, amount of remuneration, days and months of performance of the work, duration of working time, start and end of working day and data entered by the labour inspection which recorded the relevant model. (6) The labor contract under para. 1 shall be drawn up on a model established by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy and published on the website of the Executive Agency. (7) The employer shall be a registered farmer under the Rules of the Agricultural Assistance Act or registered tobacco producer under the Tobacco, Tobacco and Related Products Act may receive registered models of the employment contracts under para. 1. (8) The models of the employment contracts under para. 7 can be obtained in the respective Directorate for Labour Inspection by the registered farmer or tobacco producer either personally or electronically. (9) The wage shall be paid on the day of expiry of the contract of employment under para. 1 against a receipt, an integral part thereof. When the term of the employment contract under para. 1 shall be longer than one month, the remuneration shall be paid each month, but no later than the 5th of the month following the month in which the work is done. (10) Social and health insurance contributions for the persons referred to in art. 114a, para. 1 of the Labour Code shall be imported by the insurers who have entered into a contract under para. 1 and 2, within the time limits laid down in Article 2. 7, para. 1 of the Code of Social Security and under art. 40, para. 1 of the Health Insurance Act. § 49c. The term referred to in paragraph 1 shall not exceed the period referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 36, para. 4 of the Labour Code shall cease until the emergency situation has been lifted. Organisations of employees and employers recognised as representative at national level by decision of the Council of Ministers until the entry into force of this law shall retain their representativeness until the procedure under Article is completed. 36 of the Labour Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u475	Thank you. Mrs. Alexandrova, may I consult you on the numbering? Come to me. [[Definitions.]] Colleagues, you have a say in this. Mr. Yordanov, come in. I'm gonna ask, because there are a lot of paragraphs, tell me which paragraph you're talking about.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u476	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am pleased that the importers of the new § 15a, I understand that there is a problem with numbering, but you have read it as 15a, you have accepted our proposal, for which we have pleaded when we adopted the Law on Measures and Actions for Emergency. Moreover, colleagues from the Medical Union and the Bulgarian dental union have signed the corresponding anexes at noon and are waiting for this action to be made legal. This problem has already been solved. Thus, those working with the Cashier receive a partial retribution for the work they are doing. However, this is not the case with the 20% of Bulgarian medics mainly in outpatient care, which does not work with the National Health Insurance Fund. For them, we will obviously have to look for an option along the way of small and medium-sized enterprises, but this is something we are going to do today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u477	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Are there lines? Statements? Mrs. Nieva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u478	Honourable Members, the time has come to draw your attention to the proposals of the BSP - Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs - to create a new § 7a, with new texts under art. 22, 23, 24 and 25, as the groups of citizens listed in these texts remain outside the scope of your view. These are a group of people who are put in an objective inability to work and carry out their activities because we are in a state of emergency and I would like to point out that these citizens are regular taxpayers. They are currently in a risk group because, once again, they cannot carry out their activities, but they have costs in relation to them, such as rents and other ones. The persons referred to in Article 2 (1) (a) and (b) of this Regulation shall be included in the list of persons referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article and shall be included in the list set out in Annex I to this Regulation. 22 are employed under a contract of employment until 13 March this year in the private business; the persons listed in art. 23 are self-insuring persons for whom we propose to be subsidised monthly with the minimum wage and with the contributions due at the National Insurance Institute. The other category are traders who cannot work s to be exempt from payment of domestic waste tax, as well as from the payment of the use of sidewalks, squares and other such. And the last category, which we refer to, are also traders who scrap food products and have to return VAT, to be exempt from the VAT refund within 2000 BGN. monthly. I believe that measures are necessary, and when we talk about supporting business, let us support both small businesses and those working in it and self-insuring individuals who are the backbone of the state.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u479	Mrs. Niva's lines? Any other speeches? Mr. Baychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u480	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will speak and defend our proposal only by declaring in advance that I have a conflict of interest, as I have not interrupted my legal practice and am self-serving. The whole of Europe is talking, colleagues, about social equality, and I am not only talking about BSP, but about the whole of Europe, about the whole of the European Union. But strangely, in our legislation, we have missed an entire group in the morning, Minister Goranov said that the self-insuring in Bulgaria are somewhere around 800,000 people and many colleagues have attacked lawyers, architects, musicians, artists, people of art, undeserved at that. I dare say that out of those 800 thousand, all those I've listed are a small part. In their majority, these are people of work who earn their living working with children or with other people, or for some other reason at the moment, and they feel inconvenient about making their living. I say this example because I have talked to a swimming coach; with a coach who has a football school; with a hairdresser; with a teacher who teaches mathematics lessons at the classes; he has no employment contract; he only deals with private lessons in mathematics. It is also right to think about this part of people and to have the same approach in law-making, to give these people the opportunity to participate in the process of distribution of goods, because the principle of solidarity does not include only solidarity in assuming the negatives. I think solidarity should also be in asset distribution, all the more so that we will also avoid discrimination between the types of workers. In view of this, I would like to specifically tell you to support art. 23, all the more so that all these people are not ordinary workers, but rather slaves to their business that they have started, and with extreme efforts they maintain at this difficult time. The next member, which I also ask you to support, is for those whose commercial activity has been stopped as a result of the anti-epidemic measures introduced, not to owe local fees for household waste and for the use of sidewalks, squares and street sails. Colleagues, part of the municipal council in the country has already been held. Some of the municipal council, including I can say about Burgas, decided that they should cancel the payment of sidewalk law, including on squares and on street sails to help these traders. However, I think that this should not only be left to the municipal councils, this should be introduced imperatively and must be mandatory for all municipalities, because this will only partially help some traders and this will mostly benefit large retail chains. I give an example immediately, I will not say the names, but there are three retail chains operating in the municipality of Burgas, Sozopol, Pomorie. They are exempt from such a fee in Burgas and therefore purely proportional if one third of their establishments are in Burgas, they are deducted one third of their tax. Yes, but in the neighbouring settlement they also operate and thus create an opportunity for unfair competition between traders themselves and I think the state indirectly supports the large retail chains. And the truth is, we are trying to help small, medium-sized traders and anyone who fights for their bread at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u481	Thank you, dear Mr. Baichev. A line? A statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u482	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to support and seek the support of colleagues for the proposal for amendments to the Labour Code by Mr. Christian Mitev under measure 60/40. I'm looking for your support for the real things that we can support small and medium businesses. In our view, this is an unthinkable, theatrical measure taken away from reality and dynamic changes in the labour market and in the collapse of the economy, it does not help but harm. Not only does it harm, it also creates lawlessness and a gray economy. It is evident from the results how many companies have supported this measure. Yesterday, the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria, today and the House of Motor Carriers and the Confederation of Bus Carriers firmly stated that they will not use this measure because they do not have the means to survive tomorrow. [[Laughter, noise and lines.]] It's not funny! Not to mention the collapsed tourism, the closed hotels and restaurants, which are not known whether they will open in July or September 2021. Where will they get these 40% to pay the employees who stay home who do not work, and the closed shops and shops with two or three employees where no one enters because there is a ban on movement of people?! Or do they all have to go bankrupt as small, hopeless, and liven up their time to go together with all the small entrepreneurs, along with their workers, in the queues in front of the labor desks?! What does the state gain by having to pay several hundred thousand unemployed on 60% wage for example a year ahead? Is the social minister sure that the social system will survive and that 10 billion credits will be enough? This measure only makes sense as an attempt to demonstrate the state's concern for business. And that's kind of true. This is really a concern for business, but for the grey, thieving, Bayganyoev and Andreschkovski business, not for the legitimate and honest business. Because Andresko will outsmart the tax collector again! The measure that you have taken will only be accepted willingly by smart businessmen who will benefit not as you expect. The employees could be called by the owner on one occasion or another, under the apprehension of layoffs and weekly waiting in front of the labor desks. The first way is: payroll for a hundred per cent wage, and will receive only the state 60 otherwise cutbacks. The second is possible: a request for termination of the contract of 1 July by mutual agreement which the owner will put in the drawer just in case. Why pay the worker another three months after the end of the state of emergency and not know if his firm will work at all? Those are some of the options. This way the state will pay 60% to the worker for three months, the cook will use it, and he will not pay a penny. I ask: What is the benefit and to whom is the benefit of this measure? [[Heckling]] No, right?! It's no use. That's why the tax collector will tremble in the swamp, and Andresko will get his strength satisfied that he has played the government again. It's about the gray sector. The philosophy of measure is totally wrong. That is why NFSB proposed, without false concern and hypocrisy, that the state take 60% of the salary of everyone in whom its workplace is reserved, without additional funding from the already dying small business, because it does not know how long the crisis will last and whether it will survive. The state should even start working on major infrastructure sites at the cost of loans: highways, water networks, energy, because those waiting for decades to repair bridges, overpasses, unbuilt and dangerous dams, river beds that need cleaning, and others that could provide thousands of jobs with strategic effect for the state. That is why we ask you to support NFSB's proposal with your mind, if there is one left at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u483	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. A line? I saw you liked the terminology. You were happy. I saw you too, Mr. Zarkov. Here's a line for you, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u484	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I'm taking a line because I'm wondering the position you're defending right now. You expressed your voice in this House and last time at first reading that you would support the update of the budget. Where are your group's estimates regarding the measure you are currently offering us? [[Heckling]] This measure is not financially secured, it is secured through the budget. This means that you should not support the update of the budget. If we read your suggestions, we will see some things that are inaccurate. You are introducing texts, you have started and are talking about the Labour Code, in this case the measure 60/40 is not regulated in the Labour Code, but is regulated in the Social Security Code. Indeed, you are also making proposals to amend the Labour Code, but what you are putting forward in your proposal for the Labour Code, on the one hand, are talking about compensation, but in the text you are using, you are also talking about monetary compensation. What is the correct terminology, because one is compensation and it is regulated in the Code of Social Security and in the Labour Code, but in the title you are talking about compensations, it is not clear? And basically your position in terms of budget update should be heard here from this tribune. Most likely, since you have such proposals, you should not support the update of the budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u485	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Mr. Kolev, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u486	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Zhivkov! You didn't say, Mr. Zhivkov, this is the following: that at the moment of our drowning business, which is drowning and dying, we want to pay him back for his salvation, but before we save him. And where would he get that money to be saved? Currently we have an urgent emergency measure in the field of economics. If we don't save the business now, who will fill the budget? If we don't save the small and small business that can't make 40%, how are we going to make this economy operational and functioning after the crisis? At the time of the crisis, we have to give it a chance to take a breath and get it ashore so that it can work and fill the treasury, otherwise it won't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u487	Thank you, Mr. Kolev. Third line, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u488	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear colleague Zhivkov, I do not agree with your speech because it was incomplete and it became clear from your replicating colleagues that they did not really understand what the position you are defending and therefore what was made as a proposal. Actually, it's about compensation. What was quoted as a title is not really accurate, it is not about compensation, but about compensation, first. Secondly, these proposals are recognized by us, which are submitted by the four nationally represented employers' organizations, united in the Association of Bulgarian Employers. Next, as regards the update of the budget. In order to reconcile in any way with the update of the budget, firstly, these proposals must be adopted. Once they are not supported, there is no need to make changes in the budget update accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u489	Mr. Ivanov, the doppelganger. The owner of the douche bag is not in the room. We'll continue with the next speech. Mrs. Klisurska, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u490	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I take note of the proposals that our parliamentary group has made. We spoke a lot of our arguments when we looked at the budget update, but I will say something that we were unable to say at the time. Two weeks ago, when we voted on the Law on Measures, in the Labour Code, we made an amendment relating to the fact that there is a certain risk group, which in some way must be protected and that this risk group has all the opportunities to use paid and unpaid leave to be protected. These are the mothers of children who raise children up to 12 years of age, or adoptive parents, these are pregnant workers and employees, as well as workers or employees in advanced stage of treatment in vitro, these are workers and employees who are a single father or adopter of a child up to 12 years of age, they are a worker or employee who has not reached 18 years of age, a worker or employee with a permanently reduced capacity 50 and over 50 to 100, a worker or employee with the right to protection in the case of dismissal under art. 333. We increase the term of the state of emergency. They're all on unpaid leave. What do we do for this group? It's not a coincidence that we made our proposal. Notice, these people we've decided we're gonna keep them safe, that we're gonna protect them in some form, and what do we do now? You don't support our proposal, but these people won't have any income because they're on unpaid leave, and how do we protect them? Not at all! In this regard, our proposal is linked, and not only to these categories, but to all who do not receive income, but import into the insurance system that work and who are ready to continue to work, what do we do for them? And we want a simple support, minimum wage. It is done by all European countries, thus supporting their people who are paying their contributions. In this regard, I ask you to reconsider our proposal relating to those on unpaid leave being entitled to such support. Regarding our other proposal, I thank my colleague Baichev. When we discussed the proposals on the budget update, we said it, but again from this tribune, I want to tell you that in the category of those marginals, and I will use that word, as the finance minister called them with an apology, and I put it, with an apology to all of them, I want to say that these are not only free professions, they are not just craftsmen, and these are those sole traders, because we forget about them. Under the Natural Persons Income Act, you know how many sole traders there are who provide themselves. These are people who work for their families, who are micro-enterprises. What do we do for them? Nothing, nothing! In this regard, our second proposal, the self-serving ones, indeed, are a serious group. I was listening to Vladislav Goranov's comment earlier, after we finished the budget update debates, and he said: "We are thinking. "But we have to think now, not in one month or two months, because these micro companies are currently suffering. Most of them pay rent and credit won't do, we liquidate them. So review this proposal with regard to our proposals. He said: "We need to see, explore their income, explore their social status." It is normal to now decide that we will support them by an act of the Council of Ministers, by decree can be regulated all these details which he refers to. But we have to show attitude now, and I say it today all day, now and today, because people are scared that they won't have any income, that they can't raise their children properly, and they expect the responsible attitude from us. Thank you for your attention. I hope you will review your positions and review what we are offering you, because it is reasonable and does not relate to a large financial resource, and we have also indicated where it can be secured.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u491	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. A statement? Mr. Angelov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u492	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am entitled to § 9, Art. 9. 25 which concerns how tour operators will reimburse their customers. Tourist companies, and in the largest branch organisation, were sent, I think, to all parliamentary groups, to the Ministry of Tourism, had meetings with the Minister of Tourism to get acquainted with the problems they currently have with this situation, which is also being created with the crisis that will come after that. This proposal, which has been made, makes it very much possible to compensate people and with vouchers for the future time they use, which is good. But I am personally concerned that the customers of the tour operators who do not agree to receive a voucher after the end of the emergency situation within a month should be paid back by the tour operators. The question, however, is: where will the tour operators return the money or all the money, or one part of the money, provided that they have signed contracts for example with foreign tour operators, or have concluded with foreign hotels, or with Bulgarian hotels precisely for these customers and have transferred funds, including a cap, or have paid the entire service to be able to benefit from a greater discount and be cheaper for customers? It's just that within a month of the state of emergency, I don't see how the tour companies will be able to return these funds. In this way we will make sure that really this industry... the tour operators themselves, simply to go bankrupt or to go bankrupt even. And in my opinion, it would be logical to think about the possibilities to extend this deadline so that these people can recover at least one part of the money from contracts they have made with others, because neither currently Turkish hotels, Greek hotels or the Bulgarian Black Sea coast for Easter will be refunded to the tour operators. That's not gonna happen. That is, we are putting a branch on the tour industry, right now directly on the pangara, that is, you're done, you're done, and that's it. Therefore, Mr. Chairman, I am making an editorial amendment in art. 25, the last sentence, which is: The tour operator recovers no later than one month, to become a member of the company no later than six months, so that customers can also have a chance to receive their funds or service and so that the tour operators themselves can have time to even borrow credits so that they can stay in this business. As far as I know, the tour operator has requested a 12-month extension, but I think we should still look for some balance between the customers and those who provide services. So it's my suggestion that the term of one month will be six months. Thus, much of the people may agree and receive vouchers, because they will be able to use the service at any time, that is, we will enable really to solve this problem and not deepen it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u493	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. - What's the line? The line, Mr. Kolev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u494	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Angelov! Mr. Angelov, we are talking about tourism, we are talking about our restaurants, our hoteliers, our tour operators, where will these people get 40% to pay for their workers and where is the guarantee that this crisis will end and they can then have a true full season? They don't. Here the state must help 100%. The state must pay 60% and this should be the means to save and help the business and not the employer to pay extra. So in the field of tourism in general, saving is the only one, as is in Germany "60/0." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u495	Thank you, Mr. Kolev. Mrs. Alexandrova's line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u496	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Angelov, very briefly in my reply I would like to explain to you that yesterday, Minister Angelkova was present in the Committee on Legal Affairs, which very clearly and categorically defended the measure they proposed, precisely the way we signed it. Why am I saying this? Because with the period we are giving.. by one month extension after the expiry of the emergency situation, there will be an opportunity to draw practice from the respective countries. A decision of the European Commission is also awaiting to stick to what will be done to other foreign tour operators? Not only that, we are waiting for information from the tour operators themselves how much such customers actually have, who have the need to get their money. [[Reply.]] Yes, we cannot fulfill the 12 months most likely, but I believe that the Ministry of Tourism is working on this issue and we will have a solution soon. That's what I meant in my line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u497	Thank you. Is there a third line? I can't see. Mr. Angelov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u498	I am glad that the Ministry of Tourism is checking the situation and waiting for data to see how it should be properly reacted. I'm not suggesting anything different. I suggest that these people remain calm, because right now the biggest enemy of the people who are out of a job or their business is ruined is fear and that it will not be thought of. I am making this proposal in view of the people who are in this industry to calm down and know that they will not put the blindfolds on the first month and wonder what to do. I don't do anything different and nothing worse. I do not see why we should wait for foreign countries, provided that it is clear that the deadline cannot be one month. The most reasonable term is a minimum of six months for these people to really have a chance to get back on their feet. What Mr. Kolev replicated me with and also to you: I care personally about this industry from the point of view that a large part of the tourist companies in Bulgaria nowadays are a family business. It's not those big companies that had thousands of employees in place and so on. All of these people - whether two or three people are members of one family or five or six people have a tour company - in most parts it is a family business. And we must give this family business some assurance that these people must survive. So I suggest that they be calm, that they know that they will not be pressed against the wall and that the state will make sure that they can start working again. That's what they want. They don't want any real help right now, they don't want any money together. They want to have the opportunity to postpone what they can't give because they have paid it to other tour operators or hotels or to various tourist companies and sites all over the world. That's what they're worried about. I therefore appeal to support this proposal so that these people can truly be calm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u499	Thank you. Mr. Zarkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u500	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, at nine and a half hours of work and when many texts dealing with different materials have been reported, it is really difficult to follow the debate, so I will try to be as precise and focused as possible. All day today, we argued mainly, beyond all details, about which people deserve the most protection and where the state should intervene the most. And here we have some concrete examples of differences in our views. For example, our proposal is rejected that food scrappers be exempt from the return of VAT to be recovered. They do not, in your opinion, deserve this support, but are exempt from its elementary commitment to provide employees with interior disinfectants, protective equipment, alcohol or other things that are necessary to prevent the spread of contagious disease. It is envisaged that the Ministry of Interior will have the opportunity to receive donations on this issue. I put aside the humiliating fact that Bulgarian policemen will have to go and pray for a donation, and I take you back several years when the topic of the Ministry of Interior's donations was quite up-to-date. I hope we don't go back to those times. I'm only setting this as an example, but I can move on. We have been denied the persons whose commercial activity has been suspended as a result of the anti-epidemic measures introduced, not to owe local fees and household waste, but it is very important that we take care of the time limits of those whose access to classified information expires, for example, for different periods of money laundering, for different deadlines concerning the declaration of senior officials to the KPCONPI and so on and so forth. It's a matter of priorities. I don't underestimate the questions you've decided to settle, but I think you've put aside the most important thing. In addition to BSP's proposals, which we have talked about extensively, I would like to say that here we propose to reconsider the possibility of storing and providing sensitive data, of traffic data, of data on the location of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior without prior judicial decision for people who are subject to mandatory isolation or hospital treatment under art. 61 of the Health Act. You remember this debate. We opposed this fact because, last but not least, it also applies to outside the state of emergency. And as all of you are following and reading people, you know that there is a debate going around the world about the world that awaits us in a few months when it passes. And I absolutely don't want this to be a world of observation and of constant monitoring, so it's under good measures. And if that happens, it's only after a judgment. Therefore, you have the opportunity to reconsider this decision and before it goes to the Constitutional Court for verification, to cancel it. With that, I think we'll all win. I also have one procedural proposal, by the way, another, very important detail. Our measures, estimated at several hundred million, which we talked about during the budget and which aimed to guarantee the minimum income of those who remain on unpaid leave, not at their will or the self-employed, were rejected mainly by the argument that we are at the beginning or middle of a crisis and every lev must be important. At the same time today the media have spread information that the Bulgarian Development Bank, which will be a key element in the organization of certain aids, has distributed very serious amounts of millions, to a small turnover company under very questionable conditions, that is, somehow for people we save and look for every penny and for every lev. For some companies, businesses and institutions, things seem to happen differently. I told you about the Law on Electronic Communications. Dear Mr. President, this is both a procedure and, essentially, because there is one paragraph that contains an extremely large amount of matter. It's about § 10. I'm gonna ask you to. 1 et c. 2 to be voted separately from the other points. What's it to you? We want to vote separately from them so that we can support them. Point 1 is actually the essence of the proposal, which improves the measure 60/40. Her importer, Mr. Tsonev, is here, and I guess he'll clear it up. She was adopted unanimously. This is the measure that makes from 60/40, actually 60/40, i.e. taking over the state's contributions according to the relevant parameters. We do not know, and rather we are skeptical about whether it will be enough for 60/40 to work, but we support this experience because it is extremely important for a employment plan to work and not to go people mass in front of the labour bureaus. From a scenario where people are going to the employment agency and to the employment desks, they're going to lose everyone. Workers will lose income, employers will lose their perspective and their workers, and the state will also lose because it will pay this money, which will most likely prove to be more than the temporary measure 60/40 and if it manages to keep the place. That is to say, the only real step in this bill that is being taken to improve this measure to some extent, we will support it, but we warn you once again that we do not believe that this measure will be sufficient. And if it is not and the negative scenarios are realized, you will be responsible for this. Point two is the issue of party subsidies. GERB MPs suggest during the state of emergency not to give party subsidies to political parties. We support and will support this proposal by voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u501	Thank you. Mr. Zarkov, one second. [[Reference between the President and the National Representative Krum Zarkov.]] - What's the line? I can't see. Come in, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u502	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, once again, I thank my fellow Members in the ruling majority for adopting this proposal. I hope they confirm it today with their vote. I took the floor not for this, but to note to the executive that the signals about the implementation of this measure are very diverse, not to say bad. What do I mean? I am referring to the orders of the labour bureaus for the documents they require of employers, by which they are practically narrowing the scope of the measure. I pay attention to the Minister of Finance, I pay attention to the executive and to those who will apply this proposal in practice, to correct this order because I know that this has happened by order, not by regulation, and to fulfill the lawmaker's will as it is. Otherwise, we will see ourselves forced to make an amendment to the Law and to accurately formulate the scope of this measure. I believe that at this stage this is not necessary, since we have paid attention to the executive, not to allow narrowing of this field. What do I mean? If the measure concerns stopped businesses, companies and companies, workers who are already out of the field, it should also apply to companies who are making immense efforts to still keep part of the staff. This is exactly how we have proclaimed the measure, as it is said, that we have voiced the ears of employers, that this measure is aimed at preserving jobs. If so, any company that wants to keep jobs must be within the scope of this measure, of course, if there are visible signs of being affected by the crisis. There's a lot of hypotheses here. For this reason, we do not allow ourselves to list all the hypotheses in the Law now, but if we have to, we will. If we receive another signal that the measure is being narrowed by its application by regulations, orders, regulations or any regulations by the executive authority or by executive bodies, we will see ourselves forced to do so as well. I wanted this to sound out of this tribune. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u503	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Is there a line? I won't. Speaking, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u504	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, I will propose an editorial amendment in the newly created § 9, art. 25.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u505	Just a moment so I can keep track. In § 9...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u506	Yes, in the version of the Commission, a new § 9. This is on page 11, then on next page 12, the newly created art. 25...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u507	Where Mr. Angelov offered six months.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u508	Where Mr. Angelov proposed 6 months, I propose 12 months, which is actually the proposal of the tour operators and it makes sense that they can practically not for such a short period of time restore their activities in a volume where they can fulfil these obligations. The objective is, however, that these amounts should the traveller accordingly not accept the voucher and, in the absence of another package agreement, the tour operator should recover the amounts paid. The aim is not to make these tour operators go bankrupt, also bankrupt the type of creditors where these citizens will find themselves quite far back, well after a country, municipalities and the entire order that follows in the insolvency proceedings under the Commercial Law. I therefore believe that this deadline is more appropriate and I ask you to put it to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u509	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Are there any lines? I can't see. Statements? Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u510	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm also going to talk about measure 60/40, which is currently... I would say that Mr. Tsonev expressed himself very softly. Not that it's not working, it would work, but for people with big companies who have the opportunity to pay these amounts As is clear, for most of the medium and small companies this is impossible. I am very pleased that you have made this proposal and it has been accepted by the government. Usually they do not accept anything from the opposition, but apparently it also tells them that the measure does not work to a full extent, or at least what we want to do with this measure. That's why I'm glad. As you said, there is a narrowing of measure. I talk to a lot of my colleagues at the labor desks. I must tell you that they are currently tasked with many non-military tasks to assess financial conditions and so on. With this Order No 55, I think it was No 55 from 2020, we are simply making it difficult for them. It is not enough that we burdened them with the extraordinary measures, to do the work of the National Insurance Institute, by accepting the documents for compensation to the unemployed, but now we are burdening them with one, I would not say an involuntary task, because they have done according to various programs and measures have assessed who to give preference to, to whom not to give. However, in this case, responsibility for the final decision has been taken by the Cooperation Councils, which are built on the principle of the National Cooperation Council. In local offices there is such a joint National Cooperation Council, on which is the final decision to whom the money is to be distributed and to whom it is not to whom. In this case, they decide directly and they have competence to see who has reduced profit, turnover or what 20% down there.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u511	Turnover, turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u512	At least it was right, as the Commission included a representative of the NSI for accepting unemployment benefits, so that a representative of the NRA could be included so that these things could be more easily assessed. For example, why not go through the Cooperation Council? I understand because of operational, because of quick action, but so we risk making some mistake and then blaming the labor bureaus, and they have no fault in this case, neither for narrowing the scope nor for... What you did with extra insurance is very good. However, I continue to argue that the measure will still work hard. Let's see, as they say: We'll live, we'll see! Our proposal is also not for ignoring a minimum wage for anyone who has left on unpaid leave, because now we or you or the government, this Order No 55 will enable those who are yet to release people. What about the ones who've already put them on vacation? I have, as I'm sure you have tens of thousands of calls from people who have already been put on unpaid leave. What do we do for them? Moreover, what we propose is being implemented by several countries. Now I will not go into detail to say, because we have all received what they are doing in other countries on this matter. There's something else I want to tell you. This is my own personal idea, which I intend to present soon as I present as a ZID of the Law, although with the clear awareness that we are already late to do these things. Perhaps we should have made it so that any employer who has a threat to the employees who work with him, free them or leave them on unpaid leave, register them in the employment offices, and say, let's come up with the term as a temporary release, and during that period they receive the benefits, whether in the amount recorded in the Social Security Code or whether it will be provided for some amount higher than that for a certain period of two or three months, with the commitment that the employer, when that period expires, will have his employees back with him. Otherwise, if they cannot stay, they will receive their normal compensation. For example, if he has not returned them, and the worker or employee receives more than the compensation due under the Social Security Code, the employer should restore it or not restore it. There are far better solutions than this 60/40, because, I say again, we are thus narrowing the scope of the people who will use it. It's our idea to help everyone who's in trouble. I think we could've done better, but if that's what we're gonna do for insurance, God forbid it works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u513	Thank you. A line?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u514	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear colleague Gokov, I am glad that Mr. Tsonev covered the whole issue related to the measure 60/40. Even when we voted on the proposals in the Law on Measures and Actions during this emergency, we said that in the way we propose the amendment of the Social Security Code, we completely confuse philosophy, because at the moment there is indeed such a regime that is being applied and it is in Germany. Unfortunately, we have Bulgarians and in this way, in which we have introduced it, we are not helping either the employer, nor are we helping the worker. Unfortunately for me, it wasn't just downgraded. What you have touched on, Mr. Gokov, the most disturbing in the Decree, which was adopted by the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation and then by the Council of Ministers, is related to the hypotheses in which an employer who wants to benefit from compensation is not entitled to release workers under art. 328 paragraphs 1, 2, 3, and 4. Do you know what these hypotheses are? These are those hypotheses in which, when the worker is relieved of his employment, he is entitled to receive compensation from one party, for unsaved notice, on the other hand, compensation for the time during which he was unemployed, and from a third party, compensation for unused leave. In fact, now, with this, we say that every employer who at some point decided to reduce the volume in which it works because a certain category of workers want to release them and they want to go and benefit from that compensation from the employment bureau, which will give them the right to benefit 12 months and more, on the basis of their use, we say: What will happen at the moment with the Decree will happen that all those employers, on the one hand, cannot cover the difference of 40% and, on the other hand, we say to them: you will force workers to be released by mutual agreement. Do you know what happens at the labor desks with them? They receive the minimum compensation that has not been touched in years, within 4 months, and these people will receive not what they have been provided for, but what the state will minimally give them and what is not actually due to them. Indeed, the decree is extremely mistaken and determines the totally wrong philosophy of this measure. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I said it...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u515	I note it was a line. NADIA CLISURSKA: Mr. Chairman, excuse me for thinking that the amount should have gone directly to the insured person according to the model of Germany. This is the better model, Mr. Gokov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u516	Mr. Gokov, half the answer has already been given.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u517	I'm not going to abuse that, because, basically, it wasn't a line. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in this way, which we did with this decree, many of the companies whose calls came to me have obligations to the fissure. They don't have to pay their debts, they just have late payments over time. They pay people's interest, they look to pay them, but now they can't take advantage of this decree to get the money for the workers first. Secondly, I would just like to point out that even with your proposal, Mr. Tsonev, money again does not reach the worker directly and immediately. As long as we have our two proposals, and with the minimum wage and insurance on it for every released worker there on unpaid leave, and what I'm telling you goes directly to the person and he can immediately take advantage of it. I'm sorry that...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u518	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Statements? Mrs. Alexandrova, we're talking about Mr. Tzipov's proposal, I presume?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u519	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a proposal to the National Representative Krasimir Tzipov not reflected in the final version of § 8, which becomes § 10, which is why I propose in the version of the Commission: "1." To create a new t. 2: "2." In § 20: a) Previous text becomes para. 1; (b) the creation of para. 2: The procedure for determining permanently reduced performance/type and degree of disability, respectively, for determining the suitability for military service and service in the voluntary reserve, shall also apply to Alinea 1 before the state of emergency is announced. 2. Points 2 to 5 become points 3 to 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u520	Thank you. Let's get one thing straight, Mrs. Alexandrova. In fact, this is not your proposal, it is a proposal from the Commission to make a complement text that has been adopted by the composition of the Commission, but is, for technical reasons, not included in the text. Please note this in the record. Mr. Tsonev, you were paying attention, weren't you? Do you understand? So that it doesn't happen later in the vote... [[Reply of MP Yordan Tsonev.]] Mr. Zarkov is gone, but I told him.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u521	Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MPs Hristian Mitev and Anna Alexandrova according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 11. ..................................................... An annex to art. is created. 3, p. 1: "Acceptance to art. 3, p. 1 Productions and cases in which time limits do not cease to run I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Criminal proceedings: 1. Lawsuits under art. Art. 64, Art. 65 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and under art. 270 of the Code of Criminal Procedure; 2. Lawsuits under art. 66 of the Code of Criminal Procedure; 3. Lawsuits under art. 67 of the Code of Criminal Procedure; 4. Lawsuits under art. 68 of the Code of Criminal Procedure; 5. Lawsuits under art. 69 of the Code of Criminal Procedure; 6. Lawsuits under art. 70 of the Code of Criminal Procedure; 7. The measures referred to in paragraph 1 shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. Art. 72, Art. 73 of the Code of Criminal 8. Interrogation of a defendant in front of a judge under art. 222 of the Code of Criminal Procedure; 9. Interrogation of a witness in front of a judge under art. 223 of the Code of Criminal Procedure; 10. Lawsuits under art. 427 of the Code of Criminal Procedure; 11. Chapter Five, Section II of the Health Act; 12. Actions under the Extradition Act and the European Arrest Warrant on requests for detention or surrender of persons; 13. Actions under the Law on recognition, enforcement and transmission of judicial acts for the imposition of imprisonment or measures involving imprisonment; 14. Lawsuits under art. 7 of the Anti-Small Harassment Act; 15. Lawsuits under art. 225, para. 6 of the Code of Criminal Procedure; 16. Lawsuits under art. 326, paragraph 2 of the Penal Code; 17. Lawsuits under art. 355 of the Penal Code; 18. Actions initiated on requests under the Special Intelligence Means Act and Art. 159a of the Code of Criminal Procedure; 19. The procedural actions in the order of art. Art. 146, Art. Article 158, Art. Art. 161, Art. Art. 164, Art. 165 of the Code of Criminal Procedure; 20. Actions on appeal or protesting of criminal decrees issued at or on the occasion of the emergency situation. II. Civil and commercial proceedings: 1. Actions for the exercise of parental rights only in the case of temporary measures; 2. Actions under the Law on Protection against Domestic Violence only concerning an order for immediate protection or amendment of the same, as well as in cases of rejection of the application for protection; 3. Authorisations for withdrawal of amounts from children's deposits; 4. Applications for interim measures; 5. Cases for the freezing of evidence; 6. Requests under the Law on Electronic Communications and Art. 19th para. 6 in connection with para. 5 of the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities in relation to art. 536 of the Civil Procedure Code; 7. Lawsuits under art. 62, para. 3 of the Credit Institutions Act. III. Administrative proceedings 1. Lawsuits under art. Art. 60, Art. 166 of the Administrative Procedure Code; 2. Lawsuits under art. Art. 75, Art. 157 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code; 3. Lawsuits under art. 72 of the Ministry of Interior Act; 4. Applications for interim measures; 5. Cases for the freezing of evidence; 6. Lawsuits under art. 111 of the Law on the Execution of Punishment and Detention; 7. Lawsuits under art. 252 of the Administrative Procedure Code; 8. Actions under the Public Procurement Act; 9. Actions under the Law on concessions; 10. Actions under the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act; 11. Cases under Chapter 3 of the State Property Act and Chapter 3 of the Municipal Property Act; 12. Actions under the Election Code; 13. Actions concerning the challenge of acts establishing public claims; 14. Lawsuits under art. 215 of the Law on Construction in the Area relating to the challenge of acts for issued building permits and for approved and/or amended detailed design plans; 15. Actions on appeal or protesting of administrative acts issued in the event of or on the occasion of the emergency situation; 16. The cases under Chapter 13 of the Administrative Procedure Code. 'Concluding provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. Under § 9, there is a proposal from the MP Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MPs Hristian Mitev and Anna Alexandrova according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal by proposing to reflect it in the relevant systematic place. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... (1) The time limits referred to in art. 3, p. 1 et c. 2 relating to other time limits (s) in the previous version and to the repealed item (s). 3, suspended from the announcement of the emergency situation until the entry into force of this law, continue to run after the end of 7 days of its promulgation in the Official Journal. (2) The actions carried out from the declaration of the state of emergency until the entry into force of this law retain their power. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10 which shall become § 13. Proposal from the National Representative Christian Mitev: A new paragraph shall be set up in the transitional and final provisions: New paragraph. The compensation payable to the insured persons referred to in the applications submitted pursuant to § 6 of the transitional and final provisions of the Law on Measures and Actions during the emergency situation, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, before the entry into force of this Law, shall be paid in accordance with that law. The Commission does not support the proposal. ..................................................... In the Tax Insurance Procedure Code (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 213..... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 14. ................................................................................... In the State Property Act...........................the State Property The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 15. Proposal from the National Representative Stoyan Bojinov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 16: ......... 16........................................... In the Law on Health (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 209a The following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 words in the amount of BGN 5000 shall be replaced by BGN 300 to BGN 1000 and in case of repeated infringement from BGN 1000 to BGN 2000. 2. In para. 2 words of BGN 15 000 shall be replaced by BGN 500 to BGN 2000 and in case of repeated infringement from BGN 2000 to BGN 5000. Under § 13 there is a proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev in accordance with Article 13. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. The law shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of § 3, item 3. 2 concerning Art. 4, para. 2 which shall enter into force within 7 days of its promulgation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u522	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Statements? Mrs. Alexandrova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u523	Colleagues, I'm making an offer for final editing. In § 11, in the Annex to art. 3, p. Section 1, section 1, point 1. 15: The Code of Criminal Procedure (Criminal Code) should be replaced by the Code of Criminal Procedure (Criminal Code) (Criminal Code) (Criminal Code) (Criminal Code)) (Criminal Code) (Criminal Code) (Criminal Code)) (Criminal Code) In the Annex to art. 3, p. Section 1 first is created t. 21: ..21. Lawsuits under art. 437 of the Criminal Procedure Code for early release under art. Art. 70, Art. 71 of the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u524	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u525	Dear Mr. Chairman, I would like to ask for a ten-minute recess on behalf of a group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u526	We interrupt work for ten minutes. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u527	Colleagues, we are continuing with the statements under the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Measures and Actions during the state of emergency. Here you go. There are no speeches. I am closing the debate on this bill. Colleagues, as at the first point: The project of a decision to suspend the basic monthly remuneration of the Members of the National Assembly and the three other decisions, in the meantime, came from Mr. Mareshki, the United Patriarchs, from other proposals. I therefore return to this point and open the debate on further debate on this point and on clarifying the proposals, as some of them cannot be applied in practice purely accounting. Here you go, guys. Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u528	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I will make a proposal for editorial amendments to the submitted Decision to suspend the recalculation of the basic monthly remuneration of the MPs submitted by Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs. We propose the first point of the Decision to look like this: "1." For the period from 1 April 2020 to the cancellation of the emergency situation announced by the National Assembly Decision of 13 March 2020 of the accrued remuneration under art. Art. 5 and art. 6 and under art. 7, para. 1 of the financial rules of the budget of the National Assembly, Annex to the Rules of Procedure, shall be deducted at the expense of insured persons for social security contributions under the Code of Social Security, the Health Insurance Act, tax under the Law on personal income taxes, for other deductions determined by law, deductions under art. 13 of the Rules of Procedure and insurance under Art. 8 of the financial rules and the Members of the National Assembly shall not be paid any remuneration for the remaining amount. Following the deductions and contributions made shall be provided in accordance with the order of art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 4 of the Public Finance Act for making compensated changes between the budgets of the respective senior managers with a budget and the budget of the Ministry of Health, using the funds for the prevention and treatment of the infection with COVID-19. I suggest point two acquire the following content: "2." Point 1 shall apply accordingly to the members of the Council of Ministers, heads of state and executive agencies and members of their political offices. I also propose that point three of the submitted draft decision, Madam President, be dismissed. Dear Members of Parliament, in order to formulate more clearly the proposal for editorial amendments submitted by us, after making all the deductions for taxes and social security contributions, our remuneration will be transferred to the Ministry of Health's account after a compensated budget change has been made. This means that we for the time of the emergency situation, as well as the members of the Council of Ministers and their political offices, as well as the heads of state executive agencies will not receive remuneration in fact, and after the deductions their remuneration will be transferred to these accounts. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the mechanism of our Rules also sets out a number of remunerations for the independent judiciary, the President and the Vice President, a number of regulatory bodies. This proposal is without prejudice to the modification of the mechanism for determining their remuneration. I think that in this way we should all support the Bulgarian citizens in this difficult situation and give our contribution so that there are means for prevention and treatment of the disease. I appeal to this House to vote unanimously on this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u529	Thank you, Mr. Tzipov. Here you go, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u530	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Tzipov! You make me feel proud to be part of this National Assembly. We from the parliamentary group of Volya will be happy to support this proposal, which shows a real, sincere and full empathy for the problems of the Bulgarian people and the Bulgarian business. I hope that this thing will meet support among the entire National Assembly, and if this thing is really a fact, we withdraw our proposal, we will withdraw our offer of work on a minimum wage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u531	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Mr. Yachev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u532	Madam President, honourable Members! We are extremely pleased that our colleagues from GERB supported and enriched the proposal that we made a few hours ago here, in this Chamber, the MPs to work in emergency measures, in crisis measures, without receiving their wage. I, like Mr Mareshki, am pleased and proud to be part of this National Assembly. All of you, colleagues, when you support our proposal and the editorial amendment proposed by colleagues from GERB, will show a most open sense of empathy for the fate of tens and hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens. We withdraw our proposal and support the editorial amendment proposed by Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u533	Mr. Kasabov, come in for a statement. These are statements, not lines. We're starting the speeches again, colleagues. So everyone has time. Since there are several suggestions, we have the opportunity to use more time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u534	Madam President, honourable Members! I am extremely pleased and happy with these proposals that are in tune in the difficult situation we are in. In a simple language, it's called...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u535	Please, colleagues, for silence!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u536	...confidence towards ordinary people, scientifically speaking this is called empathy, meaning you understand and enter the purely emotional sphere of the Bulgarian people. And in my speech in purely moral terms, although we are talking about money, but we are also talking about morality, my proposal, or rather an appeal, is for the President of the State to support this proposal and he himself, together with the Vice President and his team, simply to join us in this situation and to donate their salaries in the coming months, while this crisis lasts. The weather is plagued. We should be together. Who, if not the President, must show precisely this masculinity, maturity and responsibility? Who, if not the father of the Bulgarian nation itself...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u537	Whoa!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u538	...to prove himself somehow and disprove all those absurdities to his image and radiant look? Otherwise, we can say that the father is only a book. That's my appeal. So, Mr. President, as they say, you have very little time left to be a man, a politician and a Bulgarian! That was when you started as president, the appeal to the MPs of the past National Assembly. Now I'm telling you: you have very little left, act and be like a man and a politician! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u539	Thank you, dear Mr. Kasabov. Mr. Angelov, come in, you have an offer too.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u540	Madam President, the editorial proposal that has been made, the editorial amendment proposed by Mr. Tzipov, we will also support it by the IMRO, and withdraw our proposal, which I have made because what Mr. Tzipov proposed is in the spirit of what is expected of us as people responsible in these difficult times to empathize with the problem and help people. That's why I'm withdrawing my offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u541	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Mrs. Stoyanova, will you withdraw your offer?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u542	I'm withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u543	Mrs. Stoyanova also withdrew the proposal for the protocol. Colleagues, any other speeches? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] She withdrew it, Mrs. Stoyanova withdrew before what she had done as an offer. Yes, I was about to address you now, Mr. Tsonev, do you withdraw your proposal, or...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u544	My offer you have fulfilled.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u545	So what you've proposed in such terms, you're withdrawing it for the record. Colleagues, any other speeches? We are continuing the debate. Guys, are there any other speeches? I can't see. Colleagues, I close the debate and we focus on the votes, only by the rules that we have adopted, we have to wait 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u546	They've passed! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u547	At 8:45 p.m. The first group, as we voted last time, was BSP, DPS, Volya and independent colleagues. GERB and "United Patriarchs" are a second group. Thank you, colleagues. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u548	Mr. Tzipov, colleagues, there is only one editorial amendment...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u549	Thank you, Madam President. Since I failed to change the name of the Decision, the Decision should actually look like this. [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria]] Subcutaneous or intravenous use A decision on the remuneration of Members of the National Assembly and other state bodies. And since I wasn't sure if I had read point two correctly, to reread it: "2." Point 1 shall apply accordingly to the members of the Council of Ministers, heads of state and executive agencies.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u550	Thank you, Mr. Tzipov. Let's move on to the vote. Mr. Svilensky informed me, the BSP withdrew their proposal, so we have to vote...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u551	We just heard from the cabinet members?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u552	Mr. Tzipov corrected himself, he just made a mistake, he wasn't sure of...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u553	Let's include it as a new proposal...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u554	Colleagues, we're going to vote. There is one proposal that belongs to Mr. Tsypov, who just read... MUSTAPHA CARADAYE [[DPS, from place]] It was half an hour ago by the book! Let's take a break for half an hour!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u555	Well, Mr. Karadaye, let's... let's just say my colleague got confused and... [[Reply by MP Mustafa Karadayi.]] I put to the vote the First Point Decision Project presented by Mr. Tzipov. Please, voting mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u556	Who introduced her during the debate?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u557	No, in the extra debate after that.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u558	What debate? I'll get the transcript and check it out! During the debate... We vote on the proposal made during the debate...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u559	No, the editorial proposal Mr. Tzipov made in the supplement. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u560	If it's a new proposal, let's get into the rules of procedure! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u561	How are you going to change it before the vote?! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u562	Colleagues, we're already in voting procedure. [[Strength noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]] You're welcome, Mr. Karadaye. I got it, I got it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u563	Do you understand?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u564	Got it. Mr. Tzipov has to make a motion to drop out. Thank you, Mr. Karadayi, I understand. If you want to talk, it's okay. I get the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u565	Madam President, the idea was that we have adopted rules. The debate is held at one time, in half an hour the vote begins. If we are going to vote now, it would be right to vote on the proposals that have been tabled, that is, half an hour ago. If there are going to be new proposals at the time of the vote, that means a new debate is opening up, and then the vote will be half an hour after the new debate is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u566	Thank you, thank you, Mr. Karadaye. There's really a new proposal that... Mr. Popov, come in. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Okay, guys, you have a floor for debate, come on in regarding... [[(Strong noise and shouts from BSP for Bulgaria ……]] Okay, guys, wait a minute, I'm already confused! Wait a minute, wait a minute! [[Noise and lines on the left.]] Wait a minute, calm down! [[Noise and lines on the left.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u567	Where are the Patriots?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u568	Because there's been a change in... [[Loud noise and lines.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u569	Madam President, I beg you to follow the rules adopted by Parliament on your proposal. Mr. Karadayi explained, and I will repeat: After the debate is over 30 minutes of rest and vote. We've withdrawn our offer. Please proceed to the vote with this round of individuals who will donate their wage for the fight against the coronavirus. So don't change your mind every 15 minutes. After all, there is one part of parliament here and the other part is gone. What debate do you open in a parliament where only BSP and DPS participate? Thank you. [[(Unique applause and cheering by DPS: Bravo, bravo!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u570	Invite GERB. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u571	Colleagues, the point is that the title presented by Mr. Tzipov last time is different.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u572	Not the title.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u573	And the title. [[Replys to the left: No, no.]] The title was different. [[(Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] The point is, we have to change the title. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u574	A whole new debate or Tsypov's proposal in the original form.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u575	And a new debate. [[Relations from the National Representative Philip Popov. Replices.]] That's right, that's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u576	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u577	Do you have a procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u578	Madam President, colleagues! I believe that by sticking to the rules that we have adopted, we have two options or we move on to a new debate...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u579	It's closed.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u580	...or we're having another debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u581	We didn't vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u582	Or we are voting on the original proposal, which was adopted, as was done by my colleague Tzipov, including political offices. Because there is no argument in motion as an editorial amendment to make a fundamental change in the proposals. Thank you. [[Applause on the left.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u583	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u584	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u585	Thank you. Madam President, there is one hypothesis here, there are no two hypotheses. The debate is closed. We're in a voting procedure. We are currently voting on what has been read here, which we have approved here by all the parliamentary groups. It was read by Mr. Tzipov and it is a fact as editing and as a solution, it spread among the groups in the holiday... which you made and which Mr. Tzipov read. The debate cannot be resumed for the third, fifth or tenth time. We vote on what is proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u586	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Let's move on to the vote. [[Noise and lines.]] We're going to vote! Guys, there's a problem. [[Heckling]] Listen to me! The title doesn't match what it is. [[Loud noise and lines: No, no pass.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u587	No, no!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u588	Okay, wait till I tell you! The title to be read... [[Replys from MP Yordan Tsonev.]] One is: The decision to suspend the payment of the basic monthly remuneration of the Members of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u589	We're not recalculating it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u590	And the new title is: a decision on the remuneration of the Members of the National Assembly and other state bodies. [[DPS lines, noise.]] And the lyrics. [[Heckling]] Guys, take five so we don't have to yell at each other. [[Loud noise and lines on the left.]] Guys, wait, don't come out! [[Definitions]] . (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u591	Guys, I'm gonna tell you what happened. Mr. Tzipov withdraws the proposal for the members of the political cabinet. It's part of a t. 2. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u592	It's not imported. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u593	It's not imported, calm down! Calm down! Since we are currently in a voting procedure and will not change the title, remove the title, remains: ? RESPONSIBILITY? The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and § 2 of the Additional Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. For the period from 1 April 2020 until the emergency situation declared by decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020 of the accrued remuneration under art. 5 and 6 and under art. 7, para. 1 of the Financial Rules on the Budget of the National Assembly, Annex to the Rules of Procedure, shall be deducted at the expense of insured persons for social security contributions under the Social Security Code, the Health Insurance Act, the Tax Act, under the Law on personal income taxes, for other deductions determined by law, deductions under art. 13 of the Financial Rules and Insurance under art. 8 of the Financial Rules and the Members of the National Assembly shall not be paid remuneration and the remaining amount after the deductions and contributions made shall be granted in accordance with art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 4 of the Public Finance Act for making compensated changes between the budgets of the respective chief authorising officers with a budget and the budget of the Ministry of Health, using the funds for the prevention and treatment of the infection with COVID-19. 2. Point 1 shall apply accordingly to the members of the Council of Ministers, heads of state and executive agencies and members of their political offices. I put the decision so read to the vote. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. In parliamentary groups for: Colleagues, secretaries? THE PARLIAMENT SECRETARS [[sides microphones]] : Yes, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u594	Affirmative. I read the whole thing, the rest is withdrawn. Colleagues, we're moving on to the State Budget Act. Colleagues, please be patient! First, we vote on the text of the importer supported by the Commission on the name of the Law. [[Heckling]] Colleagues, vote directly for......................... and abstention............................................................................. [[Replying that the consoles do not accept fingerprints.]] Just vote one more time. Vote 72 MPs: 34 against 37, abstention 1. Under the parliamentary groups "for": "BSP" for Bulgaria "9," DPS 14, "VOLIA" "Bulgarian Rodoljuktsi" "7" non-members in PG "4." I put to the vote first the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Vote 69 MPs: 45 against 3, abstention 21. By parliamentary groups:.BSP for Bulgaria.45 for, DPS.13 abstentions.ВОЛЯ.Български patriots......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 1 supported by the Commission. 70 MPs voted: 24, against 46, no abstentions. According to parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "46 against," DPS "13 for," "VOLIA" "Bulgarian patriots" "7" for non-members in PG "4" for. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Vote 66 MPs: 44, Against 7, abstention 16. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "43" for, "DPS" "12 abstentions," "VOLIA" "Bulgarian Rhodolists" "7 against, non-members of PG" 4 abstentions. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 2 supported by the Commission. Vote 67 MPs: 24, against 43, no abstentions. According to parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "43 against," DPS "13 for," "VOLIA" "Bulgarian Rhodolists" "7 for, non-members in PG" "4" for. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev for § 3. Vote 63 MPs: 42, Against 7, abstention 14. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "42" for, "DPS" 1 against and 10 abstentions, "VOLIA" "Bulgarian Rhodolists" "6 against, non-members of PG" 4 abstentions. I shall put to the vote the version of § 3 of the Commission Report. Vote 67 MPs: 24, against 43, no abstentions. According to parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "43 against," DPS "13 for," "VOLIA" "Bulgarian Rhodolists" "7 for, non-members in PG" "4" for. I'm voting § 4 by importer. Vote 68 MPs: 24, against 44, no abstentions. According to parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "44 against," DPS "13 for," "VOLIA" "Bulgarian Rodoljuktsi" "7 for, non-members in PG" "4" for. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer for paragraphs 5 and 6, the name "Concluding provisions', 7 and 8 including. Vote 66 MPs: 23 against 43 and no abstentions. According to parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "43 against," DPS "12 for," "VOLIA" "Bulgarian Rhodolists" "7 for, non-members of PG" "4" for. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs for § 9. Vote 62 MPs: 45 against 7, abstention 10. By parliamentary groups:.BSP for Bulgaria.45 for, DPS 1 against, 7 abstentions,.VOLYA "Bulgarian Rhodolists".......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 9. Vote 68 MPs: 23, against 45, no abstentions. According to parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "45 against," DPS "13 for," "VOLIA" "Bulgarian Rhodolists" "7 for, non-members of PG" "3 for." I shall put to the vote the text of § 10. Vote 64 MPs: 24 against 40 abstentions. According to parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "40 against," "DPS" 13 for, "VOLIA" "Bulgarian Rodoljuktsi" "7" for, non-members of PG 4 for. And that's the end of that law. We move on to: a second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the law on measures and actions during the emergency situation, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Vote 68 MPs: for 67, against none, abstention 1. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "43" for, 1 abstention, DPS "13" for, "VOLYA" for, "Bulgarian Rhodolivtsi" "7" for, non-members of PG "4" for. We move on to the text of the importer for § 1, supported by the Commission. Vote 66 MPs: 23, Against 3, abstention 40. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "3 against" and 40 abstentions, DPS "12 for," "VOLIA" "Bulgarian patriots" "7 for non-members in PG" "4" for. We are voting for the version of § 2 of the Commission Report. They voted 65 MPs: for 65, against and abstention there is no. According to parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "42" for, "DPS" for, "12" for, "VOLYA" for, "Bulgarian patriots" for, "Unmembered in PG" for, "4" for, "Bulgarian patriots" for, "Unmembered in PG." We continue with the unsupported proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov. Please, voting mode. Vote 64 MPs: 2 against 51, abstention 11. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "41 against," "DPS" 2 for and 10 against, "VOLIA" "Bulgarian patriots" "7 abstentions, non-members of PG" 4 abstentions. We move on to the editorial amendment, which is made to the version of § 3. We are voting for Anna Alexandrova. They voted 65 MPs: 22, none, abstention 43. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "43" abstentions, DPS "12" for, "VOLIA" "Bulgarian patriots" "6" for and 1 abstention, Non-members of PG 4 for. We are voting for the version of § 3. They voted 63 MPs: 24, none, abstention 39. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "39 abstentions," DPS "13 for," "VOLIA" "Bulgarian patriots" "7" for non-members of PG "4" for. We vote on the text of the importer for § 4. Vote 61 MPs: 61, against and abstention there is no. According to parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "37" for, "DPS" 13 for, "VOLYA" for, "Bulgarian patriots" "7" for, "Unmembered in PG" 4 for. We move on to the version of Paragraph 5 of the Commission Report. Vote 58 MPs: 23, against 35, no abstentions. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "35 against," DPS "12" for, "VOLIA" "Bulgarian patriots" "7" for, non-members of PG "4" for. Just for the record, the editorial amendments made by Philip Popov and Dessislava Atanasova have been withdrawn. We're moving on to the editing of § 6. Please vote. Vote 61 MPs: 61, no abstentions. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "37" for, "DPS" "12" for, "VOLIA" "Bulgarian patriots" "7" for, non-members of PG "4" for. We are going to vote on a new § 7, which has two editorial amendments. One editorial amendment belongs to Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u595	I'm withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u596	Okay, he's withdrawing the amendment, Mr. Popov. There is an editorial amendment of Iskren Veselinov, which is for the creation of para. 2: The municipal councils may be exempt from payment of individual local taxes and fees in whole or in part for the duration of the emergency situation of natural and legal persons who have suspended or restricted their activities following measures against the pandemic. Mr. Philip Popov's proposal is adjourned. We are now voting on the proposal of Honest Veselinov. Vote 52 MPs: 51, none, abstention 1. According to parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "35" for, "DPS" for, "12" for, "VOLYA" for, "Bulgarian patriots" for, "1" for, "Unmembered in PG" for, "4" for, "Bg" for, "Bg" for, "Bg" for, "Bg" for, "Bg" for, "Bg" for," "Bg" for, "Bg" for, "Bg" for, "Bg" for, "Bg" for, "Bg" for, "Bg" for, "Bg" for," "Bg" for, "Bg" for," "Bg" for, "Bg" for," "Bg" for, "Bg" for," "Bg" for, "Bg" for, "Bg" for," We are voting on the newly born § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u597	What are we waiting for now?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u598	Mr. Tsonev, you're very nervous. They voted 63 MPs: for 63, against and abstention there is no. According to parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "39" for, "DPS" 13 for, "VOLYA" for, "Bulgarian patriots" "7" for, "Unmembered in PG" 4 for. We are voting for Mr. Kolev's unsupported proposal. [[(Replys from the BSP for Bulgaria) What are we voting for? Let's reschedule.]] Vote 62 MPs: 8 against 52, abstention 2. By parliamentary groups: "BSP" for Bulgaria "1" for and 37 against, "DPS" for 13 against, "VOLIA" for "Bulgarian patriots" for "non-members of PG 4" for. Revoting, coworkers. Vote 60 MPs: 7 for, against 51, abstention 2. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "36 against," "DPS" 13 against, "VOLIA" "Bulgarian patriots" "7" for, non-members of PG 2 for and 2 abstentions. We move on to the creation of a new § 8, art. 15a. Please, voting mode. Vote 61 MPs: 61, against and abstention there is no. According to parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "38" for, "DPS" 13 for, "VOLYA" for, "Bulgarian Rhodoljuktsi" (Bulgarian Rhodolyknits) / "6 for, Non-members of PG" - 4 for. We are voting for the unsupported proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Please, voting mode. Vote 63 MPs: 40 against 7, abstention 16. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "39" for, "DPS" 1 for, 12 abstentions, "VOLYA" "Bulgarian Rhodolists" "7 against, non-members of PG" 4 abstentions. We vote the version of § 7, which becomes § 8, but please renumber after that. Please, voting mode. Vote 61 MPs: 24, no objection, 37 abstentions. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "37 abstentions," DPS "13 for," "VOLYA" "Bulgarian Rhodolists" "7" for non-members of PG 4 for. We continue with the vote of the unsupported proposal of the MPs Hristian Mitev and Boris Yachev. Please, voting mode. Vote 61 MPs: 1 against 21, abstention 39. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "9 against," 28 abstentions, DPS 1 for, 12 against, "VOLIA" "Bulgarian Rhodolists" "7 abstentions, non-members of PG" 4 abstentions. We continue with the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Please, voting mode. Vote 59 MPs: 35 against 7, abstention 17. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "35" for, "DPS" "13 abstentions," "VOLIA" "Bulgarian Rhodolists" "7 against, non-members of PG" 4 abstentions. I put to the vote the created new § 9. Please cancel the vote. There is a proposal first of the MP Julian Angelov. Please, voting mode. Vote 61 MPs: for no, against 15, abstention 46. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "12 against," 26 abstentions, DPS 3 against, 10 abstentions, "VOLYA" "Bulgarian Rhodolists" "6 abstentions, non-members of PG" 4 abstentions. We are voting for the editorial amendment of the Parliamentary Representative Christian Mitev. Please, voting mode. Vote 58 MPs: for no, against 18, abstention 40. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "15 against," 20 abstentions, DPS 3 against, 9 abstentions, "VOLYA" "Bulgarian Rhodolists" "7 abstentions, non-members of PG" 4 abstentions. We are voting for the new § 9. Please, voting mode. 60 MPs voted: 23, Against 6, abstention 31. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "6 against," 31 abstentions, DPS "13 for," "VOLIA" "Bulgarian Rhodolists" "6 for non-members in PG" "4 for." We continue with the unsubstantiated proposal of the MP Christian Mitev. Please, voting mode. Vote 57 MPs: for no, against 13, abstention 44. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "6 against," 27 abstentions, DPS 7 against, 6 abstentions, "VOLYA" "Bulgarian Rhodolists" "7 abstentions, non-members of PG" 4 abstentions. We move on to the unsupported proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev. Please, voting mode. Vote 52 MPs: for no, against 6, abstention 46. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "5 against," 24 abstentions, DPS 1 against, 11 abstentions, "VOLIA" "Bulgarian Rhodolists" "7 abstentions, non-members of PG 4 abstentions." Another unsupported offer by Christian Mitev for a new § 6. Please, voting mode. Vote 51 MPs: 1 against 7, abstention 43. By parliamentary groups:.BSP for Bulgaria... 1 for, 6 against and 23 abstentions;................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ We move on to the vote on Cornelia Ninova's unsupported proposal. Please, voting mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u599	Vote 56 MPs: 32, Against 9, abstention 15. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "32" for, "DPS 2 against," 11 abstentions, "VOLYA" "Bulgarian Rhodolists" "7 against, non-members of PG" 4 abstentions. We shall continue with the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 8, which shall become § 10. Here we will vote separately. 1, 2 and 3. Ms. Anna Alexandrova presented to us the proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Tzipov, which had found no place in the final version of § 8. I then announced to everyone that it will not be voted, as this is a Commission proposal, it is simply technically missed. However, I will now put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u600	Like point two?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u601	No. Then we'll move on.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u602	Can you read it?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u603	I'll read it. That's for t. Two, that's right. To create a new t. 2: "2." In § 20: a) Previous text becomes para. Shall I continue, Mr. Zarkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u604	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u605	You're on your way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u606	Points 1 and 3 want to be separate from point 3. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u607	I haven't gotten to them yet. I put to the vote Mrs. Alexandrova's proposal. 54 MPs voted: 22, against 5, abstention 27. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "5 against," 27 abstentions, DPS "11 for," "VOLYA" "Bulgarian Rhodolists" "7" for non-members in PG "4" for. We move on to § 8, which becomes § 10. We vote on it. 1. Vote 59 MPs: 59, no abstentions. According to parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "34" for, "DPS" for, "14" for, "VOLYA" for, "Bulgarian Rhodoljuktsi" for, "Unmembered in PG" for, "4" for. Point 2 has just been accepted, but it is still in the composition of § 8. We vote on it. 2. Vote 58 MPs: 25 against 4, abstention 29. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "4 against," 29 abstentions, DPS "14" for; "VOLIA" "Bulgarian Rhodolists" "7" for non-members in PG "4" for. Let's get on with it. 3, this is § 35. Please, voting mode. Vote 52 MPs: 52, no opposition and no abstentions. By parliamentary groups: "BSP" for Bulgaria " 31" for; DPS "12" for; "VOLIA" for "Bulgarian Rhodolists" "5" for; Non-members in PG "4" for. We continue with the entire text of § 8, which becomes § 10. We are voting on this. Four to the end. They voted 53 MPs: 21, against 3, abstention 29. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "3 against," 29 abstentions, DPS "11" for; "VOLYA" "Bulgarian Rhodolists" "6" for non-members in PG "4" for. We continue with the proposal of Anna Alexandrova: In § 11 the Annex to art. 3, p. Section I of point 1 15 "instead of the NPPK" is the CCC. In § 11 of the Annex to art. 3, p. 1, Section I is created t. 21 with text: ..21. Lawsuits under art. 437 of the Criminal Procedure Code for early release under art. 70 and 71 of the Penal Code. I think you understand. Please, voting mode. Vote 48 MPs: 44, none, abstention 4. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "27" for, 4 abstentions; DPS "13" for; "VOLIA" "Bulgarian Rhodolivtsi" (BSP for Bulgaria) is not available; non-members of PG "4" for. We are voting § 11 with a text on the Commission Report and Mrs Alexandrova's vote. 54 MPs voted: 54 against and abstention. According to parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "32" for, "DPS" for, "13" for, "VOLYA" for, "Bulgarian Rhodolists" (Bulgarian Rhodolists) / 5 for, "Unmembers of PG " 4 for. Final provisions. We vote on the name of the division. Vote 52 MPs: 51, against no, abstention 1. According to parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "29" for, against, no, 1 abstention, DPS 12 for, against and abstention none, "VOLIA," "Bulgarian Rhodolists" "6" for, against and abstention no, non-members of PG 4 for, against and abstention."
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u608	The next vote is § 9, which becomes § 12. This is the version proposed by the Commission. Please, voting mode. Vote 49 MPs: 49, against no, abstention 1. In parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "28" for, no, abstention 1, DPS 12 for, against and abstention none, "VOLYA" "Bulgarian Rhodolists" "5 for, against and abstentions none," Non-members of PG 4 for, against and abstentions none.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u609	The next proposal is for § 10, which becomes § 13. It's an importer's suggestion. Please, voting mode. 44 MPs voted: 44, no opposition and no abstentions. In the parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "26" for, against and abstentions none; "DPS" for, against and abstentions none; "VOLIA" for Bulgaria's Rodolivki" "5" for, against and abstentions none; Non-members of SG "3" for, against and abstentions none.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u610	A proposal from Christian Mitev, not supported by the Commission. Please, voting mode. They voted 53 MPs: for no, against 9, abstention 44. By parliamentary groups:.BSP for Bulgaria.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u611	We continue with § 11, which becomes § 14, § 12, which becomes § 15; the Commission's proposal to create § 16 with a text according to the Commission Report and the version proposed by the Commission for § 13, which becomes § 17. Please, voting mode. Vote 49 MPs: 44, none, abstention 5. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "25" for, no, 5 abstentions; "DPS" 10 for, against and abstentions none, "VOLYA," "Bulgarian Rhodolists" "6 for, against and abstentions no, non-members in PG" 3 for, against and abstentions no. That concludes the vote. Colleagues, thank you, good night and be healthy! I'm announcing a five-minute recess for the second group of voters to enter. [[After the break]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u612	I put to the vote Krasimir Tsipov's proposal for an amendment to the Decision to suspend the recalculation of the basic monthly remuneration of the MPs. Only the decision without a title. Please, voting mode. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. In the parliamentary groups: GERB 80 for, against and abstention there are no. Total: for 170, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted. The duty secretary, do you confirm the result? THE PARLIAMENT SECRETARS [[sides microphones]] : Yes, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u613	Affirmative. We continue with the State Budget Act. We only vote on the name of the law. Please, voting mode. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. By parliamentary groups: GERB 78 for, against and abstention there are no. "United Patriarchs ".. 17 for, against and abstentions there is no. Total: 129 against 37, abstention 1. Officers on duty, do you confirm? THE PARLIAMENT SECRETARS [[sides microphones]] : Yes, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u614	The offer is accepted. We continue with Ms. Ninova's proposal and a group of MPs. Please, voting mode. They voted 99 MPs: 1 against 78, abstention 20. By parliamentary groups: GERB 1 for, 74 against, 7 abstentions, United Patriarchs Total: 46 against 81, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u615	We vote § 1 by importer. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. By parliamentary groups: GERB 79 for, against and abstention none; Total: 119 against 46 abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u616	We vote § 1a § 1c, a proposal of Cornelia Ninova. They voted 99 MPs: for none, against 88, abstentioned 11. By parliamentary groups: GERB for no, 81 against, 1 abstention, United Patriarchs Total: 43 against 95, abstention 27. Moving on to § 2 by importer. By groups: GERB for 78, "United Patriarchs" for 17. Total: 119 against 43 abstentions. The motion is accepted. Paragraph 3 "We are voting on Rumen Gechev's proposal for editing of this. 2. The 99 MPs voted: for no, against 98, abstention 1. By parliamentary groups: GERB for no, against 82, abstentions none, Total: 42, against 105, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the version of § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-06.u617	Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. Total: 119 against 43 abstentions. The motion is accepted. We are voting § 4 by importer. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 116 against 44 abstentions. The motion is accepted. The secretaries confirm it. We are voting now paragraphs 5 and 6; Final provisions; paragraphs 7 and 8, including by importer, by voting on the name of the subdivision. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. Total: 120 against 43 abstentions. The motion is accepted. Paragraph 9 "We are voting on the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Nino. The 99 MPs voted: for no, against 98, abstention 1. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 45, against 105, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer for § 9. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. By groups: GERB for 82, "United Patriarchs" for 17. Total: 122, against 45, non-restraints. The motion is accepted. The last proposal of the Law.... the text of the importer for § 10. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 123 against 40, non-restraints. We're done with this bill. We move on to the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020. First, I vote on the name of the Law. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 152, no objection, abstention 1. The name is accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 1. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. According to parliamentary groups: GERB for 80, "United patriots" for 17. Total: 120, against 3, abstention 40. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the version of Paragraph 2 of the Commission Report. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 162, no objection and no abstention. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov. They voted 97 MPs: for no, against 20, abstention 77. Total: for 2, against 71, abstention 88. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Anna Alexandrova's editorial amendment in the version of § 3. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 118, no objection, abstention 43. The proposal for an editorial amendment has been accepted. I am now putting to the vote the amendment of § 3 with the so-called editorial amendment. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 120, no objection, abstention 39. The amendment to § 3 has been adopted by the relevant editorial amendment. We are now voting on the text of the importer for § 4. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. Total: 160, against and abstention no. The motion is accepted. We are on our way to the version of § 5 of the Commission Report. Please, voting mode. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 122, against 35, abstentions are gone. The motion is accepted. We're going to the editor's office at §6. The proposals of Philip Popov and Desislava Atanasova have been withdrawn. We are voting in the version of § 6. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 156, against and abstention no. The motion is accepted. Now we are going to the new § 7 with two editorial amendments: one Mr. Philip Popov has withdrawn it, the editorial amendment of Iskren Veselinov remains. Please, voting mode. They voted 97 MPs: 17 against 2, abstention 78. By parliamentary groups: GERB 1 for, 2 against, 78 abstentions; Total: 68, against 2, abstention 79. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the text of the new § 7. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 154, no opposition and no abstention. The motion is accepted. We are voting for the unsupported proposal of the National Representative Georgi Kolev. Vote 97 MPs: 16 against 4, abstention 77. By parliamentary groups: GERB 1 for, 4 against, 76 abstentions; Total: 23, against 55, abstention 79. The offer is not accepted. Colleagues, the front group and I did a re-vote. Rethinking this proposal by Mr. Kolev. Please, voting mode. They voted 96 MPs: 15 against 9, abstention 72. By parliamentary groups: GERB 8 against and 72 abstentions, United Patriarchs and 1 against. Total: 22, against 60, abstention 74. Colleagues, I'm putting a new §8 to the vote and the other paragraphs to be renumbered. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 158, for 158, against and abstention no. The motion is accepted. We move on to the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova. They voted 96 MPs: for no, 96 against, and no abstentions. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 159, for 40, against 103 and abstention 16. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the version of § 7, which becomes § 8, respectively, but it will be renumbered so that we do not get confused. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 145, for 118, no objection, abstention 37. The motion is accepted. We move on to the unsupported proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev. Vote 97 MPs: 16 for, no objection, abstention 81. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 158, 17 against 21 abstention 120. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the next proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Cornelia Ninova, not supported by the Commission. Vote 96 MPs: no, 96 against, and no abstentions. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 155, 35 against 103, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. I'm voting on the new § 9. Before that, we have an editorial amendment. First, the editorial amendment of the National Representative Julian Angelov. Vote 95 MPs: 17 for, against 2, 76 abstentions. By parliamentary groups: GERB 1 for, 2 against, 76 abstentions, Total: 156, 17 against 17, abstention 122. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the editorial amendment of Christian Mitev. Vote 95 MPs: 16 against 3, 76 abstentions. By parliamentary groups: GERB 3 against, 76 abstentions, Total: 153, 16 against 21, abstention 116. The offer is not accepted. We are voting to create a new § 9. Vote 96 MPs: 96 for, against and abstention there is no. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 156, for 119, against 6, abstention 31. The motion is accepted. We move on to the unsupported offer of Christian Mitev. Vote 97 MPs: for 16, there is no objection, abstention 81. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 154, 16 against 13, 125 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. Christian Mitev's second proposal, not supported by the Commission, is put to the vote. They voted 98 MPs: 16 against none, 81 abstentions. By parliamentary groups: GERB 1 for, 81 abstentions, Total: 150, 17 against 6, abstention 127. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Christian Mitev's proposal, not supported by the Commission. They voted 94 MPs: 19 against none, 75 abstentions. By parliamentary groups: GERB 3 for, 75 abstentions, Total: 145, for 20, against 7, abstention 118. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Cornelia Ninova's unsupported proposal. The 99 MPs voted: for no, against 98, abstention 1. By parliamentary groups: GERB 82 against; 1 abstention, Total: 155, 32 against 107 abstentions 16. The offer is not accepted. There is a proposal by Anna Alexandrova, a new point second to the version of § 8, which becomes § 10. That's where it's going to be renumbered. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 148, 116, against 5 and abstention 27. The motion is accepted. We vote them separately. First, we vote on point one. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 155, against and abstention no. Point one is accepted. Point two, we vote. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 121, against 4, abstention 29. The motion is accepted. Now we vote point three. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 146, against and abstention. The motion is accepted. We are now voting in the version of § 8, which becomes § 10, with the respective votes and editorial remarks made, the text in full. Vote 97 MPs: for 96, against none, abstention 1. By parliamentary groups: GERB 80 for, 1 abstention, Total: 117 MPs, against 3, abstention 30. Roger that. Now I'm voting a new § 11. We are voting for the editorial amendment of Anna Alexandrova. [[Noise and lines.]] First the editorial amendment, then the new § 11. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 141, no objection, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Now I'm voting on the new § 11. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: for 152, against and abstention there is no. I put the name of the division to the vote. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 144, no objection, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Now we are voting the version of § 9, which becomes § 12, which will be renumbered. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: for 144, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for § 10, which will be renumbered accordingly. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: for 136 against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Now a proposal by Christian Mitev, which the Commission does not support. Vote 97 MPs: 16 against 1, abstention 80. By parliamentary groups: GERB 1 against, 80 abstentions, from Total: 16 against 10, abstention 124. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the text of the importer for paragraphs 11, 12, a new § 16 and the version of § 13, respectively, paragraphs 14, 15, 16 and 17. [[Noise and lines.]] The editorial of § 13, which becomes § 17. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 139 without objection and 5 abstentions. Guys, that's it. Thank you. The next plenary session will be further notified if there are legislations tabled that require extraordinary assembly of the National Assembly. Thank you and have a good rest tonight. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
