ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that in the weekly Programme for the Work of the National Assembly an additional point will be included.. Draft decision on personal changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. I propose to be the first item in the Programme for today, 24 July 2020, and the other points provided for the meeting are renumbered accordingly. Please, voting mode. Cancel the vote and restart the system. Please vote on the proposed additional item in the Programme. Cancel the vote and clear the system. Please re-vote. Vote 206 MPs: 129 against 3, abstention 74. The motion is accepted. First Mr. Nikolov will do the procedure and then you, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the Council of Ministers, honourable Members! I'm making a procedural offer to drop the item. 2 on the agenda, and actually already t. Three, is it on the agenda today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. Please vote on Mr. Nikolov's procedure. Vote 207 MPs: 188 against 9, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Mr. Prodanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u4	Mrs. Chairman! We have just adopted a change in the agenda for today's plenary day, and item 1 has become: Personal changes in the composition of the Council of Ministers. Here I miss the one who proposes these changes, namely the Prime Minister, once again he hides and neglects the National Assembly institution. So please call the Prime Minister to come to the National Assembly to personally motivate the proposals for changes in his cabinet, to explain where his resignation is and when he will submit it. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Prodanov. Mr. Tzipov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u6	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen Deputy Prime Ministers, ministers! I will make two procedures, Mrs. President, item one of today's agenda to be broadcast on BNT 1 and BNR, and the second procedure is to be admitted to the Chamber of Ministers candidates Kostadin Angelov, Hristo Terziyski and Lachezar Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. In accordance with the first procedure for direct broadcasting of the meeting on BNT 1 and BNR, please vote. They voted 203 MPs: for 203, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. And now, under the second procedure,... for admission, please, voting mode. Vote 197 MPs: 139 against 45 abstentions 13. The motion is accepted. Invite the guests to the hall. Mrs. Daritkova, a statement on behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u8	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yesterday evening, once again, the President of the Republic of Bulgaria showed that it was an unwelcome and impossible task for him to use his constitutional obligations... [[Noise and excitement in BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u9	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u10	...and embody the unity of the nation. With a fist raised, with motive for mutiny and insults against the legally elected government of Bulgaria he called for the dissolution of the National Assembly. The calls of the Head of State from the square and of investigations into crimes oligarch on Facebook are suspiciously coincident. Instead of calling for law enforcement, the president supports illegal actions of civil disobedience. Moreover, a member of the Strategic Council of the President is detained for stopping the subway in Sofia. Incitement to crimes and violations of public order is also a crime, Mr. President! [[Applause to the right, noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Rumen Radev showed that parliament is not a convenient institution for him. During his entire term of office, he has consistently shown systematic disrespect to the institution, not attending it, even when our country's fate was decided in the introduction of the state of emergency and acceptance of... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u11	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u12	...the legislation to deal with the consequences [[(screating from BSP for Bulgaria.) (Screeting from BSP for Bulgaria) (Screeting from BSP for Bulgaria) (Screeting from BSP for Bulgaria) (Screeting from BSP for ……]] since the crisis...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u13	Quiet, please! The Quaestors, please ask your colleagues to remain silent! Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u14	There is not a single topic of public interest on which the President has encouraged dialogue between the institutions of the political parties, trade unions, employers' organizations and society. In the context of a pandemic of social and economic consequences, such as the world and the state have not known for the past decades, instead of accepting the hand of the government and seeking maximum agreement for decision making, Rumen Radev purposefully and systematically divides society, calls for hatred and rebellion and calls for disrespect [[screating from "BSP" for Bulgaria "Recruitment," resignation! "]] to the institutions. Yesterday he called...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u15	Mrs. Daritkova, hold on. [[(Scanded by the BSP for Bulgaria (Scanded by BSP for Bulgaria) (Scanded by BSP for Bulgaria) (Scanded by BSP for Bulgaria) (Scanded by BSP for Bulgaria) (Scanded ……]] Quiet, please! Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u16	...not only for the dissolution of the National Assembly, but also for a change in the Constitution. It is now high time to make clear its claims and its desire to introduce a presidential republic. Under the cover of hearing the voice of the people, he is in fact destroying democracy by disobeying the laws and the Constitution and practically calling for sole government. Rumen Radev is not limited to raising mistrust in the Bulgarian institutions, but often does this and criticizes even the European, apparently inspired by the model of different dictators. We of GERB strongly oppose the disregard of the institutions and laws of the country, the disrespect for the legitimately elected, in legal elections, government, the demands for early dissolution of the National Assembly and stand firm against the attempts to introduce a single and uncontrolled power in Bulgaria. [[(Applause on the right. The scandals from BSP for ……]] Out of the highest tribune in the parliamentary republic, we call on the MPs from all political parties to make their position clear to support or condemn President Radev's actions for the destruction of the institutions and their relations in Bulgaria. [[Extreme applause on the right. Knocking on the banks and chanting: Back off! Resignation! "BSP" for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u17	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. [[Noise, applause, chanting.]] Colleagues, order in the court! Colleagues, I'm asking for order in this Chamber so we can continue our work! Thank you, everyone. [[Noise and lines.]] I keep texting. [[Noise and lines.]] Procedure? Two procedures? Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Madam President, my procedure is with you. This week, this is the third time I've stood on this stage to invite the Prime Minister. And the declaration said that institutions should be respected, and this man we haven't seen in this room maybe a year and a half. [[Voices from GERB: "Eee! "]] And today, when a replacement of the cabinet is proposed, a replacement that does not satisfy the Bulgarian citizens does not satisfy the Members of the National Assembly in this part of the Chamber, it is not there. He's scared again, he's hiding again, and now he's standing there waiting for you, dear colleagues...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u19	What do you want, Mr. Svilensky?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u20	You fellow Members are waiting to do what he thinks will save his power. Madam President, adjourn the meeting, invite the Prime Minister in a polite manner... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u21	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u22	And I want the Prime Minister's resignation. [[Loud noise and lines.]] And I want that resignation! O-tav-ka! Along with you... [[The speaker's talking on off microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u23	Mr. Svilensky, I understand your proposal. This is the Council of Ministers, this is Mr. Tomislav Donchev, who is Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Zaharieva, also Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Nikolova, so... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u24	Madam Chairman, not always Mr. Tomislav Donchev use it for these actions! There's a Prime Minister. If we have to choose Mr. Donchev as Prime Minister and he will present the Council of Ministers. [[Radio, noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u25	Mr. Svilensky!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u26	Invite him politely. I know that the Prime Minister is very sensitive about how he is invited, here I invite him most respectfully, most respectfully: Mr. Borisov, come to the place which the Bulgarian National Assembly has appointed for you!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u27	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. [[The speaker's talking on off microphones.]] You were able to invite the Prime Minister, and I'm inviting him, too, so thank you. [[National Representative Georgi Svilenski speaks away from the microphones.]] You can't! Read your rules! Read your rules! [[Noise and lines.]] Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Here you go, Mr. Bojankov. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, let's hear from Mr. Bojankov. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u28	Madam President, under your leadership, you allow once again exceptional legal illiteracy to be poured out of this tribune. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u29	Mr. Bojankov, I will not be offended by the parliamentary tribune!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u30	If you think you can make a comment to your colleagues that the legitimate and legitimate are two different things. If colleagues say that this is the legitimately elected Bulgarian government, I remind them that it is chosen in the legal order. That's legal. If they think it is legitimate, it is legitimate that this government is adopted by the people. If you think you are a legitimate elected government, you have no connection to reality! [[Strong noise, applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u31	We continue with messages. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of an aircraft with its crew from the Air Force of Israel. The authorisation is valid from 23 to 26 July 2020 for a total of two flights and for the purpose of carrying passengers. The order issued is within the competence of the Minister of Defence, concerning the assessment of the military parameters of the country's transition to defence. The notification was received on 22 July 2020 with entry No 003-09-51 and was made available to the Defence Committee. Here you are, Mr. Angelov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! My procedure is in the manner of conduct, Madam President, and it is for the fact that there is no order in the Chamber when there is no call, the chanting, which is not normal for the work of the Bulgarian Parliament. Here we hear from our colleagues from BSP that they are chanting: [[Replyings and calls from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Because if they were listening to the calls of their president and the people on the street... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u33	Okay, what's the point?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u34	They shouldn't be in the gym! They were supposed to disband parliament, not be in a meeting, but for them the paycheck is more important than the resignation! [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u35	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: PROJECT OF THE PERSONAL CHANGE DECISION IN THE MINISTERAL COUNCIL OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Importer is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 84, p. 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I present to you the draft decision of the National Assembly on personal changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. With the draft decision I propose to the National Assembly to release Vladislav Ivanov Goranov as Minister of Finance, Mladen Naydenov Marinov as Minister of Interior, Emil Lyubenov Karanikov as Minister of Economy, Kiril Milanov Ananiev as Minister of Health and Nikolina Panayotova Angelkova as Minister of Tourism. I propose that the National Assembly elect Mariana Petkova Nikolova as Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy and Minister of Tourism; Kiril Milanov Ananiev as Minister of Finance; Hristo Bogoomilov Terziyski as Minister of Interior; Lachezar Dimitrov Borisov as Minister of Economy and Kostadin Georgiev Angelov as Minister of Health. I give the floor to the Deputy Prime Minister... [[Heckling]] Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u36	It is nice, since Mr. Borisov is hiding, to invite at least those who are taking the resignations from the same Mr. Borisov. That's how you use, you throw people out, at least let those ministers come here, who are no longer ministers, obviously, after the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u37	They're still ministers! They're still here!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u38	To come, to explain, to tell the parliament, the Bulgarian citizens why they want the resignation, perhaps to defend themselves. Invite them to come, or do they have a vacation with Mr. Borisov somewhere? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Chenchev, what is it? [[Radio.]] In the manner of conduct, perhaps? Here you go. Or some other procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers, Members of the Parliament! Dear Mrs. Karayancheva, my procedure is with you. I want to make an informed decision. I want to know where the Prime Minister is. [[Noise and lines.]] Because you didn't. [[Heckling]] I mean, did you invite him?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u41	There's no such procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u42	That's exactly the procedure, Mr. Lazarov! Because by now, it's been almost 25 minutes, we haven't been told where the Prime Minister is. You, Mrs. Karayancheva, are hiding it! Tell me why. In order not to explain, you're hiding it. Tell us where the Prime Minister is at the moment and why you do not invite him, do not inform the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u44	Do you know what you've become otherwise? In a radio guy!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u45	In what? In one...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u46	Radist! Telegraph reading where, who, how to change. Who's offering the shifts here? The changes, who's offering them? And where is it? Explain to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u47	Mr. Chenchev, I've informed the Prime Minister... [[National Representative Ivan Chenchev speaks away from the stands.]] This is the Council of Ministers. Mr. Donchev will present... [[(Reply of the National Representative Ivan Chenchev: "Wear responsibility!" Explain where he is!]] I've got it, Mr. Chenchev! [[Noise and lines.]] Here you go, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u48	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable fellow ministers! [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u49	Wait a minute, Mr. Donchev. [[(Noise, calls from BSP for Bulgaria.) Resignation!]] Thanks, guys. Let's hear from the deputy prime minister. Here you go, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u50	Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov resigned to the Prime Minister and asked to be released as a member of the government. [[Loud noise, screams from the left.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u51	Be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u52	In relation to the resigned and on the grounds of art. 84, p. 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria on behalf of the Prime Minister I present to your attention a proposal to the National Assembly for the release of the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov and for the election of Mr. Kiril Ananiev as Minister of Finance. Mr. Ananiev graduated from Finance and Credit at the University of National and World Economy, specialized in financing and socio-cultural expenditure at the UNWE and in the field of health reforms in Chicago, the United States of America. He started working at the Ministry of Finance in 1980. He went through all the expert positions to reach the Head of State and Deputy Minister of Finance in four governments between 1998 and 2017. He was also Secretary of Financial Policy in the Administration of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria and Advisor to the Political Office of the Prime Minister. He was elected Minister of Health in 2017 by the Forty-fourth National Assembly. On the basis of the above, I propose that the National Assembly adopt the draft decision on the election of Mr. Ananiev as Minister of Finance. Interior Minister Mladen Marinov resigned to the Prime Minister and asked to be released as a member of the government. In relation to the resigned and on the grounds of art. 84, p. 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria on behalf of the Prime Minister I present to your attention a proposal to the National Assembly for the release of the Minister of Interior Mr. Mladen Marinov and for the election of Mr. Hristo Terziyski as Minister of Interior. Chief Commissioner Terziyski has completed his higher education at the Technical University, Sofia. In 1996 he began his professional career as an officer in the sector of the Criminal Police (Criminal Police) in the Sixth District Department in Sofia. He then worked in the drug sector in the SDVR. He was later Deputy Head of the Department of Crime Police at the SDVR. In 2009 he became Deputy Director of the same Directorate, and since 2015 he headed the Directorate General of National Police. By order of the Minister of Interior in 2018 he was a temporary acting secretary of the Ministry of Interior. On the basis of the foregoing, I propose that the National Assembly adopt the draft decision on the election of Mr. Hristo Terziyski as Minister of the Interior. Economy Minister Emil Karanikolov resigned to the Prime Minister and asked to be released as a member of the government. In relation to the resigned and on the grounds of art. 84, p. 6 of the Constitution of the Republic on behalf of the Prime Minister I present to your attention a proposal to the National Assembly for the release of the Minister of Economy Emil Karanikov and for the election of Mr. Lachezar Borisov as Minister of Economy. Mr. Borisov received his higher education with a specialty from the University of National and World Economy, graduating with honours from Bachelor and Master. He received a second degree in accounting and finance from the Institute for postgraduate qualification at the same university. He specializes in Sustainable Development at the Venice International University and the Regional Environment Centre in Budapest, as well as in Accounting, Audit and Regulation at the World Bank. In career terms Mr. Borisov is established as a civil servant, winning a 2002 competition for chief expert at the Ministry of Economy. In 2006 he was head of the department, managing the Departments of Construction and Capital Markets and Management and Restructuring of the State Participation.He also served as Head of the Department of Investment Projects, International Programs and Marketing and Strategic Analysis and Forecasts. Undoubtedly, he has extensive experience in corporate governance, leading a number of private and state-owned companies in the field of industry, energy and financial management. Lachezar Borisov has been Deputy Minister of Economy since 2017. On the basis of the above, I propose that the National Assembly adopt the draft decision on the election of Mr. Borisov as Minister of Economy. Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev resigned to the Prime Minister of the Republic and asked to be released as a member of the government. In relation to the resigned on the grounds of art. 84, p. 6 of the Constitution of the Republic on behalf of the Prime Minister I present to your attention a proposal to the National Assembly for the release of the Minister of Health Mr. Ananiev and for the election of Mr. Kostadin Angelov as Minister of Health. Professor Dr. Kostadin Angelov is a Master of Medicine and Master of Public Health and Health Management. He holds a Master's degree in Finance from the University of National and World Economy. He began his professional career as a doctor from the emergency room of the Center for Emergency Medical Care. Since 2006, he has led the surgical team of the University Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment. Since then, he's been the CEO of the medical establishment. Since 2006, he has been a surgeon at the Clinic of Surgery at the same hospital. Head of the Department of Surgery at the Medical University of Sofia. Member of the Management Board of the Association of University Hospitals for Active Treatment in the Republic of Bulgaria. Since 2017, he has been an adviser to the National Assembly's Health Committee. Since 2019 he has been the chief co-ordinator of the Expert Surgery Council of the Ministry of Health. In 2015 he received the award "Professor Dr. Parashkev Stoyanov" for excellence in the field of medicine, science and teaching. Professor Dr. Angelov besides a proven doctor and scientist has extensive experience in the administration of the activities of various complex structures. On the basis of the above, I propose that the National Assembly adopt the draft decision on the election of Mr. Kostadin Angelov as Minister of Health. Tourism Minister Nikolina Angelkova resigned to the Prime Minister and wished to be released as a member of the government. In relation to the resigned and on the grounds of art. 84, p. 6 of the Constitution of the Republic on behalf of the Prime Minister I present to your attention a proposal to the National Assembly for the release of the Minister of Tourism Mrs. Angelkova and for the election of Ms. Mariana Nikolova as Minister of Tourism. Mrs. Nikolova is a Master in Law, holds a Master's degree in Public Administration and Administrative Practices and Law of the European Union. He has extensive experience in the public sector. She has taken senior positions as Director of the Legal Regulatory Activities Directorate at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, as well as Head of the Legal and Legal Protection Department at the National Electricity Company. She worked at the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision of the Ministry of Economy. Since 2018 he is Head of the political cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mr. Simeonov. In 2018, she was elected by the Forty-fourth National Assembly as Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy. On the basis of the above, I propose that the National Assembly adopt the draft decision on the election of Ms. Mariana Nikolova as Minister of Tourism. Thank you. [[(Extremely shouts:) More! More! More! and banging on the banks from BSP for Bulgaria.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u53	Thank you, dear Mr. Donchev. You're welcome to join us in the manner of conduct. Mr. Manev, I've hardly ever led. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u54	Madam President, honourable Members! What's going on in this room right now is a shame! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Only this shame cannot be avoided when there are fists in this room, but in the streets and the president allows himself to wave his fists!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u55	The way you run it, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u56	But it's time to sober up, and it's time to stop this. It's time to stop all this! And the responsibility is not only yours, but I turn to you: this must stop!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u57	Thank you, Mr. Manev. [[Voices from the BSP for Bulgaria Resign! Resignation! and banging on banks.]] Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Now you have the tribune to express your opinions..................... come in............................................................................... Are there gonna be speeches? Mr. Yankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Ministers, honourable Members of Parliament! Why are you making these changes, Mr. Borisov? You are not in the Chamber, but all questions will be for you only until and after your resignation. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria "Why isn't it in the hall?"]] When did you plan this? When did you hear the inner voice of insight or something rather deafening under your windows?! You have at least as many failed ministers. Why aren't you changing them? Or will there be more instalments? And your resignation when?! Don't answer that. The answer doesn't matter. It doesn't matter just as much as the entire operation of your attempt to strengthen your ruble power. For the Ministry of Tourism it is clear that Valeri Simeonov won. His conflict with Angelkova was a long, epic battle and in twelve without five he managed to conquer his old ministry. It's more interesting to take Goranov out. It would have made sense to happen through the procedure, like that of former Eco Minister Neno Dimov. 700 million, 67 million, all figures that people expect to take responsibility for, retribution. That's why you're listening:..Omission!..so that a new government will come and nothing will be covered up. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] You want to survive to the regular elections. One thing you do not understand is that the only way to legitimize any participation in the subsequent political life is if the elections are not held by GERB. How long do you want to catalyze this tension? The intransigence of young people is justified. Half their lives passed with your faces and techniques and instead of more trust and stability, you caused them a growing resentment that led them to the squares. For them, replacing this or that minister doesn't mean anything. They perceive both the fired and the newly proposed ministers, not in their personal capacity, but as part of your failed government. Minister Mladenov in just a week wiped out his entire professional career with the beaten boy behind the columns and this paradox in "Rosenets."
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u59	Who is Minister Mladenov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u60	It's always the superior's responsibility. Now you will quickly use another professional in the name of your political doom. The public needs these people as police officers, so don't waste them as politicians.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u61	Who do you mean?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u62	What can a new minister do in a few months in the crash of health care? Even because of the health of the people, this new beginning is needed....a restart and a new full mandate with a government without you. [[GERB noise and lines]] With an idea for health reform. As for Mr. Ananiev's return to the Ministry of Finance, it would be more logical to replace Minister Banov. So you would also emphasize the universality of Mr. Ananiev, and to further improve the culture, and to brighten your labor deficit. For Minister Karanikolov, only what came out of the Bulgarian Development Bank would be a reason for not taking the lead in any normal country, but a client of other institutions. A parliamentary committee is committed to investigating the leak of millions for which it is directly responsible. Here is what has imposed these changes on them actions and circumstances that have made their remaining incompatible with your survival. You think that gives you a breath of air. No, that makes it obvious how easily expendable you are. I will monitor with particular interest the changes in the structures in the departments that will follow after they have new leaders. There they will find the true back of their interests, clear and silent partnerships, the fifth column to provide a transitional period. Borisov spoke of political consequences. These consequences are inevitable, but insufficient. Retribution is inevitable. Today it is time to think about the future, because more slowly or suddenly, tomorrow or in a month's time you are about to leave. Come to your senses! Surprise us, do it now, resign! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u63	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Gechev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u64	Madam President, honourable Members! As always, stick to the facts and only the facts. The first problem is that the fiscal policy, which the Minister, the Ministry and the government conducted, does not correspond to European practices, trends and European approaches. For example, Mr. Goranov has insisted for three or four years now, if you include the previous mandates, more that he and the government will conduct a policy of reducing the share of budget expenditure in gross domestic product. And what are the facts, colleagues? With an average share of budget revenues around 44. 45% of the gross domestic product in other European countries, the Minister of Finance and his colleagues from the Council of Ministers conduct a policy in the opposite direction.. 10% lower, with a tendency to decrease with the budget being implemented in 2020 and with the intention to maintain this share in the coming years. This means that the Bulgarian budget does not include 10 billion. BGN, which are underfinancing of the public sectors, all of which are in deficit of funds for the realization of their programs. Not to mention the effectiveness of realization and especially the fact that such a policy puts the country in severe conditions now under COVID-19. Because this is where the Ministry of Finance and the government made a gross mistake. What are the facts? 4% of gross domestic product allocates Bulgaria to an average of 10% of EU member states in three or four years. Twice and a half less than the European Union first, and the results are there. Secondly, measures were delayed by four or five months fatally and most of the Bulgarian companies, which were having difficulties, have already gone bankrupt. What will the government do now? From Monday, he has yet to offer us a program. Other EU member states actively invested through a public-private partnership, helping whole groups of the population, groups of companies and managed to save a significant part of their economy. Now the government after the changes will try to achieve the effect of vampireism the companies that have already gone bankrupt have yet to revive them. In addition, honourable Members, in addition to the fact that the government is pursuing a policy contrary to Europeans in terms of the role of the budget in the development of the economy, the second feature that this government and this finance minister have been conducting is the policy of continuing the flat tax for ten years now. What's with the flat tax policy? We are looking at Eurostat - social polarization according to Eurostat in Bulgaria is growing. Ginny's index named after the Italian economist is getting worse in Bulgaria as a result of which fewer people own most of the wealth. According to Eurostat, Bulgarian society is the most polarised in the European Union. The Minister of Finance offers us to maintain a system that has long been maintained by Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan and Mongolia, instead of the system of Germany, France, Italy and Spain. The European Union is now insisting on coordination and step-by-step harmonisation of tax legislation. And now the countries with progressive taxation are spending more money on the Programme, which will be voted by the European Union. I'm opening the clamp......................................................of fellows from the government, stop misleading society! You published numbers with some billions coming to Bulgaria before the decision of the European Commission. Yesterday there were fanfares about the decisions of the European Commission, last night they were rejected by the European Parliament and the negotiations began again. So far, nothing has been voted by the European Parliament, as unlike Bulgaria, money is decided not by the President of the European Commission, respectively by the Prime Minister in Bulgaria, but is decided by a collective body of the European Parliament. With regard to the Minister of Finance and the National Revenue Agency. We have already discussed here, honourable Members, the great tragedies of the National Revenue Agency. The first huge foul of five million files of Bulgarian citizens leaked with all their data, of over 800,000 companies, and here it is not just a matter of data leaking and tax numbers or the number of individuals, it is a matter of leaking information of hundreds of thousands of companies and violating the principles of market competition. In addition, it turned out that the breakthrough in the NRA was carried out for a clear reason - 70 per cent of those employed in the NRA department, who are responsible for countering so-called piracy, are with strange education - metallurs, nuclear power, navigators and 30% have completed software, completed electronics. The biggest foul of recent months, for which the Minister of Finance must necessarily go, and his resignation has been properly requested, is the tragedy with the State Gambling Commission and the 700 million drained. lv. I want to finish with two short paragraphs. First of all, what is not acceptable by the Minister of Finance that after the stunt of questions we asked him, honourable Members, in every reply, he entered into new lies or written. He responded to me in writing with a stamp and a petition. He lied to us that he had formed an expert group to comply with the law on 5 October 2014. He replied to me that he had not formed any group. He hasn't given any order to the Minister of Finance. Secondly, he informed us that they had developed a new strategy. I asked him for his strategy. Mr. Minister, give us this strategy to use it in Parliament and in the Budget Committee for future work. He lied about issuing an order to form such a group, lied about developing a strategy. In a word, he's lying about the umbrella. The facts: The Court of Auditors has verified, colleagues, that the National Revenue Agency for a five-year period has not carried out any verification of the State Gambling Commission and Mr. Goranov was Chairman of the Board of Directors of the NRA. The State and Financial Inspection Agency has not carried out any verification of the State Gambling Commission over the five-year period. Ten, fifteen days ago, the Court of Auditors submitted data to the NRA that there was no such verification of the State Gambling Commission, and also the Court of Auditors of Bulgaria provided data that the National Revenue Agency and the U.S.J. and the Gambling Commission, representing the entire government in fact, for five years allowed a group of companies, many private sector companies not to pay their dues and one company to pay them. What firm? The Bulgarian Sports Totalizer? the state company. Finally, Customs. Big adventures with Bulgarian customs. In the Bulgarian territorial waters, ghost ships appeared as in the Bermuda Triangle. Bulgarian national television broadcasts with ships landing full of oil. There are no customs there, there are no border troops emerging in the dark, in the middle of the night, really like in the Bermuda Triangle. These are the customs of Bulgaria. What are the facts? Two and a half months ago OLAF published Bulgaria's verification report from the end of 2019 on four indicators. First indicator.......................................................................................................................... Assessment of the work of the Republic of Bulgaria by the European Commission: weak 2! Resignation and good luck! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u65	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The major renovation of the government is not measured by the amount of resignations, but by the reasons for the proposed changes. The Minister of Economy is being released because, I quote the Prime Minister: I started to hear about things that are happening there in connection with the bonuses given out, so-called, or grants in the Ministry of Economy, end of quote. This is how a minister is released, not with clear and concrete motives, but by rumors. Otherwise, in the Prime Minister's words, I quote again: "He is doing very well in many spheres. On the contrary, just a few days ago, when we saw the vote of no confidence to fight corruption, we gave clear examples of how the Ministry of Economy gave concession to individuals other than those who officially manage it. We pointed out the cases in which the Bulgarian Development Bank, whose principal is the Ministry of Economy, in the midst of the CIVID epidemic, released 75 million. lv. to a company that collects bad loans. Seventy-five million, which could have gone to the Bulgarian production in support of small and medium-sized enterprises, went into the pockets of a collector's company. We also set a second example in which the Bulgarian Development Bank gave 140 million. lv. State money to First Investment Bank to help it because it has made two unsuccessful attempts to sell shares on the market. The market decides one thing, and the Bulgarian Development Bank and the Ministry of Economy, which supposedly have to protect market principles, decide another and buy shares of the bank under conditions that at this time do not correspond to the market situation. Lots of contradictions. One thing is certain, however, is that it is obvious that Minister Karanikolov has not made the decision on these transactions without the Prime Minister's consent. And the one who must bear the political responsibility for the work of this ministry is precisely the prime minister. Whatever it is, the main motive for changing a minister for me can only be the need for a change in his sectoral policy. But tell me, what change can we expect when a minister goes away and his former replacement is proposed in his place? It is clear that there will be no change in policy. Both Karanikolov and Lachezar Borisov will continue to follow the orders given to them and any attempts by the Prime Minister to hide his own dependencies behind the resignations of his ministers are simply imitation changes. The aim of today's actions of the prime minister is not to correct his mistakes in his economic policy, as he clearly does not see one, but to survive at all costs without regard to the consequences for the economy. Your actions will not dissuade the young people who protest outside, and therefore they want your resignation, Mr. Borisov!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u67	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. - What's the line? I won't. Come in, Mr. Nikolov. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, fellow Members! Frankly, I didn't want to take part in the speeches, but I was provoked by the so-called resignation from the left. I've been thinking about what would happen if this resignation was really, for God's sake, filed? What's gonna happen? I started thinking and thinking, and because I'm also watching the media, which very hardly show the protest, the young, the so-called city right, the village left, the ultrave, ultraright, all kinds of, many colors, and trying to consolidate around a fist, which reminded me of some footage of a partisan who came into Sofia and also showed a fist. Maybe some people live on Che Guevara. Anyway, something revolutionary is trying to create. I've been thinking about your desire to resign. And I say to myself, this Mr. Radev, who represents the protests, a revolutionary, is going to make some kind of office. But if these are a threesome, if they're a trio, I don't know exactly what they are, they said they were right. These right-wing, for example, do not want to continue nuclear power plant Belene, they do not want to continue respectively Balkan flow. You, as far as I know, definitely want to continue. And I wonder, Mr. Radev, who will he put as Minister of Energy? [[(Replys from BSP for Bulgaria]] Yours or theirs? Where will you consolidate around these ministers? The other thing I'm thinking about is tax policy. These so-called right, ultraright, city right, as far as I know, don't want to raise taxes and fees in any way, even if they can be reduced because that's really what the philosophy of the right is. Yeah, but you want something else. And I wonder who the Minister of Finance is going to put up? Yours or theirs? In the end, which ideology will be formed around which economic, philosophical ideology will this service government, which will, supposedly, gather people's desire to change the so-called agenda and be able, with full hands, to draw the goods of what you now believe is being distributed in the dark? That's what I'm wondering. What about the other ministers? If we start to think about sectoral policies, I don't see touch points, although your contact points, in reality, were evident in local elections. We've seen that you're collaborating with the so-called city right, and you're choosing mayors. Did we see any good from that thing? Nowhere in any district did we see better than this. On the contrary, people are more dissatisfied. Most likely people will be lied to now. The only thing stopping this government from resigning is responsibility. The responsibility not to get into chaos, the responsibility of the fight you have in your party now as a leader and so on, to move into the country. And this quarrel will ultimately lead not to prosperity, but to an destruction of the Bulgarian society and to the removal of Bulgaria from the path we have entered. That is why I think that this resignation must not be submitted. We absolutely must not stand behind the fist, but we must stand behind the extended hand. We extend our hand and with this government repair we give our goals. So please, colleagues, don't shout out for a release, because you don't know what this will bring you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u69	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. [[Scanding from the BSP for Bulgaria "Omission," resignation! "Trapping on banks from BSP for Bulgaria".]] - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Yordanov. Increase group time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u70	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! An extremely unpleasant impression makes the behavior of a Bulgarian general who abandons his army in battle and hides somewhere behind the back of his officers. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB. Announcements from the BSP for Bulgaria "Bravo!" Partly applause.]] Today the Prime Minister of Bulgaria put a big, nice black cross on the programming desire of his government, which was declared in the party's election platform. Today and from here on, the Bulgarian government has only one behavior. If we can somehow push ourselves, we can add up to the date of the regular parliamentary elections. In commercial law, honourable Members, there is a term for release from responsibility. Today we cannot discharge the Minister of Health for the failed health reform. Why? Models were declared, it came to a pattern and it was stopped. We need to get a clear answer why, when Mr. Borisov's first and second minister said that Bulgarian healthcare needs radical reform, everything was stopped? Today, we cannot discharge the Minister of Health for the failure to enter into action of the Electronic Information Health System, what is the cornerstone, the basis of any reform in the field of health. [[Reply from Minister Kiril Ananiev.]] Today we cannot release the Minister of Health from the failed European draft for emergency aid reform. Why can't we spend the money Europe has given us, and why do we want more money when we can't use it?! [[(Replication by Minister Kiril Ananiev:]] To be brief, today we cannot free the Minister of Health from what happened to the children's hospital, because with this behavior we children's hospital will not have. Because we didn't hear the voice of those who asked for the children's hospital the public committee, we didn't hear them and we took another path. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u71	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u72	A statement, Mr. Svilensky? Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u73	Thank you, Madam President. First, I ask you to make a remark to Minister Ananiev not to call out from the crib...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u74	I've made such a remark already, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u75	...because it is unacceptable for a retired minister to grant qualifications to MPs. Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u76	Is this the way it's supposed to be?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u77	It's not the way it's supposed to be, it's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u78	Procedure, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u79	It's already 10:02, the Prime Minister's gone. On behalf of the parliamentary group, we respectfully invite him to come to plenary. For this reason, we want a 30-minute break so that it can move from the Council of Ministers to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u80	Fifteen minutes rest on behalf of a parliamentary group. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Fifteen-minute break! [[Loud noise.]] Read the Constitution and Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Fifteen-minute break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u81	Colleagues, please continue the debate. [[(Replication by BSP for Bulgaria]] Who wants a procedure? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Wait, I'll tell you. Dear colleagues, I have spoken with the Prime Minister. He won't be able to make it, so the three deputy prime ministers are here. [[(Voices from the BSP for Bulgaria Resign! Resignation!]] I would like to remind you of the Rules and the Constitution, which say that there is no explicit requirement in both the Constitution and the Rules for the Prime Minister's presence. He makes his changes to the Council of Ministers, but there is no obstacle for Mr. Donchev as Deputy Prime Minister to present them. For this reason, all three Deputy Prime Ministers are here, so we continue with the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mrs. Ninova, come in for a statement. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Please be quiet in this room, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u82	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, MPs of the ruling majority! You did not hear the voice of the people who are in the streets and squares of Bulgaria. What do they want and we want from the opposition? The resignation of Borisov and the cardinal change of the mafia-olligarchic model under which he manages his government, a change with the rule of law and the rule of law. [[Comments from GERB: "Enough! "]] What are you doing today, what does Borisov propose? Staying Borisov and preserving the model. You're suggesting imitation change, a mimicry with the resignation of ministers. In four years we have watched twelve series of this same film, the thirteenth one could be fatal to the government and the ruling majority. Every time there's a problem, there's a fuse burning to save the system. Dear governors, you have a mantra it is not four years old, it is ten years old, for your morality that even in doubt of corruption you release ministers. Yes, you're replacing ministers in suspicions of corruption to save corruption in order to preserve the system. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Why are you doing this now? First option, from a week ago: because those released ministers are ministers of the DPS, according to the Prime Minister. Second option, from that day: you release Goranov for gambling, Karanikolov for some money that was being given away, and Minister Mladenov for the police violence. And third option, starting today. [[GERB noise and lines]] who we heard from Deputy Prime Minister Donchev...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u83	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u84	...no motive. So, once for the DPS, once for suspicions of corruption and once without motive. Then what are the real motives? The motive is fear, fear of the people who protest, and fear of seeking responsibility. What's the target? Survival at all costs, regardless of what the state will pay and what your survival will cost the people. Dear Bulgarians, do you think that the government that seeks only its survival is afraid of you and of seeking justice and retribution can offer you a future? They explain to us why they shouldn't leave. There will be instability, there will be a crisis. The leaders themselves have been instability for four years over 25 spectacular corruption scandals. It's instability! There was going to be a crisis. With their incompetence and inconsistent policy in all sectors of governance, they are a source of crisis and health and social and economic, all of them. They're explaining why they shouldn't go. We want to tell you why we need to not make lobby legislation through the back door of parliament, but quality laws in the interests of citizens; in order not to use institutions for theft and as a bat, but to serve you people; in order not to hire novices who sign and burn like fuses, but brave and unblemished people; in order not to use propaganda, repression and fear to keep you in submission, but to be free Bulgarians. This brings us all together with a different idea of tax policy, energy policy, social policy. It unites us first the goal of breaking down the mafia-oligaric model of the parallel state and the backstage in the management of Boyko Borisov and building of Bulgaria from the beginning by smart, competent, professional and honest people. Don't stop, Bulgarians, don't stop protesting! If there is one great success of everything we have done in the last four years and you in the past years, it is that Bulgaria has been rid of fear and apathy that the young, free and brave have shown that their parents, grandparents and grandfathers stood next to them! The Bulgarian people asked for their freedom from the Mafia, asked for their country from the backstage and will take it back! Let's keep it together! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u85	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I closed the debate, Mr. Genov. [[Applause from GERB.]] Let's move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u86	In the manner of conduct, may I? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u87	After the vote, Mr. Ermenkov, you will have the right to a negative vote if you do not support the ministers. [[Relations from the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov.]] Let us wait, Mr. Ermenkov, to read the decision, to vote, and I will give you the floor for the first negative vote, if you vote negatively, you can support the ministers, I do not know. Project! DECISION for personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in connection with the Decision of the National Assembly on the Election of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 4 May 2017, Decision of the National Assembly on Personal Changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 10 November 2017, Decision of the National Assembly on Personal Changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 20 September 2018, Decision of the National Assembly on Personal Changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 21 November 2018, Decision of the National Assembly on Personal Changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 20 December 2018, Decision of the National Assembly on Personal Changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 5 April 2019, Decision of the National Assembly on Personnel Changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 15 May 2019, Decision of the National Assembly on Personnel Changes in the Council of the Republic of Bulgaria of Bulgaria of 15 January 2020. HAS DECIDED Releases Vladislav Ivanov Goranov as Minister of Finance, Mladen Naydenov Marinov as Minister of Interior, Emil Lyubenov Karaniklov as Minister of Economy, Kiril Milanov Ananiev as Minister of Health, Nikolina Panayotova Angelkova as Minister of Tourism. He elected Mariana Petkova Nikolova Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy and Minister of Tourism, Kiril Milanov Ananiev as Minister of Finance, Hristo Bogoomilov Terziyski as Minister of Interior, Lachezar Dimitrov Borisov as Minister of Economy, Kostadin Georgiev Angelov as Minister of Health. Please, voting mode. Vote 205 MPs: 116 against 89, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Mr. Ermenkov, negative vote. Here you go. [[Scanded "Octification" by "BSP" for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u88	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted negatively because, once again, we are witnessing that the ruling majority and its government live in a parallel world, in a parallel country that has nothing to do with what is happening to people, what people want, is not hearing at all. Moreover, this ruling majority is really trying to bring in the dividing lines and this government is trying. Yes, they exist, these are the dividing lines between your government, which supports the mafia, which supports the goons, and the people who are on the street! And this people with these results will sweep you out of here! Thank you! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u89	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Mr. Genov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u90	Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members, honourable President! I did not support this government and my main motive was Mr. Borisov's statement a few days ago. Here I heard in this House that my colleague Nikolov was concerned about President Radev's personnel policy so that I could refresh the memory of my colleagues. A few days ago, Prime Minister Borisov said that someone named Shishi, I don't know who that person is, I don't know him. [[(Shouting ……]] He ordered President Radev's office. Who was the finance minister in President Radev's office? As the Prime Minister, I am now afraid that the same finance minister is in this cabinet, and there are questions in me as to whether the one who does not know it has not released the long hand and ordered this cabinet. So that was my main motive for not supporting this change in government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u91	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. Is there a third negative vote? Mr. Gokov. [[National Representative Valentin Nikolov wants the floor for a personal explanation.]] Do you have a procedure? It's a personal explanation. Let's finish the negative votes then.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u92	Dear Madam President, dear Ministers! I voted against it because the resignation of four or five ministers is a logical and necessary move by Borisov, but it is not enough. We need the resignation of the entire government. I voted against it because the Rockades themselves in the government are no surprise, but the expectations of society are different. Because the whole society is known that corruption is a state policy in the government of Borisov. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] You think this will save you, but I don't think it will. I also voted against it because I have many questions on the new proposals. For example, I will read you the reasons for the release of Mladen Marinov. I am going to read them right now: "Young Marinov, we are changing it, because some of the police's actions during the protest are definitely not in line with my understanding of how to treat protesters people. Second, because of the fact that the people who had nothing to do with this process had to ensure that it was carried out so that such scandals and problems would not arise, and in the end people who had nothing to do with it. The answer is: Chief Commissioner Hristo Terziyski. And that follows the question: as Director of the Directorate General, is he responsible for the violence over the protests or not? Is he responsible for Rosenets or not? And what's the change in the case? That is the question that has led me to vote against. And a second question: people protest against this government, including the backstage, and about how decisions are made in the coalition, the hidden, opaque, unmotivated decisions in the ruling coalition. And the question follows: what is Mrs. Angelkova's transgression, except that she does not like Valeri Simeonov? What difference does it have, with what pò it harms the image of the government by the other ministers that Borisov changes it? Or does someone want to master tourism? [[(Comments from GERB:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u93	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Time. Thank you. Time's over. Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u94	Well, three minutes is...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u95	Two minutes. [[The National Representative Georgi Gokov spoke with microphones off.]] Thank you, Mr. Gokov. There was a personal explanation. Okay, here's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Because they mentioned my name and said... I'm not so excited that my name has been mentioned, but that something we haven't agreed on, so I wanted to clarify and I'm affected. The people said, "Did I speak wrong, did you listen wrong?" You have seen the difference between what you confess and what we confess. You are talking about personnel policy and you are interested in who will be on this ministry or that ministry, because we know the lists when it was the previous service government, you had prepared them. So that's the difference. You care about who, and we care about what he does and what policy he confesses! That was my talk, in knowing who you're going to partner with and who you're going to be involved with. We are interested in making the policies so that Bulgaria is on the right path, namely to Europe, the Euro-Atlantic orientation and prosperity of the people. These are the three things we confess. And you're interested in who's going to be the minister. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u97	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Dear new ministers, come in. Please, all rise. You're welcome to take an oath. [[Everyone gets up.]] Here you go. You can take off your masks. Please repeat after me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u98	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u99	Congratulations and good luck! Thank you, fellow Members! [[Scanded "Good-bye" by BSP for Bulgaria.]] Thank you, everyone. Good luck to the new ministers. Please come in for a procedure. Where are you going to say goodbye?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u100	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask for a procedure to reduce the deadline for proposals between the first and second votes under the Law on Local Taxes and Fees to four days.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u101	Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 162 MPs: 106, against 51, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that the following additional item be included in the weekly Programme for the Work of the National Assembly: I suggest the point be second after the Ratification. Please vote: They voted 144 MPs: 127, against 8, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE CHANGE OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECOGNITION AND DEVELOPMENT (the "WorlD') FOR THE SUPPORT OF THE OFFICE OF THE WORLD BANK IN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA OF 12 APRIL 2019 Who's gonna introduce us to the report? Mrs. Ilieva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u102	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I would like to present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the "World Bank') on the provision of support for the World Bank Office in the Republic of Bulgaria on 12 April 2019, No 002-02-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 June 2020. At a meeting held on 16 July 2020, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Rositsa Velkova. On 12 May 2020, an amendment to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development was signed to provide support for the World Bank Office in the Republic of Bulgaria (Agreement of 12 April 2019) subject to subsequent ratification by the National Assembly. The agreement was ratified by the National Assembly by a law promulgated in the Official Journal. 38 from 2019 and entered into force on 10 May 2019. The agreement provides for financial support from the Bulgarian side of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the long-term positioning and functioning of the World Bank Office for shared services and other functions in Sofia for its period of operation on the territory of the country. The Shared Services Office was opened on 18 July 2019. Following the launch of its activities, the Bank's management has shown interest in positioning employees working in other areas besides those originally envisaged in the information technology sector, which will lead to an extension of the spectrum of activities and services provided by the Office in Sofia. It is also envisaged that teams of the Financial Department, bodies related to public procurement, human resources and corporate security, as well as the entire Permanent Representation of the Bank, will be located in the long-term location. The number of employees is expected to exceed the planned 300. This requires the need to increase the rental areas in the long-term location by 650 sq. m. The amendment provides for a change of point. 1 paragraph 1 of Annex C to the m. "supplied' of "six hundred and fifty-six hundred and fifty-fifty' sq. m. is equal to or greater than 100 m/s2. According to the Bank's calculations, the initial investment costs for the expansion of the Office are expected to amount to 515 thousand. EUR, which is planned to be implemented in 2021. The current expenditure on real estate for a period of five years for the period from 2021 to 2025 is expected to be around 713 thousand. Euros. In accordance with the practice applied by the World Bank with regard to such international contracts, the Parties undertake to maintain the confidential nature of the document and none of them may disclose the Agreement or its conditions outside their structures without the prior written consent of the other Party. In this regard, on the basis of art. 25, para. 2 of the International Contracts Act of the Republic of Bulgaria The Council of Ministers proposes that the National Assembly, by means of the ratification bill, order the amendment of the Agreement not to be published in the Official Journal. The draft law is not related to the transposition of European Union acts. After the discussion of the Draft was held, a vote was held which ended with the following results: 19 votes for the Council, without abstention and abstention, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote the Draft for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the World Bank) to provide support for the World Bank Office in the Republic of Bulgaria on 12 April 2019, No 002-02-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 June 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u103	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ilieva. Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote a bill for ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development ("World Bank') on providing support for the World Bank's Office in the Republic of Bulgaria on 12 April 2019, No 002-02-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 June 2020. They voted 111 MPs: 102, against 1, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Ilieva, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u104	Thank you, Madam President. I am also proposing a review of the Bill at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u105	Please vote on Mrs. Ilieva's procedure. 110 MPs voted: 103, against 2, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Ilieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u106	Project! LAW on the ratification of the Amendment of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development ( Art. 1. It ratifies the amendment of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the "World Bank') to provide support for the World Bank Office in the Republic of Bulgaria on 12 April 2019, signed on 12 May 2020. Art. 2. Orders on grounds of art. 25, para. 2 of the International Contracts Act of the Republic of Bulgaria The amendment of the Agreement under art. 1 shall not be promulgated in the Official Journal
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u107	Statements? I can't see. I shall put the name of the Law to the vote, art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2. Vote 112 MPs: 106, against 3, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. And the last item on today's agenda: TERMINATION OF A PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE. An application was received from Vladislav Ivanov Goranov, MP from the Twenty-fourth Election Region of Sofia: "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution, the Republic of Bulgaria, I resign as MP elected in the mandate of the 44th National Assembly. I would like to be terminated as a Member of the National Assembly with a decision. Service: Project! DECISION terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Ends Vladislav Ivanov Goranov's authority as a MP from the Twenty-fourth Election Region of Sofia. Please, mode of... What's the statement? I'm sorry. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Here you are, Mr. Ermenkov. We would love to hear your speech. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u108	I do have a point, don't I?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u109	Of course you do.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u110	Mrs. Chairman...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u111	Cancel the vote, there's a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u112	I take note of Mr. Goranov's reluctance to be in parliament. I would remind you that in 2014 this happened in the same way and he gave up his presence here in Parliament. According to Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, he had told him, I quote: "My colleagues became millionaires, and I stood in this room for some small money. My days go by pointlessly. Was the fact that he was deprived of the opportunity to collect some money as a minister of finance...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u113	Mr. Ermenkov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u114	...and has increased his salary in some other way, as the minister's salary is lower than our salary, is the reason he once again leaves parliament? Or there is another reason, he says: "If there was any sense as an expert, to stay in parliament, but now there is nothing in Parliament related to politics and expertise. " Is this the second reason why Mr. Goranov does not want to be a member of parliament? [[GERB screams]] , and most likely that you can not find one with those among whom you sit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u115	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote the draft decision which I have just read to you "to suspend the powers of the MP Vladislav Goranov." They voted 113 MPs: 104, against 2, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we're not gonna wait until 11:00, so we're gonna continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. There are no new requests for the period from 17 to 23 July 2020. Communication on the parliamentary control of personal changes to the Council of Ministers: In connection with the Decision on Personal Changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria, adopted on 24 July 2020, MPs who are not answerable to questions and questions asked to the elected ministers will receive oral or written answers from the newly elected members of the Council of Ministers accordingly. According to the parliamentary practice of the newly elected ministers, time is given to get acquainted with the questions and questions asked, to prepare their answers and to plan their participation in the plenary session for parliamentary control on 31 July 2020. Written answers from: - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Anton Kutev; - Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mariana Nikolova on a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Desislava Taneva on four questions from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Alexander Sabanov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Dessislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Smilyana Nieva; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the MPs Anna Slavova and Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova. We're moving on to parliamentary control. Ekaterina Zaharieva will be the first to respond to Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister for Foreign Affairs. She will answer a question from the National Representative Pavel Shopov on the position of Bulgaria and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and possible actions of the Ministry on Turkey's intentions to convert the church to a mosque. Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u116	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, this question has dragged on as an answer. I'm not saying anything bad about it, you don't have the blame, so it happened, but maybe it's for the best that I can talk to you today, Mrs. Zaharieva. We have the impression of the reactions outside the country and in the country, and many things have happened since then, including today the first Muslim My question, Madam Minister, is fundamental. We warned about this 15 years ago and Siderov talked about it, and we from Ataka and who Erdogan was and what he was fighting for. Erdogan didn't have any friends left, but it shows that only for us Bulgarians he is more or less an Arkadash for our prime minister. Here, however, I do not want to carry things in purely political terms. For the relations between Bulgaria and Turkey, which I have always said in this Chamber, and I have told you about it, are best as a model and attitude, as are the relations between the countries of Greece and Turkey. We don't follow them, and that's a historical mistake, and we're being written in the future in decades and centuries, if you will. I want to put things in a purely Christian way, in a civilized sense, because another very big mistake is made, and in their reactions everyone is talking about a monument of culture that is under the protection of UNESCO bullshit, bullshit! This is a Christian temple, there are sacred relics in it, and this is the Christian point of view. This is not about a monument of culture that is corrupted and defiled, which happened for the first time in 1453 at Mehmed the Conqueror, but about other concepts and values that refer to the whole Christian world. Finally, today at the place in front of the Bulgarian St. Sofia, where the Serdiki Council, known to all Christians, met Christians from all Christian communities in Bulgaria, Orthodox, Catholics, evangelists, Protestants, at 18:00 to express their opinion and opinion. My question, as I have asked you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs, is: what is Bulgaria's official position on the issue? Is there any notes made by the Bulgarian Foreign Ministry, any warnings, whether the Turkish Ambassador has been called on in this connection because such a position is missing so far?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u117	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u118	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Shopov, you've made a retrospect. You are right that over the centuries a number of peoples have erected monuments to their religions, much of which are now known to all mankind and are included in the UNESCO World Heritage List. Undoubtedly, one of the most emblematic of them is precisely the "St. Sofia" erected as the central cathedral temple of the Orthodox Church in the Byzantine Empire, which passed into the hands of Catholics in the Latin Empire, turned into a mosque by the Ottomans. During the modernization of the Turkish Republic, carried out by its founder Kemal Ataturk, the sanctuary became a religious cultural heritage of all mankind. I've personally been to the temple, it's really impressive, and I can tell you that this is one of the most impressive temples and examples of the cultural heritage I've ever been to. On 2 July 2020, the State Council of the Republic of Turkey held a hearing on the case for the annulment of the 1934 Decision, according to which Basilica St. Sofia in Istanbul was converted into a museum. They wrote me in retrospect, but, as you said, today will actually be the first Muslim prayer. However, more importantly, in the context of this decision, the property of Basilica was transferred from the Ministry of Culture and Tourism of the Republic of Turkey to the Department of Religious Affairs, Dianatte. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, of course, has been following this case since the beginning and has come up with an official public position on it, which says that we are expressing a really great regret for the change of the status of St. Sofia and we are joining the calls of the international community and the European Union. Many countries have come out, including from the European Union and UNESCO, to preserve the current status of this temple. We also expect the opinion says that the universal historical value of the monument is preserved as part of UNESCO's world heritage. Here I will point out that according to the UNESCO World Heritage Convention, the management of the listed sites is protected by the very country in which they are located. The State shall be obliged to preserve the exclusive universal value of the site and shall have relevant obligations and responsibilities for a competent authority to monitor compliance with the Convention of the World Heritage Committee. Any major change, as is this, falls under § 172 of the Rules of Implementation of the Convention. What does that mean? Each Party shall notify UNESCO in advance when providing for the relevant change and then the file shall be discussed at the next session of the World Heritage Committee in order to assess the change that is extremely universal value and so on. We support UNESCO's approach, which relies on avoiding politicising issues related to the management of the World Heritage Sites. I would like to stress once again that the Holy One of Sofia has really historical symbolism and universal value. It must continue to represent pluralism and the diversity of religious, cultural and historical heritage. I am glad, it is true that it is a little late, but still the Holy Synod, if I am not mistaken, came out last week also with an opinion on this matter, and a number of synods actually came up with an opinion on the matter. I can say, unfortunately, that the decision has been made and we will do everything we can, including in the UNESCO Committee, to preserve the Christian symbols, and you know that there are really extremely beautiful frescoes, and that its transformation into a mosque does not lead to their deletion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u119	Thank you, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u120	Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, I see your concern, but the way we interpret events is quite different. If we are talking about the withdrawal, liquidation of the church and its transformation into a Muslim temple, which is an invasion of a church, you are talking about beautiful frescoes. We're talking about holy icons, and that's the difference. We are talking about a Christian temple in which there are built-in holy relics, which makes it a temple forever. It is clear to all Christians that where there are built-in holy relics, where they are built in, you know where, there can never be anything but a temple. You mentioned precisely and correctly, and we refer to this as referring to the position of the Bulgarian St. Synod, which is clear, unambiguous, firm to the ground, as he has always spoken his positions and has come out in a similar way in all living ways to the trembling and important problems of the Bulgarian present, and we follow the Holy Synod. In this regard were the positions of the other churches, not only the Orthodox, but the Roman Bishop Francis also pronounced unambiguously and categorically in this direction. In this regard, President Trump and Putin were pronounced categorically. Should I make you a list of all foreign ministries, governments of the European Union, Catholic European countries or those in which Protestant or evangelical religion prevail?! We Bulgarians have a special role to play in being much more explicit, not to speculate on a position that is leaky, which will not irritate our neighbours. We Bulgarians have taken our faith from this very place. There was the main, cathedral temple, when King Boris in 865 made his really civilization choice. A president of Bulgaria spoke 25 years ago about the civilization of Bulgaria, which she had made... Rubbish! The civilization choice of Bulgaria was made in 865 by the Holy Tsar Boris. There is nothing else, and to be in this hall at the moment, and in this difficult situation because we do not follow this civilization choice made by him?! In this regard, it is very clear...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u121	Time, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u122	Yes, I'm graduating, Mr. Chairman. I realize I'm running out of time. What we are doing right now with the Minister-General is pretty much the only position that state institutions and bodies are expressing at the moment on this so important issue, which will continue to stand here with great power, and the Bulgarians are extremely important in this direction. Erdogan tried to divide the Christian world by calling at one point the church It is not a Greek church, it is a Christian church built by the Second Roman Empire.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u123	Mr. Shopov, parliamentary control does not allow too much vocabulary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u124	Madam Minister, I conclude with these words: watch the subject, follow the question! This topic makes us truly belonging to the Christian world, this is our civilization choice made centuries ago. Both Bulgarian patriots and Bulgarian nationalists and we from Ataka have always kept to know who comes from, who is what...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u125	You abuse Mr. Shopov with time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u126	...otherwise, we're out of roots.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u127	Thank you. Would you like the word for the doppelganger? No. Before we move on to the next question, I would like to clarify something, as Mr. Shopov mentioned that our institution has no position on this issue. Ms. Gemma Grozdanova and I discussed this position until recently, but she, unfortunately, left Parliament before we took this step. You could initiate something similar on this occasion. We are moving on to the question to Deputy Prime Minister Mariana Nikolova from the National Representative Polina Shishkova on the implementation of the updated strategy for the development of the electronic governance of the Republic of Bulgaria 2019. You have the floor, Mrs. Shishkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u128	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! According to the updated strategy for the development of e-government in the Republic of Bulgaria 2019 and the updated roadmap for implementation of the Strategy, by 2023 each citizen of Bulgaria should be able to communicate fully electronically with the state administration by receiving easy, secure and reliable personalised administrative services. The specific objective is to achieve an irreversible digital transformation of the state administration in our country. The process of digitalisation and transformation is undoubtedly staged, complex and long-term, but there should be clear steps and deadlines for its implementation. To date, progress data relating to the deployment and transition to electronic control are not encouraging. The public credit of trust is expressed in skepticism towards public authorities to consistently and fully implement state policy in this area. One of the reasons for this is the discrepancy and fragmentation of project and communication activities. A major disadvantage is the too long period of reform in the area of digitalisation of administrative services. This is also evidence of the inclusion of the updated roadmap of some of the projects set out in stage 1 of the previous one, the implementation of which was due to be completed by 2017. In the light of the above, I ask for the answer to the following questions: from the 90 measures put forward in the updated roadmap, which have been successfully implemented so far? How is the progress of goals and strategy communicated on the one hand, and on the other hand the opportunities to use the already available electronic services? Are there any electronic services that have been introduced, but have not been used so far? Are legislative initiatives related to e-government envisaged? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u129	Thank you, dear Mrs. Shishkova. You have the floor to answer, dear Mrs. Nikolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u130	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Shishkova, the measures carried out on the Road Map on 15 July 2020 are a total of seven. They are based on a specific objective 1.1. of the "Support of interoperability by default," and a specific objective 1.3 of the "Support of digital solutions, information systems and shared resources of e-government, and are implemented with financial resources under the Operational Programme "Good management" with the following beneficiaries: the State Agency "E-Management" and the National Statistical Institute, the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Ministry of Justice and Customs. Measure No 2 "Development of public registers for budgetary and project control of electronic management and of a portal for access to resources for the development of electronic management software systems" has been implemented. The implementation of measure No 35 is implemented. The implementation of a monitoring system for indicators for the implementation of all operational programmes is implemented. The implementation of measure No 39 "Sustainment of a geographical information system-based electronic platform' has contributed to the integration and systematization of information on procedures and regulations governing the deployment and maintenance of infrastructure, including the authorities competent to issue acts in the field and their respective charges. The implementation of measure No 45 "Improving the basic systems for providing data and services to external systems, Phase 1 has contributed to the streamline and simplification of customs legislation and procedures and the creation of conditions for more efficient customs operations. Measure No 50 is implemented and only electronic documents and electronic content in the sector are used and exchanged by the executive bodies. Training of employees to work with the AIS and electronic documents. Measure No 52 has been implemented "Technical, training and organizational means to implement developed internal rules and policies for the use of information resources in the executive bodies in the sector "Justice" in accordance with the Law on Electronic Governance and in accordance with the rules and standards laid down in the Strategy for the Development of Electronic Governance. Through the implementation of measure No 53, the improvement of the model of judicial expertise has been achieved in improving the work of property and the quality of expertise by introducing criteria and mechanisms to choose a subsequent choice. With regard to the question of how it is communicating, on the one hand, the progress and objectives of the Strategy and, on the other, the possibilities for using the already available electronic services, communicating the progress and objectives of the Strategy and the opportunities for using the already available electronic services are implemented through a range of measures and the use of different communication channels depending on stakeholders, administrative authorities, citizens and business. On the one hand, the State Agency "Electronical Management" regularly provides the objectives and principles set out in the Strategy, meetings and forums organized by both the Agency and stakeholders, including for example the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. The coordination and communication with the administrative bodies on the issues related to the Strategy is implemented actively and through working councils in the field of e-government to the President of the State Agency At the same time, during the process of monitoring the implementation of the roadmap, the State Agency for Electronic Governance regularly organizes meetings with the administrations responsible for implementing the measures that discuss progress on the individual measures against the objectives of the Strategy. In the first days after the announcement of the emergency situation in relation to the COVID-19 pandemic, the State Agency In the period March-June 2020, new electronic administrative services were provided for citizens and businesses, developed jointly with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Interior and other institutions. The access to new e-services was widely reflected in national electronic and printed media and reached the widest possible audience. With regard to the question, are there any electronic services that have been introduced so far and have not been used, the focus in the field of e-government is aimed at reducing the administrative burden for citizens and businesses...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u131	I'm gonna have to ask you a little less, Mrs. Nikolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u132	...in the use of technological capacity for centralised statement. Currently, a total of 358 electronic administrative services and 436 electronic forms of application and accompanying documents for central, district and municipal administration have been developed and implemented, which have been published centrally on the Single portal for access to electronic administrative services. With regard to the matter, are legislative initiatives envisaged...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u133	Maybe you can finish in the back, because you've already been out of time for a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u134	Just one sentence, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u135	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u136	The development of e-government legislation is an ongoing process strongly influenced by the entry of information and communication technologies into all areas of public relations. The draft amendment and supplement of the Public Information Access Act to transpose Directive EU/2019/1024 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on open data and the reuse of public sector information, after which the legislative changes introduced will be reflected in the relevant regulatory framework at legal and regulatory level.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u137	It was a long sentence. Thank you. You have the floor for a line, Mrs. Shishkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u138	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Deputy Prime Minister, from what you have said, we have understood that there have already been measures implemented, but, unfortunately, this is not a topic that should be commented, as we should have already moved to a new level of interaction between citizens, business and institutions, or in other words, to interactivity and dialogue with greater added value. Unfortunately, the results of the latest measurement of the digital input index in the economy and society, published by the European Commission in June last year, show that Bulgaria ranks last against the countries of the European Union. With regard to the indicator digital public services, our country ranks 25th among the Member States of the European Union, which is still below the average level for the European Union. And here I would like to ask you: how can the data presented by you on the progress in digitalization be disproved by the European Commission? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u139	Thank you, dear Mrs. Shishkova. Would you like a duplicate, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u140	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Shishkova, along with what I have said, I would like to add that the measures of the updated roadmap are addressed to the strategic and specific objectives of the Strategy, regardless of the source of funding, providing for a stage of the upgrade and development of the systems in order to ensure continuity, manageability and systemicity. Currently, their implementation has contributed to achieving the following positive effects: saved time and expenses for business and administration; e-processing of applications has saved considerable time for citizens and administration; improving the work of the financial sector and the judiciary as a result of transferring central register of special bets to the Registry Agency; improving revenue collection; developing registers and systems for design and budgetary control of electronic management and providing access to software development resources; significantly accelerating the application process and increasing security of public procurement procedures by limiting manipulation opportunities; introducing common standards in the award process that create equal conditions for participants. At the same time, during the process of carrying out the monitoring of the implementation of the Road map, the State Agency is regularly organizing meetings with the administration responsible for the implementation of the measures, which I stressed and my response discusses progress on the individual measures against the objectives of the Strategy. The popularization of the objectives and activities in the implementation of the Strategy for the Development of Electronic Governance in the Republic of Bulgaria includes as a minimum the following main areas of public communication: improving the cyberculture of users in the virtual environment, promoting the use of electronic identification means, promoting the use of administrative services by electronic means and digital interaction with public institutions. The single model for requesting, paying and providing electronic administrative services is developed and applied. A single model that reformates the classic model of isolated and fragmented systems providing services and their gradual replacement from an operational model aimed at users, target segments and provides much better cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, and for participating in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to a question to Rosen Zhelyazkov, Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev concerning a four-month absence of transport connections in 18 villages in Dragoman municipality. You have the floor, Mr. Chenchev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I asked this question because I was repeatedly alerted to the problems in Dragoman municipality. The residents of 18 villages there think that more than four months are without transport. It is clear that these residents suffered also because of what happened in Bulgaria with the Coronavirus epidemic, but agree, Minister, that they do not have transport does not put them in normal civil, I would say, and human conditions. I am aware that the governor also has prerogatives and must answer such questions, but you are also Minister of Transport. There were debates here just now whether or not ministers have failed, they wanted resignations, but the fact that 18 villages are without transport talks about how this government is doing its job in Bulgaria. Dragoman Municipality and specifically in these villages there are other problems that do not concern your portfolio ministry, but besides transport they have not had water for a long time. Thus, the conditions become completely inhumane. Therefore, my appeal, if you will, is to pay serious attention and demand that this problem be resolved because every Bulgarian citizen is equal and has the right to receive decent living conditions throughout the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u143	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u144	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chenchev, I share your understanding of the need to provide adequate transport services regardless of the nature and type of the settlement. A little details of the factology of your asking: According to the Road Transport Act and Decree No 2 of 2002 on the terms and conditions for validating transport schemes and for carrying out public transport of passengers by buses, transport connectivity of settlements within the territory of a municipality is carried out through bus lines from the municipal transport scheme. According to these standards, the municipal transport scheme is developed on a proposal from the mayor of the municipality concerned and is validated by the relevant municipal council. The mayors of municipalities shall assign services on their schedule and control the implementation of the arrangement with the carrier concerned. As regards the distribution of COVID-19 for the period of the emergency situation, recommendations were given to the district managers to review, together with the mayors of municipalities, the assigned carriages of passengers on bus lines from the Republican, regional and municipal transport schemes to allow for a temporary reduction of the bus lines on which there was or had been a drastic decrease in passenger traffic. In the light of the above, the competent authority on the question you have asked, as well as in taking action to ensure public transport to the public, is the mayor of Dragoman municipality. In addition, I inform you that, in connection with a complaint lodged at the Executive Agency, the residents of the settlements in the territory of the municipality are ordered and a check is carried out by the control bodies of the Executive Agency to establish how to award the schedules of the municipal transport scheme. In the event that it is established that the municipality has concluded contracts with a carrier which does not comply with the schedules assigned to it, acts will be drawn up to establish administrative infringements of the carrier in accordance with the Agency's control powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u145	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, Dear Mr. Zhelyazkov, Dear Members of the National Assembly! It is good that there is an inspection, it is good that there is a reaction to the complaints of citizens. I deliberately didn't come here with these documents, because I don't see the point in this, I'm just paying attention to you being the Minister of Transport. In my question, I said that I am aware of the responsibility of the governor of the district, but it seems to me that every minister of government should be responsible for this. Thank you for your reaction. Of course, people who are currently looking at the inhabitants of Dragoil and the other villages will not stop looking for normal living conditions. We will monitor the results of the verification and I hope that institutions will have adequate and timely reactions in the future so that no such problems occur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u147	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? No. We move on to the last question from today's parliamentary control to Minister Temenuzhka Petkova. We thank Minister Zhelyazkov for his participation in parliamentary control. Question from the MPs Tsvetan Topchiev and Philip Popov on gasification of Vidin and the district. Here you are, Mr. Popov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, regarding the repeatedly asked questions by citizens of Vidin district about the possibilities for gasification of settlements in the area, in the context of the construction of the Balkan Stream, taking into account the answer of Mr. Boyko Borisov to the question of Radio Vidin from 16 April 2020 will the city be gasified, to which Borisov answers: "I hope there will be. If there's gas there, why not gas. So as there is gas, it will be gasified and I hope that this year will become........................and that this year....................................................................... 4, para. 2, p. 6 of the Energy Act, I ask for your answer to the question: what will you take to gasification of the city of Vidin and the district to meet the demands of the citizens of Vidin and the hopes of the Prime Minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u149	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Topchiev, dear Mr. Popov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The activities for the implementation of the expansion of the transmission infrastructure from the Bulgarian-Turkish to the Bulgarian-Serb border aim to provide opportunities for the supply of natural gas from different routes and from different sources. This will, of course, strengthen competition and transparency in the natural gas market, which will, of course, have a beneficial impact on natural gas consumers. As is known, the route of the Balkan Stream passes through 11 districts, including Vidin District. The implementation of the project creates prerequisites for the development of gas distribution companies in the respective regions. According to the provision of art. 4, para. 2, p. 6 of the Energy Act, the Minister of Energy, submitted for approval by the Council of Ministers an inventory of new separate areas for the distribution of natural gas and amending existing separate areas for the distribution of natural gas for which no licence has been issued. In the present case, the municipality of Vidin and the region do not fall within the description established by the Council of Ministers. In this regard, it is necessary to clarify the following: the activities The licence shall allow those activities to be carried out under the conditions laid down therein. According to the provisions of the Energy Act and the Regulation on the licensing of activities in the energy sector, a licence for the activity can be issued both after a competition and without a competition. A license to carry out the activity The competition shall be declared by the Commission for energy and water regulation and shall be carried out under conditions and in order laid down by Decree No 3 of 2013 on the licensing of energy activities. A licence for the above activity shall be issued without a contest for territories which are outside those defined in the description, as is the case with the Municipality of Vidin, and which are subject to investment interest. In this case, the territory subject to investment interest shall be defined as a separate area for the distribution of natural gas. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: It should be noted that the competition for the issue of licences for carrying out the activity The approved investment projects under which the Balkan Stream project is implemented do not provide for the construction of pipeline deviations in the areas through which the pipeline passes. This does not, of course, exclude in the future the possibility, in case of public interest or in the interest of industrial consumers, of traders, the Bulgarian gas operator Bulgartransgaz to explore the possibilities to build a deviation for Vidin district from the national transmission network of the country in order to encourage the use of natural gas in the region. Or if we have to sum up literally with one sentence in order to be there, to take action or to be included in the description of the Council of Ministers Vidin or Vidin Municipality, the necessary and mandatory condition is to have investor interest. Because, inevitably, any such type of gasification activity passes through a licence, a licence issued by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. We are, of course, available. If there is such interest, Bulgartransgaz will build such a deviation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u151	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petkova. You have the floor for a line. Here you go, Mr. Topchiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister Petkova, I must tell you that I am not satisfied with your answer. We know the procedure. We wanted to hear if you would take any concrete action in order for the gasification of Vidin and the area to take place. Why? This is the poorest region in all of Europe. They need assistance, support from the government of Boyko Borisov. With its location of two borders, with its transport links.... the Danube River, Danube Bridge 2, despite all things, there are no investors. If they have an energy source, I'm sure there will be and will be a good step to support the people and the region because they need this thing. I didn't hear that in your answer. Your Prime Minister said he was hoping, you read to me here what the procedures are. We know the procedures and therefore we turn to you: will you fulfil your obligation under art. 4, para. 2, p. 6 of the Energy Act to include Vidin district in the licensing description? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u153	Thank you, dear Mr. Topchiev. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Topchiev, thank you for your comments. As Prime Minister Borisov has also shared, of course, this is an opportunity which Balkan Stream creates throughout all 11 areas through which it goes, but in terms of gasification and gasification of the individual regions, it is entirely a matter of investor interest. The state is not involved in this process. By the way, the latest update of the list of the inventory approved by the Council of Ministers with the areas that are classified as such for which the KEWRC can issue a licence only and only in the case of investor interest was made in 2005. And since then there have been no similar updates to this inventory. So Vidin municipality can be gasified if there is investor interest if there is interest from the citizens who live there, as the municipality also has the right and initiative to create such a company, to apply to the KEWRC and to obtain a licence. On the part of the state, on the part of Bulgartransgaz, I take the commitment that, in the presence of such interest, we declare readiness to make a deviation for Vidin. It is in everyone's interest to work for gasification of the different regions, because in Bulgaria the domestic gasification is below 3%. This is one of the factors for combating harmful emissions, one of the factors for improving quality and standard of living for people. The government supports and welcomes this type of initiative. What depends on the state will be done, but there must still be a private initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u155	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petkova, and for your participation in today's parliamentary control. [[The National Representative Rosen Ivanov wants the floor.]] Procedure? I can't not give you the floor of procedure, but I hope you move as close as possible to the Rules of Procedure. The way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u156	Hello, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues! Mr. Chairman, from the whole debate on the topic I did not understand whether there was a certified permission from the European Commission regarding the passage of this Balkan Stream through Bulgaria. Is there 10% allowed to be used for local purposes?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u157	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. I didn't understand either, but I don't know if you should ask a separate question on this subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u158	I'm probably going to ask it as a separate question, because it's not clear if there's going to be a possibility of distribution...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u159	In principle, ministers can at any time take the floor. We're already on the verge of the Rules of Procedure, but if Mrs. Petkova is willing...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u160	Let him ask the question officially.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-24.u161	Yes, ask a question officially and you will receive a detailed answer to the next parliamentary control. Minister Petkova is making a commitment. With this, parliamentary control is running out. The next regular meeting is on July 29th, Wednesday, at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
