ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. I will present to your attention the National Assembly's Work Programme in the period 28 October 2020: "1." Projects of decisions on changes in the composition of permanent committees. Importer Georgi Svilenski, 20 October 2020; 27 October 2020 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Physical Education and Sports. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 28 September 2020. Adopted in first vote on 14 October 2020. 3. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Ecommerce Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 7 August 2020. Adopted in first vote on 24 September 2020. 4. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code. Importer "The Council of Ministers," 7 August 2020 5. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 14 August 2020. Adopted in the first vote on 30 September 2020. 6. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 14 October 2020 Point 1 for Thursday, 29 October 2020 7. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 16 October 2020 Point 2 for Thursday, 29 October 2020 8. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship. Importers suppose Andon Donchev and a group of MPs, 27 July 2017; Council of Ministers, 8 October 2019; Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs, 20 March 2020; Council of Ministers, 27 March 2020. Point 3 for Thursday 29 October 2020 9. Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Responsibility Act for the Prevention and Elimination of Environmental Damage. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 11 August 2020. Adopted in first vote on 7 October 2020. Point 4 for Thursday, 29 October 2020 10. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Enterprises Act. Importers "Daniela Daritkova" and a group of MPs, 9 October 2020. Adopted in the first vote on 23 October 2020. Point 1 for Friday, 30 October 2020 11. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by the National Assembly Decision of 13 March 2020, and to address the consequences. Importers.. Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs, 22 October 2020 Point 2 for Friday, 30 October 2020 12. Parliamentary control comprising: This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. Debates on the inquiry by the MPs Georgi Gokov, Vesela Lecheva, Violeta Jeleva, Milko Nedyalkov, Nadia Klisurska and Polina Shishkova to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on the policy of improving the adequacy of pensions in Bulgaria in the short and long term; 12.2. Answers to questions and Please, a voting regime on the so-called proposal for an agenda. They voted 178 MPs: 112, against 29, abstention 37. The motion is accepted. Draft and draft resolutions from 21 to 27 October 2020: Draft Law amending and supplementing the National Security Service Act. Importers.. Krasimir Yankov and a group of MPs. The Committee for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act is the lead. Draft amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling, the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Crediting Students and Doctoral Students. Importers.. Krasimir Yankov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Education and Science is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft Decision amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Importers.. Krasimir Yankov and a group of MPs. Draft amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and for overcoming the consequences. Importers srasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Draft Law amending the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Environmental Protection. Importers suppose Ivelina Vassileva and a group of MPs. The Committee on Environment and Water is the lead. Bill amending and supplementing the Water Act. Importers - Stanislava Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Environment and Water is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Proposal for discussions on questions No 054-05-42 of 14 October 2020 by the MPs Georgi Gokov, Vesela Lecheva, Violeta Jeleva, Milko Nedyalkov, Nadia Klisurska and Polina Shishkova to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on the policy for improving the adequacy of pensions in Bulgaria in the short and long term. Importers suppose Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Bill amending and supplementing the Credit Institutions Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications. A bill to supplement the Law on Notary and Notary Activities. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Draft decision on a change in the composition of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Importer Georgi Svilenski. Draft decision on a change in the composition of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Mr. Svilensky's proposal again. We'll continue with the messages. To the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria, to the President of the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria. Application by Mihail Ivaylov Hristov - MP from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria On the basis of art. 15, para. 3 in connection with para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Madam President of the National Assembly, Madam Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of the BSP for Bulgaria.I hereby inform you that I am leaving the Parliamentary Group of the BSP for Bulgaria. My reasons for this decision are: firstly, not taking the way of work in the parliamentary group of BSP; secondly, a sense of lack of collectiveity in the parliamentary group of BSP; thirdly, a lack of confidence in the decisions taken by the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria and fourthly, fundamental differences. Sincerely, Mihail Ivaylov Hristov, MP. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of the Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that it has authorised, by its order, for the period from 29 October to 9 November 2020, the residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of four soldiers of the Navy of the Republic of Turkey and of ships of the composition of the Second Permanent National Assembly of NATO.................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The visit of the ships and the group of servicemen is of a non-military nature and is related to their participation in the Bulgarian-Romanian anti-mining exercise. The notification was received on 26 October 2020 with entry No 003-09-90 and was submitted to the Defence Committee. And the last message: According to the Fiscal Council Act and automatic corrective mechanisms in the National Assembly, an opinion was received by the Fiscal Council on the Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021 and an updated medium-term budgetary forecast for 2021 and a draft strategy for government debt management for the period 2021. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the materials were sent to all Standing Committees and are available to the National Representatives in the Library of the National Assembly. The opinion is published on the website of the Fiscal Council.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u2	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u3	Mr. Zablyanov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u4	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Six MPs from the Progressive Socialist Group have sent a question to the Prime Minister concerning the implementation of the Friendship Treaty with the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the development of the position of the government of Northern Macedonia in recent weeks. The question was not sent through you to the Prime Minister, was returned and we were advised to send it to Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva. We object to your decision because the relations between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Northern Macedonia in the last month have developed at government level. The positions expressed are from Prime Minister Zoran Zaev and the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Northern Macedonia. A proposal was made by a Macedonian country for an annex to the Friendship Treaty with the Republic of Bulgaria and these issues of this level of bilateral relations cannot be part of the foreign minister's competence. These are issues of the competence of the Bulgarian government. Adding an annex to the Friendship Treaty is one of the competences of the Bulgarian Parliament and, said in daily language, your diversion of the issue is an administrative-political fint that will in no way hide this dramatic development of our bilateral relations. I call on you at the first convenient moment to invite the Prime Minister when the quarantine situation allows us to be informed of the latest developments in bilateral relations. The situation is sharpened...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u5	I understand, Mr. Jablyanov, your time is up. Thank you. I waited exactly two minutes for you to develop your procedure. [[National Representative Valeri Zablyanov continues to speak with microphones off.]] Just to tell you, Mr. Zablyanov, that you did not take advantage of the possibility of art. 107, para. 3 to object that I have returned your question and that it would be dealt with at the Conference of Presidents. So you just missed the time you could have objected. [[(Reply of the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov to the side of the microphones:]] You can't. [[(Reply of the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov to the side of the microphones:]] No, you can't! Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: PROJECTS OF DECISIONS FOR CHANGES IN STANDING COMMITMENTS. Importer Georgi Svilenski, on 22 October 2020 and 27 October 2020. Project! DECISION amending the composition of the Committee on Culture and Media The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 23, para. 3, p. 2 and para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Releases Chavdar Yordanov Velinov as a member of the Committee on Culture and Media. Please, voting mode. Vote 81 MPs: 62, against 8, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. Go ahead, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u6	Mrs. Chairman! I'm asking for a re-voting procedure. It's a normal procedure, I think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u7	Please re-vote. Vote 77 MPs: 66 against 6, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Negative vote please, Mr. Shopov. Then Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Finally, these small games of parliamentaryism must be exposed with the exclusion from parliamentary committees and the removal from them of those MPs who name themselves independent MPs or MPs who are not members of parliamentary groups. This game has been played many times and has always come to a situation of sanctions and repression by those parliamentary groups from which the MPs are excluded. According to our regulations, the MPs have the right to be members of two parliamentary committees as they are, as they are, good or bad. In certain cases, there are exceptions where they exclude or leave their parliamentary groups, Members of Parliament, may not participate in the management of parliamentary committees or delegations involved in the foreign policy activities of Parliament. However, as regards the regular MPs in the parliamentary groups, there is no such rule as to exclude them. Here we now come to another typical example of repression with regard to MPs this time those who were in the parliamentary group of BSP. The same is happening to us - those who were in the parliamentary group of the so-called United Patriarchs. Then Mrs. Ninova herself advocated the Chairmanship Council, we know that we should not be excluded from the second committees, because we were excluded from one committee at a time. However, it is now so far that Mrs. Nino is doing the same thing she was opposed to a few months ago or a year ago and is subject to this repression of MPs from the BSP parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u9	Mr. Shopov, please, the weather!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u10	That's the logic of small-time games.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u11	Mr. Shopov, thank you. I gave you a little more time because the technique broke down. Mr. Zablyanov, come in for a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u12	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I voted against the release of Mr. Velinov from the Committee on Culture and Media because this exemption is anti-constitutional, as is the anti-constitutional text in the National Assembly's Rules, which basically creates two categories of MPs. The committees of the Bulgarian Parliament are parliamentary, not party committees and it is high time for the Rules of Parliament to be brought into line with the Constitution. It is not possible and it is not normal on the proposal of party guides to restrict the competences and rights of the MPs. From the Group of Progressive Socialists, we are insisting and we are putting forward a proposal for amendments to the Rules of Procedure. We hope that this amendment will be supported by a majority of MPs. We are all committed to the development and consolidation of parliamentaryism, and when the participation and competences of the individual MPs can be decided at random by two or three people who have found themselves in the front row of parliament, this limits and undermines the fundamentals of Bulgarian parliamentaryism. Mr. Velinov is one of the most competent members of the Committee on Culture and Media in the Bulgarian Parliament and because the Committee on Culture and Media is saying it ironically, so to speak, overloaded with capacity, on a proposal from the management of the parliamentary group of BSP, this committee is deprived of one of its most competent members. You should consider how Bulgarian parliamentaryism is established with similar anti-constitutional texts in our rules. There are others, but I'll leave them to your experts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u13	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. We continue with the next draft decision on a change in the composition of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 23, para. 3, p. 2 and para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Releases Chavdar Yordanov Velinov as a member of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Please, voting mode. Vote 65 MPs: 58, Against 2, abstention 5. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u14	Thank you, Madam President. I'm asking for a re-voting procedure. Please keep your colleagues in line with art. 21 of our Rules of Procedure, which have been voted and which clearly states that the parliamentary committees should be so shaped as to be respected in practice by the parliamentary groups of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u15	I understand the procedure, Mr. Popov. Please, re-vote procedure. Vote 63 MPs: 61, against 1, abstention 1. The offer is not accepted. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 23, para. 3, p. 2 and para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Releases Mihail Ivaylov Hristov as a member of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Please, voting mode. Vote 62 MPs: 62 against and abstention no. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u16	Procedure! Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u17	Mr. Prodanov, are you going to make it? [[Heckling]] There is no quorum, and as there is no quorum, the proposal is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u18	Revoting proposal, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u19	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. Please, re-election mode. Vote 64 MPs: 64, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. And the last project is: Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 23, para. 3, p. 2 and para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He released Mihail Ivaylov Hristov as a member of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Please, voting mode. Vote 69 MPs: 64 against 5, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the second item of today's agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR PHYSICAL RECOGNITION AND SPORTS. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 28 September 2020
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u20	Mr. Atanasov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u21	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Please, before we start voting, for admission to the hall of Mr. Stoyan Andonov "Deputy Minister of Physical Education and Sports" and Dr. Valentina Zarkova "Secretary Director of Antidoping Center."
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u22	I put to the vote Mr. Andonov and Mrs. Zarkova's motion for admission. They voted 153 MPs: 144, against 1, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Please invite guests to take their seats. Go on, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Law on Physical Education and Sports (prom., SG No. (growling) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u24	Are there any suggestions regarding the name of the Law? Any other suggestions, speeches? I can't see. I'm voting on the name of the Law. Vote 149 MPs: for 145, not against, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u25	Proposal of the MPs Slavcho Atanasov, Stefan Apostolov and Georgi Dinev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25, para. The first sentence of the first sentence shall be replaced, for a period of up to 6 months from the date of the order, by the date of issue of a licence to the relevant sports federation, but not more than 6 months from the date of the order for withdrawal or termination of the licence. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1, which shall become § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27, para. 1, t. 7 at the beginning is added to the anti-opping rules and the words.......................................................................................................................... are replaced............................................................................................................................ According to § 2 there is a proposal of the MPs Slavcho Atanasov, Stefan Apostolov and Georgi Dinev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2, which shall become § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 31, para. 5 the following additions are 1. In the text before t. 1 after the word 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 and 2 after the word The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 89 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 the words................................ the principles and values associated with pure sport, as well as the problems, dangers and consequences................................................. are replaced with.................................................................................................................................................................. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 is added at the end as well as for their respective rights and responsibilities. 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 shall be added at the end of the list referred to as the "Forbidden List'. According to § 4 there is a proposal of the MPs Slavcho Atanasov, Stefan Apostolov and Georgi Dinev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 90 the following 1. In para. 1 after the word "sportsman" is added or otherwise committed to doping control. 2. In para. 4. (a) point 3 is amended as follows: "3." avoidance of sampling; refusal or non-participation in an athlete's sampling without due cause, following a notice received from a duly authorised person; (b) c. 5 is finally added by an athlete or another person. (c) c. 6 is finally added by an athlete or a sports person; (d) c. 7 is finally added by an athlete or another person. (e) point 8 is amended as follows: It's 8 o'clock. the application or attempted application by an athlete or another person of a prohibited substance or a prohibited method on an athlete during a competition; application or attempt to apply to an athlete outside a competition of a prohibited substance or a prohibited method which is prohibited outside a competition; (f) c. 9 the word "participation' shall be replaced by a deliberate complicity or attempted accessory by an athlete or another person; (g) create a t. 11: "11." dissuading or taking action by an athlete or another person to retaliate against reporting to the authorities, other than those referred to in paragraph 1. 5. 3. In para. 5. (a) in the text before t. 1 the word "supplier' is deleted; (b) c. 3 the words "three months' shall be replaced by "one month' and the words "athlete's or employee' shall be deleted; (c) Paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 shall be created. "4." temporary suspension; 5. financial penalties; 6. public disclosure. 4. In para. 6 A second sentence is created: A single offence can be imposed more than one penalty. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u26	So far, Mr. Atanasov. I open the debates on the new § 1 and paragraphs 1 to 7 by importer, which are now numbered from § 2 to § 8. Are there any speeches on the paragraphs proposed at the debate? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm calling off the debate. I shall put to the vote the text of new proposals § 1; the texts of the importer from § 1 to § 4 by the version of the Commission, which shall acquire a new numbering: § 2, 3, 4 and 5; and paragraphs 5, 6, 7 by importer, which shall become paragraphs 6, 7 and 8. Voted 118 MPs: 116, no objection, abstention 2. Paragraphs 1 to 8 have thus been adopted including. Continue with "Concluding provisions."
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u27	'Concluding provisions'. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following version of the name of the division: Proposal of the MPs Slavcho Atanasov, Stefan Apostolov and Georgi Dinev. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Valentin Milushev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... (1) The disciplinary proceedings which began until the entry into force of this law shall be completed in the order so far. (2) Unfinished until the entry into force of this law proceedings under art. 17 of the repealed Law on Physical Education and Sports is completed in the new order. Proposal of the National Representative Valentin Milushev. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Vladimir Valev, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... The law shall enter into force from 1 January 2021, with the exception of § 1 and § 9, para. 2 which shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u28	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. I shall open the deliberations on the name of the section as well as under paragraphs 8 and 9, for which it is proposed to be renumbered as paragraphs 9 and 10. You have the floor to speak. I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the name of the Section "Transitional and final provisions', as well as the editorials of paragraphs 8 and 9, on a proposal from the Commission, which shall become paragraphs 9 and 10. They voted 106 MPs: for 106, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u29	Thank you, colleagues, from all parliamentary groups, for working on the amendments to the Law quickly, precisely and in due time. God willing, we'll do the same for other things.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u30	And we thank you, Mr. Atanasov, for the highly effective folk activity you have done with this law. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR ELECTRONIC TRADE. Importer of the Council of Ministers, on 7 August 2020. Adopted in first vote on 24 September 2020. Who's gonna introduce us to the Bill Report? Mr. Petar Kanev, Chairman of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. The microphone is yours, Mr. Kanev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u31	"Report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Ecommerce Act No 002-01-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 August 2020, adopted on the first vote on 24 September 2020. The Act for amendment and supplement of the Ecommerce Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 by: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22b, para. 2 the words "Main production" shall be deleted. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22c, para. 2 words The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ The additional provision shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. The term "Additional provision' is replaced by "Additional provisions'. 2. § 1a and § 2: supposed to be in the same condition as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the § 2. This law provides for measures for the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2019/1150 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on the promotion of justice and transparency for business users of online services.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u32	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. I open the debates on the name of the Law, as well as under paragraphs 1. 4. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the name of the Law, as well as the Commission's perfectly proposed amendments to paragraphs 2 and 4, 1 and 3 by importer. 100 MPs voted: 99, none, abstention 1. The proposals and, accordingly, the whole law has been passed.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u33	Colleagues, thank you for your extremely active participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u34	We continue with the next item on the agenda: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE PUNISHING CODEX. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 7 August 2020 Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs Mrs. Alexandrova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 002-01-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 August 2020. At its meeting on 21 October 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 002-01-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 August 2020. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Justice: Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov, who pointed out that in October 2019 the Ministry of Justice received an official notification letter from the European Commission on infringement procedure No 2019/2240 concerning non-compliance with the obligations of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. Point (b) of Article 9 (4) and point (c) of Directive 2013/40/EU on attacks against information systems. It is noted that, according to the findings of the European Commission in the transposition of Directive 2013/40/EU, Bulgaria did not comply with the required maximum threshold of imprisonment, which should be no less than five years, and this threshold is provided for when the acts under art. 4 and 5 of the Directive have caused serious damage or have been committed against an information system which is part of a critical infrastructure. Mr. Stoyanov pointed out that the proposed amendments include updating the regulatory framework for countering computer related crimes under art. 172a, 172b and 173 of the Penal Code against Intellectual and Industrial Property, as well as online child sexual exploitation under art. 155b, 155c and 159, para. 3 of the Penal Code with a view to achieving compliance between the public danger of these crimes and the penalties provided for by the Law. He noted that these crimes should be perceived as acts with a high degree of public danger, not only in the light of the rights and interests of the individual author, which concern, but also in the application of financial losses in particularly large proportions, which affects revenue in the state budget. Sexual exploitation of children increases and spreads through the use of new technologies and the Internet. The bill provides for updating the current legislation of computer and computer-related crimes in the Special Part of the Penal Code (Criminal Code), Chapter Two, Section VIII, Chapter Three, Section VII and Chapter Nine, in order to ensure more adequate protection of the state, business and citizens from unlawful acts affecting their fundamental rights. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u36	Please remain silent in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u37	The Law also provides for a change in the Law on Ecommerce. The discussion was attended by MPs Krum Zarkov, Dimitar Lazarov, Christian Mitev, Christian Vigenin and Anna Alexandrova. Mr. Zarkov pointed out that he would refrain from supporting the bill, according to him, there is a difficulty in proving this kind of crime. MPs Dimitar Lazarov and Christian Mitev expressed support for the bill and noted that some of the provisions between the first and second votes should be refined. Ms. Alexandrova summarized that after all the questions and comments on the bill will propose the establishment of a working group with the participation of all the institutions concerned, and will propose that the deadline for proposals between the first and second votes be the maximum according to art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 13 votes for the Criminal Code, No 002-01-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 August 2020, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, No 002-01-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 August 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. I'm opening the debate on the bill. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In each legislative body, when examining the Penal Code, it should be subject to special attention in so far as it directly concerns the security and freedom of citizens. Here, the proposed Criminal Code draws its ground from a procedure that exists in the European Union or, more precisely, we are threatened by a infringement procedure in relation to the non-transposing of a special directive on attacks against information systems. According to this directive, each Member State must set a certain penalty threshold and we have not complied with those provisions of the Directive. So far, so good. European legislation must be respected, but it is even more important, following it, that we do it sufficiently thoughtfully, so that we not only implement the formal recommendations, but actually achieve the objectives. They are: effective countering a certain type of crime. And here, in this project, we are talking about serious and dangerous crimes, as they are, no doubt, and sexual assaults against minors, and crimes against intellectual property, and computer crimes. However, we fear that there is essentially not much to do, because in order for certain texts of the Penal Code to work, it is clear that they must be, on the one hand, well thought out, on the other hand, proportionate to the public danger, and a systematic proportionate approach of proportionality must be applied between penalties within the Code itself. This is why it is a code. It is a system and it can only be effective as such. The opposite means it just won't work. And our criticism of the Bill is that the fight against these serious crimes will not be improved by anything with the proposals made. I will give you a few examples to convince you of this and tell you that the bill must be revised on the ground if we want it to be effective if we do not just want to tell the European Commission: okay, we have signed what you want us to do. Here's the thing about computer crimes on Chapter Nine. In practice, all these crimes become more severely punishable, more punishments increase. Okay. But everyone knows that the difficulty with them is in proving it, and that won't change anything by raising the penalty. By the way, the concept of penal policy recently adopted by the Council of Ministers says precisely that this way of action with a simple increase in penalties does not bring anything positive. For example, speaking of proportionality and proportionality: all crimes under Chapter 9 which are computer crimes will in fact already be punished more severely than crimes such as coercion, causing death by recklessness. If you only take the new provisions of art. 311f for violation of the Law on Electronic Documents and Electronic Certification Services, currently the penalty is fined up to 5000 BGN, now it is proposed to add imprisonment to it for up to six years. It's a non-compliance with the obligation to store information for a certain period of time. I do not underestimate the importance of these acts, but it cannot be compared to a crime against the person who is causing death by recklessness under art. 122 of the NK is up to five years, here it will be up to six. The existence of proportionality between the severity of the crime and the severity of the penalty here seems impossible to justify. I will give you two examples as to why the bill in its part of crimes against intellectual property is unthinkable. 172a and next from the NK. It is suggested that the punishment for plagiarism be increased. Good. It's been three years. However, the alternative remains a low fine. In practice, this means that it will continue to be possible to apply art. 78a of the Penal Code, which provides for the exemption from criminal liability and the imposition of a fine. In other words, you will change the text, but you will not change anything in practice, most likely. And another thing is created a qualified composition: if the act is done on the Internet, the punishment will be higher. So if you're plagiarizing on paper, cheating on someone's book, or publishing it on paper, it'll be a lot easier to punish if you do the same thing on the Internet. Where is the logic of such an approach? It is also intended to increase the crime, as we said, in three groups of groups, but it is not thought that by increasing the crime, they become heavy, therefore they pass on to another Chamber of the Court, according to art. 28, para. 1 of the PPC, which means that if a transitional provision is not provided for and it is not currently a transitional provision, this means that a huge number of cases will end and they will have to start again before the new criminal assembly. All this raises the big question, ladies and gentlemen, of the way we legislate, especially in the area of criminal law. Understand this does not lead to anything good. The effect is exactly the opposite. And, unfortunately, one of the few good things done by the Ministry of Justice in this mandate is this concept of criminal policy, which I have already mentioned, remains just another strategy written and adopted somewhere that no one respects. This law is proof of that. In the next point, I pay attention to you, there is a Law amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping. Guess what happens between first and second readings in it is changing the Penal Code and creating a completely new composition.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u40	Under the bill, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u41	This is under the bill, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u42	Not the next one, but the one you're looking at.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u43	If you make an effort to hear me through, you'll find it's under the bill. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u44	I'm listening very carefully. Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u45	I repeat and conclude with this, as I see that my words do not give you much interest, but I would like to draw attention to the following: if the Penal Code is not well done and becomes unenforceable, one by hand, it cannot fulfil its objectives, it cannot also carry out the prevention that comes not so much from the amount of punishments as from its inevitability and, in fact, making such changes, you do exactly the opposite of what is at stake in the motives you do not fight against this crime, but you make it possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u46	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Are there lines? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other statements on the bill? Mr. Mitev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, we should, in fact, return to the main motive for offering and, in my opinion, to adopt this bill, namely: on 14 October 2019, the Ministry of Justice received an official notification letter of the European Commission with a corresponding infringement number No 2019/2240 concerning failure to comply with the obligations of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. Point (b) of Article 9 (4) and point (c) of Directive 2013/40/EU on attacks against information systems. According to the findings of the European Commission in the transposition of the Directive, Bulgaria has not complied with the required maximum threshold of imprisonment provided for in the cases referred to in art. 9 paragraph 4 of the Directive, which should be no less than five years. This threshold shall be provided when acts under art. 4 and 5 of the Directive have caused serious damage or have been committed against an information system which is part of a critical infrastructure. In practice, this procedure started last year also provides for the need to adopt this bill. It is true that there are indeed many imperfections in his texts that should, however, be corrected between first and second readings. I agree that some of the increased sanctions, especially not in the Chapter of Computer Crimes, but in the others related to computer crime other acts and in relation to intellectual property crimes, as well as other criminal groups related to computer crime. There, the penalties should be carefully refined, not only automatically increased. The problem with the disproportionateness of penalties in separate configurations of the special part of the Penal Code is not new, it is not from this National Assembly. I would say that it has existed for nearly 30 years, and the only way it can be resolved is as rude as it sounds literally the whole special part of the Penal Code regarding punishments being seriously revised so as not to get these differences, which also colleagues in Legal Committee noted in the discussions on this bill. It is good to review not only the punishments but also the compositions themselves in the Chapter "Computer Crimes" in view of the fact that the method of formulation at this time shows that in many cases it is very difficult to prove, and in some cases it is impossible to prove the compositions of computer crimes committed because of a particular purpose, or because of other elements of the composition that are practically and completely unproven. Once again, these are changes that can and should be made between first and second readings. Given that there has been a criminal procedure in place, I believe that this bill should be supported so that the texts of the directive that I have quoted can be complied with. Accordingly, this makes it possible to improve the editorials in the Chapter of Computer Crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u48	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Are there lines? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm closing the debate on the bill. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 002-01-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 August 2020. They voted 93 MPs: 73, none, 20 abstentions. The bill has been passed. Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, please, on the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to put to the vote an extension of the deadline for proposals between the first and second votes of the bill for amendment and supplement of the Penal Code, No 002-01-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 August 2020 by a further three weeks to become a total of 4 weeks, the maximum possible period, according to our regulations.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u50	A counteroffer? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made to extend the period between the first and second votes on the bill to four weeks. 90 MPs voted: 87, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Ivanov. I beg all MPs to put on their masks.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I am doing a procedure to extend the period between the first and second reading of the Law on Electronic Communications by two weeks to a total of three weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u52	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Is there a counteroffer? I can't see. I put to the vote the proposal to extend the period for proposals between the first and second reading of the Law on Electronic Communications to three weeks. Vote 94 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Belova, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u53	Dear Mr. President, I ask you to put to the vote the proposal for an extension of the deadline between the first and second votes for a proposal of the Wine Act and the vine by three more weeks to become exactly four.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u54	Thank you. Is there a counteroffer? I won't. I put to the vote the extension of the deadline until the second examination of the Bill on Wine and Spirit Drinks by three weeks, a total of four, so the maximum period of four weeks. Vote 92 MPs: for 89, against none, abstention 3. The proposal to extend the deadline has been accepted. Are there any other procedures? I can't see. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CODEX OF TRADE CORRECTION. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 14 August 2020. Adopted in the first vote on 30 September 2020. Mr. Valkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Project for the second vote of the Law amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Transport. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Under § 1, there is a proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... Art. 19 is repealed. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u56	Are there any statements on the name of the Law as well as paragraphs 1 to 4? Anyone? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the title of the Bill; § 1 as amended by the Commission; and paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 by importer. Vote 91 MPs: for 89, against none, abstention 2. The title and paragraphs 1 to 4 have been adopted. We will not continue to examine this bill, Mr. Valkov, unless you provide a representative of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u57	I am doing a procedure, Mr. Chairman, for admission in the hall of Deputy Minister Mr. Veliko Zanchev and the Executive Director of the Sea Administration.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u58	I'm voting for admission in the hall of Mr. Zanchev and Mr. Petrov. Vote 85 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please allow the invited persons to take their seats in the hall. Mr. Valkov, now you can calmly move on.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Under § 5 there is a proposal from Iglika Ivanova-Subeva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MPs Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for § 5 and proposes to form as § 5 and a new § 6: .................................................................................. In Chapter 4 of Article 4. The name is created: § 6. In Chapter 4, Section IIa is created art. 80a.80h: "Marine equipment market surveillance" Art. 80a. (1) The market surveillance of marine equipment shall be carried out in accordance with Chapter III of Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 July 2008 laying down the requirements for accreditation and market surveillance relating to the marketing of products and repealing Regulation (EEC) No 339/93 (OJ L 218, 30 of 13 August 2008). , hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EC) No (2) The market surveillance on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of marine equipment shall be carried out to ensure compliance of marine equipment placed on the market and/or fitted on board a ship flying a Bulgarian flag and to which the international conventions under Article apply. 72, para. 8, the requirements of the Ordinance under art. 72, para. 3, the implementing acts adopted by the European Commission under art. 35 and delegated acts under art. 8, 11, 27 and 36 of Directive 2014/90/EU and international standards on marine equipment and its testing. (3) The Executive Agency shall be a body of maritime equipment market surveillance. Market surveillance shall be carried out by inspectors authorised by the Executive Director of the Agency. (4) The market surveillance of marine equipment shall be carried out by: 1. pre-established by the Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration (Maritime Administration) an annual programme for surveillance of the maritime equipment market; 2. a signal that a marine equipment poses a risk to maritime safety, the environment or health. (5) The market surveillance of marine equipment shall be carried out by: 1. checks on marine equipment documents placed on the market and/or installed on board a ship for the existence and/or compliance with the requirements for: (a) the EU declaration of conformity; (b) the technical documentation, documents issued by organisations notified under art. 72, para. 8 according to conformity assessment procedures as defined in the Regulation under art. 72, para. 3; 2. inspections of marine equipment placed on the market and/or installed on board a ship for the presence and compliance with: (a) the marking 72, para. 3; (b) the information identifying marine equipment, the manufacturer and the importer; (c) instructions and information on the safe installation on board and the safe use of marine equipment, including restrictions on use accompanying marine equipment; (d) the EU declaration of conformity. 3. sampling or sampling of marine equipment and their testing. (6) The checks under para. 5, t. 2 shall be carried out: 1. on board the seaships; 2. in the production premises and in the storage and marketing premises of marine equipment before the installation on board seaships. (7) The inspection of marine equipment which is fitted on board a ship shall be a check in which marine equipment remains on board the ship fully functional. Inspectors' rights in the conduct of market surveillance of marine equipment Art. 80b. (1) The inspectors under art. 80a, para. 3 are entitled: 1. of free access to: (a) the board of seaships flying the Bulgarian flag; (b) commercial establishments and other places of storage and presentation of marine equipment or items of marine equipment placed on the market; (c) production, storage and commercial premises and other places where marine equipment is stored before being installed and/or used on board a ship; 2. require economic operators or, in the case of marine equipment fitted on board a vessel, the master of the vessel or the owner to provide according to their duties: (a) EU declaration of conformity; (b) the technical documentation for marine equipment; (c) documents issued by organisations notified under art. 72, para. 8 in accordance with applicable conformity assessment procedures; (d) instructions and information on the safe installation on board and the safe use of marine equipment, including restrictions on use; 3. to take samples or samples of marine equipment for their testing, including on-site access; 4. to request assistance from the competent authorities of the other Member States of the European Union. (2) The inspectors under art. 80a, para. 3 set a 14-day deadline for the submission of documents and information under para. 1, t. 2 which may be extended up to one month if necessary to provide additional documents and information. (3) The economic operators, the master of the ship and the owner shall ensure access to the seats under para. 1, t. 1 and to provide assistance to the inspectors under art. 80a, para. 3 in the performance of their duties. (4) The inspectors under art. 80a, para. 3: 1. use the documents and information received only for market surveillance purposes; 2. are legitimised when carrying out the checks; 3. participate in the exchange of information with the competent authorities of the other Member States of the European Union; 4. assist the European Commission and the competent authorities of the other Member States. Test of samples or samples of marine equipment Art. 80c. (1) The testing of samples or samples of marine equipment shall be carried out in a laboratory accredited by the Executive Agency "Bulgarian accreditation service', or in a laboratory accredited by an authority of a Member State of the European Union, or a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area. (2) The testing of marine equipment may not be carried out by the organisations notified under art. 72, para. 8 involved in its conformity assessment. (3) The cost of testing shall be borne by the economic operator where the marine equipment does not comply with the applicable technical requirements and standards under art. 80a, para. 2. (4) The cost of testing shall be borne by: 1. The Executive Agency of the Sea Administration (Maritime Administration), when the marine equipment complies with the requirements and standards of para. 1; 2. the economic operator, irrespective of the results obtained, where it is established that: (a) marine equipment shall be without the marking (b) marine equipment shall be without technical documentation; (c) the technical documentation does not contain all relevant data on the means used by the manufacturer to ensure the conformity of marine equipment. Restrictive measures and corrective action on the maritime equipment market Art. 80 years. (1) The Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration and the officials of the Executive Agency on a proposal from the inspectors under art. 80a, para. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, 1. suspension of the provision of marine equipment on the market and/or its installation and its use on board ships flying the Bulgarian flag; 2. prohibition on the making available of marine equipment on the market and/or its installation and its use on board ships flying the Bulgarian flag; 3. withdrawal from the market and/or seizure of marine equipment. (2) The Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration shall, on a proposal from the inspectors under art. 80a, para. 3, depending on the obligations of the economic operator in the supply chain of marine equipment require corrective action to: 1. alignment of marine equipment in accordance with the applicable technical requirements and standards under art. 80a, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2. making available again on the market and/or installation of marine equipment on board a ship if there is no risk to maritime safety, the environment or health; 3. withdrawal from the market and/or seizure of marine equipment. (3) The imposition of restrictive measures under para. 1 and/or corrective actions under para. 2 shall be carried out by order of the Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration or of officials appointed by the Executive Director of the Executive Agency. (4) The orders under para. 3 are subject to appeal under the Administrative Procedure Code. The complaint does not stop their execution. (5) The Executive Director of the Maritime Administration Executive Agency shall temporarily suspend the provision of marine equipment on the market and/or its installation and use on board ships flying a Bulgarian flag for the purpose of assessing the risk to maritime safety, environment or health. In these cases, the inspectors under art. 80a, para. 3 carry out an assessment of marine equipment which covers all relevant technical requirements and standards under art. 80a, para. 2. (6) When in the assessment under para. 5 it is established that the relevant technical requirements and standards under art. are not complied with for marine equipment. 80a, para. 2, the Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration (Maritime Administration) or its officials shall order the economic operator to take the necessary corrective action under para. 2 to eliminate non-compliance within two months. In these cases, art. 21 of Regulation (EC) No 765/2008. (7) Where an economic operator does not take corrective action within the period under para. 6, the inspectors referred to in art. 80a, para. 3 propose to the Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration to impose measures under para. 1 and immediately inform the European Commission and the other Member States. (8) When inspectors under art. 80a, para. 3 establish that the non-compliance is not limited in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria or to ships flying the Bulgarian flag, inform the European Commission and the other Member States of the results of the assessment under para. 5 and the corrective actions under para. 6. (9) In the cases under para. 6 Inspectors under art. 80a, para. 3 inform the relevant organisation notified under art. 72, para. 8 which has carried out conformity assessment of marine equipment for the non-compliance identified. (10) When as a result of the valuation under para. 5 It is established that marine equipment poses a serious risk to maritime safety, the environment or health, art. 22 of Regulation (EC) No 765/2008. (11) When within 4 months of receipt of the information under para. 7 no objection has been raised by a Member State or the European Commission in relation to the temporary restrictive measure, this measure shall be deemed justified. Exchange of information on restrictive measures on the maritime equipment market Art. 80e. (1) Where information has been received on restrictive measures taken by competent authorities of another Member State, the Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration shall immediately inform the European Commission and the other Member States of any measures taken by the Agency and of any additional information that the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration shall have and which is related to the non-compliance of the marine equipment concerned and of the Agency's objections in the event of disagreement with the restrictive measures taken by the other Member State. (2) Where no objection has been received under the restrictive measures taken by the competent authorities of another Member State, or the European Commission has adopted an implementing act stating that the measure is justified, the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration shall immediately apply the restrictive measures and inform the European Commission. Prohibition of the placing on the market of marine equipment where there is a risk to maritime safety, the environment or health Art. 80f. (1) The Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration shall, by order, prohibit the making available of the relevant marine equipment on the market and/or its installation and use on board of seaships flying the Bulgarian flag and shall require an economic operator to take corrective action under Article 2 months from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. 80d, para. 2 when in the order of art. 80d, para. 5 inspectors shall establish that the following conditions are met at the same time: 1. marine equipment shall comply with the applicable technical requirements and standards under art. 80a, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2. marine equipment presents a risk to maritime safety, the environment or health. (2) The Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration shall immediately inform the European Commission and the other Member States of the cases under para. 1. (3) When the European Commission, by an implementing act, decides that the measure under para. 1 is not justified or necessary to take other measures, the Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration shall by order cancel the measure imposed or take the measures determined by the implementing act. (4) Where restrictive measures are taken by competent authorities of another Member State in respect of corresponding products posing a risk, the European Commission shall adopt an implementing act stating that such measures are justified or necessary to take other measures. In such cases, the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration shall immediately take action in accordance with the implementing act. Application of restrictive measures in the event of formal non-compliance with marine equipment Art. 80g. (1) The Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration shall temporarily suspend the provision of marine equipment on the market and/or its installation and its use on board ships flying the Bulgarian flag and shall require the relevant economic operator within two months to take the necessary corrective action under art. 80d, para. 2 when they find that: 1. the marking "Zurval" has not been affixed or has been affixed in violation of the requirements of art. 9 of Directive 2014/90/EU; 2. the EU declaration of conformity has not been drawn up, has not been drawn up correctly or has not been sent to the vessel; 3. the technical documentation is not available or not complete; 4. the type, batch or serial number or other element allowing identification of the equipment is not appropriately applied to the marine equipment and, where the size or nature of the equipment does not permit it, on its packaging and/or in its accompanying document; 5. the name, registered trade name or registered trade mark of the manufacturer and its address and one point of contact with the manufacturer on the equipment or on its packaging and/or in an accompanying document are not adequately indicated; 6. the name, registered trade name or registered trade mark of the importer and its address on the equipment or on its packaging and/or in an accompanying document are not adequately indicated; 7. marine equipment shall not be accompanied by instructions and information necessary for the safe installation on board and safe use of the product, including restrictions on use. (2) Where the corrective actions imposed under art. 80d, para. 2 in the term under para. 1, the Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration and the officials of the Executive Agency shall, by order, impose restrictive measures under art. 80d, para. 1. Information on market surveillance of marine equipment Art. 80z. On the website of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration, the data on marine equipment shall be published, for which an order is issued by the Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration under art. Art. 80 80f, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u60	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. I open the debates on the edited § 5 and the new § 6 proposed by the Commission. Are there any speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. We're putting an end to this debate. I shall put to the vote the texts of § 5 as amended by the Commission and the text of the new § 6 proposed by the Commission. 88 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 3. Paragraph 5 and the new § 6 have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u61	Under § 6 there is a proposal from the MP Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle and proposes the following version of § 6, which becomes § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 90 the 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: (1) When a criminal offence has been committed during the voyage of a vessel under the Criminal Code, the master shall have the right to detain the person suspected of committing a crime until his surrender to the competent authorities in the first Bulgarian port in which the ship arrives. 2. Alinea 2 is canceled. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 8. According to § 8 there is a proposal from the MP Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle and proposes the following version of § 8, which becomes § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 218 the words "order of the ordinance under art. 159, para. 7s and 7s shall be replaced by one of the means referred to in art. 474 para. 1 of the Civil Procedure Code The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 11, and the words
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u62	Are there any statements in paragraphs 6 to 10? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm calling off the debate. I shall put to the vote the texts of § 6, which shall become § 7 by version of the Commission; § 7, which shall become § 8 by importer; § 8, which shall become § 9 by version of the Commission; § 9, which shall become § 10 by importer; § 10, which shall become § 11 by importer, with two words added. They voted 107 MPs: 96, none, abstention 11. Paragraphs 6 to 10 are adopted which are renumbered by paragraphs 7 to 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u63	The Commission shall support the text of the importer in principle and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 374a: Art. 374a. (1) Who does not grant access to the persons under art. 80a, para. 3 to exercise their powers in accordance with the provisions of Section IIa of Chapter 4 shall be punished with a fine of BGN 200 to 500. or with a penalty of 500 to 2000 BGN. (2) In case of repeated infringement under para. 1 is required fine of 400 to 1000 BGN. or a penalty of 1000 to 4000 BGN The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle and proposes the following version of § 12, which becomes § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 374b: Art. 374b. (1) He who fails to comply with him by order under art. 80d, para. 3 restrictive measures and/or corrective actions shall be punished with a fine from 1000 to 2000 BGN. or with a penalty of 2000 to 5000 BGN. (2) In case of repeated infringement under para. 1 fine is from 2000 to 4000 BGN and the charge is from 4000 to 10 000 BGN The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 14. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 15. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 16, and the word.................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u64	I shall open the deliberations referred to in paragraphs 11 to 15 by importer. Are there any speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm calling off the debate. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 11 to 15 by importer, which shall become paragraphs 12 to 16. Vote 108 MPs: for 93, no objection, abstention 15. Paragraphs have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u65	Under § 16 there is a proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer in principle and propose the following version of § 16, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. Paragraph 1a of the additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 40 words "Resolution A.974 (24) adopted by the Assembly of the International Maritime Organisation on 1 December 2005" shall be replaced by "Resolution A.1067 (28) adopted by the Assembly of the International Maritime Organisation on 4 December 2013. 2. They're creating a t. 47 - 57: ..47. It is an equipment of a ship or an element of such equipment. 48. The supply of ship equipment on the European Union market in the course of a commercial activity, whether in return for payment or free of charge, is to be provided on the market. 49. The first provision of maritime equipment on the European Union market was launched on the market. 50. ===Execution===Execution is any measure aimed at achieving the return of marine equipment already installed on board ships flying a Bulgarian flag or purchased with the intention of being fitted on board. 51. It is necessary to ensure that the measures provided for in this Regulation are implemented in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 (2) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 52. "Manufacturer' is a natural or legal person who manufactures marine equipment or who entrusts the design or manufacture of marine equipment and makes it available on the market under its name or trademark. 53. A authorised representative is a natural or legal person established in the European Union who has received a written power of attorney from a manufacturer to act on his behalf in relation to certain tasks. 54. "Important' is a natural or legal person established in the European Union who places marine equipment from a third country on the market of the European Union. 55. "Distributor' is a natural or legal person in the supply chain other than the manufacturer or importer providing marine equipment on the market. 56. The economic operators are the manufacturer, the authorised representative, the importer and the distributor. 57. A written declaration of compliance with an approved type in Bulgarian on the model set out in Annex III to Decision No .?..........................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u66	Are there any statements in the version of § 16, which becomes § 17? I don't see anyone who wants to. I shall put to the vote § 17. They voted 109 MPs: 96, none, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u67	Proposal by Iglika Ivanova-Subeva and a group of MPs. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u68	Please keep quiet and order in the room. Don't force me to call this meeting off for 30 minutes. [[Noise. Communicating: "Eee! "]] We're almost there.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u69	The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to set up a division with the name of "Concluding provisions' with § 18 and 19: "Concluding provisions' § 18. In the Penal Code (prom., SG No. ...) shall be created art. 234d: Art. 234d (1) Whoever carries out the public transport of passengers without authorisation, registration or licence required by a regulation or act of the European Union shall be punished by imprisonment of two to five years, and the motor vehicle used to carry out the act shall be revoked for the benefit of the State, irrespective of whose ownership it is. (2) When the act under para. 1 is carried out by two or more persons who have spoken in advance of its implementation, or by the use of a false or falsified document or a false document, the penalty is imprisonment of five to ten years and a fine of five to fifteen thousand leva, and the court may order and confiscation to one second of the property of the guilty. § 19. In the Law on Road Transport (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 96, para. 2 after the words "without this right', a comma shall be placed and added if the act does not constitute a crime. "
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u70	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. I am debating the name of the new section and the new paragraphs 18 and 19. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Tishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u71	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! So far, we at BSP supported the Bill, as it was about specialized matter. However, the last two paragraphs, which have been proposed, confirm the vicious practice that GERB colleagues use in bills that have nothing to do with the subject, to introduce proposals to amend other laws between first and second readings, which, firstly, does not allow the MPs to give their proposals and, secondly, in this case, we are talking about a change of the Penal Code in the Law amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping. I think it sounds ridiculous. Separately. The penalties, sanctions, which are provided for are: if it is one person from 2 to 5 years effectively, and if it is more than one person from 5 to 10 years effectively. Here with our lawyers, we have commented that there are convictions for murders that are not so severe. However, I think that, according to the law, the penalty should be consistent with the criminal act that has been committed. Therefore, we at the BSP will not support these two paragraphs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u72	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. One remark to your speech "You have not supported anything so far. You voted for everything you've been holding back. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Are there lines? I don't see anyone who wants to. Other speeches. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Chairman, first of all, I ask you not to make the parliamentary group's qualifications about what it supports and what it does not support...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u74	I'm making observations.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u75	...and findings as they are not true. So far, the parliamentary group has supported every single text in the Commercial Shipping Act, so your finding is not true, so you better not make such findings. Now for the lyrics. Dear colleagues, I am asking everyone here to listen really carefully to what we are going to say to you, because when you find out what we are doing right now, I am sure that 90% of you will simply not accept it. There is no way in the Law on Commercial Shipping to change the Criminal Code.. understand there is a Legal Commission in this Parliament. Can we change the law, the penal code? Mrs. Alexandrova, you are the chairman of this committee, please take your attitude? We change the Penal Code in the Law on Commercial Shipping in Transitional and Final Provisions, where we say that violations. "Yes, indeed this is a problem, illegal transport is a problem in Bulgaria, undoubtedly. But how many times have we seen the Car Transport Act? How many times, including in the program for the week, have you changed the Penal Code? How many amendments are waiting for the Penal Code? There you could not find a place and now between first and second readings in the Law, which is seen only in the Transport Commission, you are making changes to the Penal Code. You're making changes that you notice from five to ten years in prison. Here, fellow lawyers are likely to take a stand. Really, five to ten years in prison, maybe for murder, there's no such punishment.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u76	It's two to five years old.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u77	It's two to five when you drive one person, and when you ride more than two, it's five to ten. [[Replications from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] Mr. Ivanov, please don't take offense. If you want to make a line for me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u78	Don't engage in dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u79	I call on you, I call on the ruling majority, to reject this text, to be tabled in due order. During this time together "The Legal, Transport Committees, let's sit down and really solve this problem of illegal transportation, because the problem is not to punish the person. The problem is they can't get caught by the control organs, they can't find out until now. If you ask a question to the Ministry of Transport, I don't know if there is a representative in the Chamber, how many intruders are caught on this article to be punished, you will see that there is none. So how do we impose a prison of two to five or five to ten when they can't get caught? Who are you punishing? Or are we just taking a text to scare someone not to do anything? I'm telling you again, guys, there's a problem with illegal transportation. It has to be resolved. We are ready to participate in this process. We support both the carriers and the victims of these illegal shipments because there are also victims. But we can't just accept a violation like that. Tomorrow, each of you can be a victim of this law. Now that I've picked up two men and taken them to Eagle Bridge, I'm an intruder with the ones I've picked up. So really think about it. If I have to, I don't know, just don't accept it and sit down and think about solving the problem of carriers and Bulgarian citizens who would fall victim to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u80	Thank you. Are there lines? I can't see. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov. Mr. Ivanov, aren't you quarantined? What are you doing here? [[Laughter and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u81	You're incriminating him.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u82	Okay, I'm thinking about your health, Mr. Svilensky, because it's right behind you. [[Noise and lines.]] Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u83	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the submitted proposal of the People's Representative Iglika Sabeva and a group of MPs were received opinions from competent institutions. My colleagues have tried to pay attention to some aspects, I have tried on a previous point, now I just want to introduce you to the opinions that you may not have had time to see, because so done the Bill, with this technique, there is not much time to discuss. According to the Ministry of Justice, it expresses many reservations about these texts, which have been proposed and proposed a new version. There's no way to do that. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u84	Please remain silent in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u85	...new editing since the Bill was submitted directly at second reading and there is no possibility of that. If you don't trust the Justice Department, since you didn't trust my colleagues, look at the opinion of the Supreme Court of Cassation. I quote: The project is premature and probably inappropriate with the new criteria for a ratio between criminal and administrative criminal liability. The Supreme Court of Cassation draws attention to the concept of penal policy, which I had the honour of having just failed to address you and which has been adopted by your government. If you do not believe in the Supreme Court of Cassation, as do my colleagues, the Ministry of Justice, see what the Supreme Council of Law says: "Conflict with the Constitution, faults from a criminal-law point of view. Something more dangerous is incriminating acts that you wouldn't want to incriminate, trying to solve an essential problem, doing it quickly and without sufficient preparation, you incriminate the shared economy, the shared journey. What the whole world promotes as cost-effective, more legal and nature-friendly, you're going to put people in jail for this, and you're doing it unconsciously, because in the motives you specifically say you don't want to do this. And the Lawyers' Council, people who deal with criminal justice, tells you that's exactly what's going to happen. If you don't believe the Supreme Council of Law, as you don't trust my colleagues, as you don't trust the Ministry of Justice and as you don't believe the Supreme Court of Cassation, read what the Attorney General has written to you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u86	Please remain silent in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u87	The Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office, according to them, also reminds the criminal concept, the regulatory requirement for compliance with the principles of necessity, justification and proportionality, reminding it, they want to say that you do not respect them, and they say that there are legal prerequisites for identical offences to treat offenders in a uniform manner, in a different order and with a different burden of sanctions. I conclude that we don't pick on each other and we just want to tell you: that's not how it's done. And you're not just solving the problem, you're deepening, you're fooling people who suffer from this parallel economy, you're fooling people who suffer from this type of transportation that you're doing something to help them. But not just us, but all of us, including the Supreme Prosecutor's Office, say, quote: "Following such an approach makes the criminal repression more effective. "The result of this text will be that it will be even more difficult to prevent this problem. Mr. Svilenski paid attention to the nature of the problem, namely it is the work of the control bodies and how these types of violations are detected. Start catching them and then think about punishing them. There are enough provisions in special laws. The same was true of the previous text. The consequences of this work, fellow Members of Parliament, are that the phenomena we are supposed to be fighting are actually flourishing and flourishing, and we are spinning the same tablet. The result is devastating.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u88	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Are there any lines? Is there anything in Mr. Zarkov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u89	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My speech will be somewhat a continuation of what Mr. Zarkov and Mr. Svilensky started just now. I will really poison the colleagues of the ruling majority: this law in this part will not be passed, it will be reviewed and a text will be submitted which answers both the Bulgarian Constitution and the concept of criminal law in the Bulgarian state. My appeal is to all the lawyers in this room because, by accepting such a thing, we will change the theory of criminal law at all, which is taught in the universities by the students in the second year. I apologize, but beyond what Mr. Zarkov quoted you as opinions here at the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office, the Supreme Court of Cassation, the Council of Law and so on, completely alters the essence of criminal repression. You know what is written in every textbook on criminal law, that the severity of the crime must respond accordingly to the punishment that is required. You are currently incriminating something that has not been incriminated to date, and an absolute disproportionate burden of punishment is required. Find out, for murder by recklessness is given less punishment what you give. Open the Criminal Code for Inattentive Murder is given less punishment than you impose for the ride of two people in a car. You are very hardly passing the border of the administrative criminal liability and criminal liability. It's really hard, you know? Our appeal is quite accurate and clear that this is not happening today. Understand, you will remain in history as the people who have changed the Penal Code in one direction, which neither the legislator, who you are at the moment, nor the way in which those who wrote the Constitution, have referred to inside what penalties and what they should correspond to, they and the authors of the Penal Code, will not understand you and can not even hand it over to their students. Our appeal is for common sense, as Mr. Zarkov said. We don't mess around here. It is simply our request that you do not make such grand mistakes, because otherwise it will turn out that there are not gaps between you and criminal law, but gaps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u90	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines to Mr. Ivanov's statement? For a line, Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ivanov, honourable colleagues! Mr. Ivanov, I want to give an example, and you as a lawyer to tell colleagues and Bulgarian citizens whether such a person would fall under the blows of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u92	Do you disagree?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u93	Yeah, disagreement. Disagreement on that, that's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u94	With what? Get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u95	If every morning, coming to work to the National Assembly, the Pliska will pick up Mr. Simeonov because he is trying to replicate me from behind and Mr. Ivanov, as colleagues, and I am driving them to the National Assembly every day at 8.00 pm, three times in a row "Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, next Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, and I am bringing them to the Bulgarian National Assembly, but on Friday Mr. Simeonov decided to send a signal against me that I am carrying out an unauthorized public transport, do I fall under the blows of this text? More than two people, at the same time, every day at 8:00 a.m., every morning, regularly, on the schedule of public transportation on the road, because on the Constantinople there are a lot of buses. Does such a person fall under the blows of the law? The same applies to a parent who, each morning, for example, drives three or four children from the block to school. Every morning at 8:00 a.m. on a bus route, picked them up and drove them. Do I fall under the law of public transportation, at the same time, regularly, every day? Mr. Ivanov, please respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u96	What was your disagreement? Can you explain it to us now? There was no disagreement on the substance.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u97	Mr. Simeonov, you and I can talk after the plenary session. How many times do we have to explain ourselves...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u98	I'm warning you, I'll stop you next time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u99	Well, cut me off.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u100	Are there any other lines? I can't see. Of course, you have the back, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u101	Dear Mr. Leading the meeting, if you write a new rule here, Adhok, it's a completely different matter. I don't think you should be doing this. Let's get back to the douche bag. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Svilensky, your question is quite clear, at least because the composition of the crime is unclear. You know that the Penal Code has been set for years by certain norms, and this norm, which is currently being imposed, is not clear at all. Whether or not you will be brought to justice will be difficult to answer, because it will be difficult for your fellow importers to answer. But there's certainly a chance that a prosecutor will call you and bring you a case for seven years to walk you around as a witness and as a defendant, and whatever you think of, it's not small. A lot can happen in the meantime. The worst thing can happen to you lying more than a murderer could be lying, unfortunately, about what you're talking about right now. The composition of the crime is unclear and you are introducing a vague law-of-crime rule of law. You are simply changing the philosophy of criminal law. This is happening today, colleagues, and Mr. Svilensky is right. And he's not the only one asking that question. Everyone else will ask it from now on. God forbid someone pay Mr. Svilenski the fuel, say, "Coworker, because you're driving me, here's $2 to pay you for the fuel, then you'll definitely get arrested, Mr. Svilenski." That goes for everyone in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u102	Are there any other speeches? Mr. Mitev. [[Heckling]] Who else? Here, Mr. Mitev, I give you my word. The next one will be Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! From what I hear as a discussion here, I come to the conclusion that either colleagues on the left have not read the texts carefully or read them as the devil reads the Gospel. Firstly, nowhere in these examples that have been given will you fall in any way into the composition as it is regulated, as the shared journey is not a public carriage of passengers. Secondly, in terms of formulation, I think that the text is very clear and neither does it change the philosophy of criminal law, nor does it change what frackishly happens. On the contrary, what is being pursued is a legitimate objective to limit illegal transport and that public transport of passengers carried out by natural and legal persons without the relevant authorisation and without the relevant licence. In this way, the only thing that it does is practically ruin the competitive environment and all those carriers who have undergone the licensing procedure, which has been granted a valid permit, are actually bankrupt precisely as a result of dumped prices and unfair competition from this grey, I would even say a black sector in the public transport market. So it is quite logical that this proposal is and should be supported. I am surprised at this stubborn and unfounded resistance from the left side of the room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u104	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Mitev, I am sorry that you are a lawyer and support this text. First, let us say what public passenger transport is and what this change is about. When carrying out transport along the public transport route, urban transport or other transport at the same time, on a scheduled basis, on the given route for payment, you fall. So I gave you the example: every morning you pick up three children of your neighbors and drive them to school. Because you're the only one driving them, your parents give you two levs or three levs for gasoline to split the gas. You fall under this text. Do you understand that, or don't you? Because every morning at 8:00 a.m. on the bus route, like 306 you take three people and take their money and you fall in. That's why I'm saying your text doesn't work. So I asked: how many intruders are caught on this journey right now? [[Heckling]] I agree with you that this measure must be taken against illegal shipments in any way, that it kills those who are licensed, but that is not the way. Again, is there an analysis? I don't see anyone coming from the Ministry of Transport. Now I don't see anyone saying how many people they've captured, how many intruders? There's a D.I.A., there's a D.A., there's a D.A., there's a D.A., there's a D.A., there's a D.A., there's a D.A., there's a D.A., there's a D.A., there's a D.A., there's a D.A., there's a D.A., there's a D.A. That's not a problem since yesterday or today. This problem has been for 20 years. How many checks did they do, how many intruders did they catch? And because the punishment is low, they continue to do it the second and third time. [[Heckling]] That is why I say that this debate should be held both in the Transport Commission, only by other laws and not under the Law on Commercial Shipping and in the Legal Commission. And I really appeal...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u106	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u107	...jurist from GERB to come out and say you support the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u108	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u109	You're very strict, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u110	Yeah, I'll be strict with you now. Second line, Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Mitev, I appeal to you to note that there is a definition of what public transport is and what passenger transport is in the Car Transport Act. It states: "Societal transport is a transport for a foreign account or for a payment or for an economic benefit which is carried out by a motor vehicle. "A carriage of passengers is: "A activity by a person who performs services for the transport of passengers by motor vehicles, again for a foreign account or for a payment, or for an economic benefit.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u112	Mr. Tzipov, your statement is not a question of substance.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u113	On the contrary, I want to...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u114	You confirm what Mr. Mitev said.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u115	I want Mr. Mitev to explain very clearly what the form of the act of execution is.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u116	In private, ask him. Do you essentially have any objection?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u117	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u118	Mr. Danchev's third line. [[Relations from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] Be quiet in this room so I don't remove you for one sitting! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u119	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mitev, you are surprised that we will not support this proposal for a change in the Criminal Code, which also concerns the Law on Road Transport. It's not surprising to me, and I'll tell you why at least two reasons. The first is that this law was completely changed at the beginning of this year after a very long one, including a public discussion, after a very long and diligent work of a huge working group, which included representatives of at least several institutions, including, of course, all those who have a cashiership on the topic............................. and the Ministry of Transport, the Justice Ministry, the KAT and so on. I ask myself: why was this change not made then "after this public discussion, but now it has to be introduced as some kind of proposal between first and second reading of a completely different law? And I'll tell you why.. because there is a misunderstanding on the subject between the authorities which are supposed to apply this provision afterwards. And it is becoming very clear that I regret that Mr. Zarkov, as an experienced lawyer and parliamentarians, was not at the meeting of the Transport Commission to see this literally circus played out because it became clear that the Transport Ministry and the Ministry of Justice...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u120	What is your objection to the substance of Mr. Mitev's statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u121	That's right. That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u122	You have the right to speak in which you can expose the whole story. What are you doing right now?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u123	That's right, I'm explaining to Mr. Mitev why he's wrong.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u124	So far, you've expressed no dissent on the substance. Express your disagreement about this is the line. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Don't call from the gym, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u125	And that is why, Mr. Mitev, you should have heard how the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Justice cannot agree with each other which provision it is really about and which illegal carriers will be sanctioned.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u126	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u127	By which member of the Car Transport Act will they be in violation of the Code of Criminal Law? Indeed, no changes are made in this way, and do not be surprised why we will not support them.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u128	Mr. Danchev, your objection is: if you were there, you would see. It's just that it's not serious. Objection to the substance of Mr. Mitev's statement you should have done. A hole, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Tzipov, you are right, it was indeed incorrect of me that I did not quote the relevant provision of the Road Transport Act, where the definitions are given what is the public transport of passengers and the transport of passengers. With that, I'm actually going to answer Mr. Svilensky's line. In practice, all these hypotheses that you give them do not correspond in any way to what we heard as a quote from Mr. Tzipov. We have neither economic benefits nor economic benefits here on what is called a shared journey.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u130	Isn't that two leva?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u131	No one takes me two levs and where is the economic benefit, provided that you neither pay the driver's labor nor pay the full consumption, such as fuel consumption, nor pay the depreciation of the vehicle? None of this is happening! [[Relations from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] You don't have the norm of profit. You don't have the norm of profit. None of these elements, which are specified in the definition of the Law on Road Transport of Public Transport of Passengers, are not available in this case. [[Relations from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] As regards the way in which the relevant control bodies have been carried out so far, that is why amendments to the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments are proposed............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. If these amendments are adopted at second reading, I am sure that administrative criminal responsibility and activity will be improved, but the problem is not only that. In practice, the implementation of criminal liability is not in any way linked and is not linked to the previously realised administrative-criminal liability. If the act concerned has a high degree of public danger, it will accordingly be classified as a criminal offence and not as an administrative offence and the corresponding composition of the Criminal Code will be applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u132	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Yes, in the manner of holding Mr. Ivanov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u133	Mr. President, I am addressing you because today what you have demonstrated here in this Chamber violates the Rules for the most part. Nowhere in the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Host, because you are not the President, but the President of the sitting at the moment, there is no version of censorship of the Members of the National Assembly. [[GERB lines.]] This tribune is here, Mr. Leading at the meeting, that every MP should express his will from this tribune, express his opinion and he is not responsible, including a penalty, which we will now place on a number of unhappy people who will ride their friends and perhaps have to give them two levs for driving them. That's gonna happen in a minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u134	Stop lying!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u135	Don't say that!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u136	Your job is to interrupt them when the people's representative is speaking, not interrupt the people's representative when he expresses his opinion on a particular topic. That's why we're making a serious remark. You're allowing this thing to happen systemically, Mr. Leader. This isn't the first time. In your case, the violation of the Rules is now systematic. Understand it! And to those colleagues who will support this bill, graduates are entitled and have diplomas for legal education, if they vote, let them return to the relevant universities because they are for a couple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u137	Here you are again violating the Rules of Procedure, and you are addressing your fellow Members as to how to vote. Now I'm gonna use my right to two minutes. I won't use two minutes, but I'll explain to you that I don't impose any censorship on anyone. I apply the Rules of Procedure as you have accepted it and we have all accepted it. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] In this respect, I do not accept a qualification for censorship. You may have that opinion, but it doesn't answer the truth. And two. That every MP has the right to his own opinion is so, but only on the subject discussed, Mr. Ivanov. Everyone can't say whatever they want when they want to. I give the floor to Mr. Danchev for a statement. [[Relations from the National Representative Dimitar Danchev.]] You're giving up? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u138	Dear fellow importers, undoubtedly in the public relations discussed there are anomalies in transport, in the shared travel, there are at all many gaps, there are unfair competition. But criminal law is a nuclear bomb that can be dropped on a public problem. Punitive coercion is the most severe instrument the state uses, and it is the last instrument it has to use because the reasons for having these problems in the transport sector is far from criminal policy. By introducing this penal repression, you are creating a whole new class of public problems that BSP colleagues are talking about, which professional guilds, lawyers, lawyers and so on. And in this case, the means do not justify what you are using does not justify the purpose you are pursuing. You want to please the transport industry. Okay, that's good, but you're not going to achieve that goal. I understand why you do it, because these public relations are complex and their solution requires a lot of work at different levels, the problem is complex. But by introducing this penal repression, you achieve the opposite.. You transfer responsibility to the prosecution. This takes 20 minutes of debate in the Chamber, one text, clear is your conscience in front of the transport industry, you have satisfied their demands, the problem has already been transferred to another authority of the Prosecutor's Office, to walk it to hand out criminal repression respectively to the judiciary. That's not the right approach. In criminal policy, and who is a lawyer, understands it, increasing and introducing criminal repression is not disproportionate to reducing the frequency of the act. And that makes sense, it's a proven practice, every lawyer understands why it is. You'll give five, ten years, you'll make people bigger criminals for the justice system than people who've taken people's lives. After all, you break the balance, you violate a number of legal principles, but what do you achieve in the end? There is no shame in admitting that the path you have taken is not right, and giving up this approach and try, although it is harder, to solve the problem as it should be. I urge you to give up this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u139	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Are there any lines? Mr. Svilensky, a line? A brief objection to the substance, I would like to remind you of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u140	It's short, short, two minutes. How short is it? Whatever the rules say. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Bojankov! I do not agree with you that the problem is being transferred to the prosecution and that the prosecutor given will solve the problem of illegal transport. Because at the moment, three or four authorities are watching for this problem and there are no intruders caught, the National Revenue Agency, the Executive Agency, and there are no intruders caught! The D.A. can't catch the intruder, he can't stop the vehicle. It must, together with all these bodies, jointly, that is, we are now proposing another one, to establish this thing. So I disagree with you that the problem will be solved by transferring it from these three or four authorities to the prosecution. On the contrary, it's even more difficult. Moreover, it becomes impossible to find it and even more impossible to solve the problem of illegal transports, for which, honourable colleagues of GERB, we have the will to solve the problem, simply the correct approach has not been found. It's normal for something to go wrong sometime, understand that. I appeal once again to withdraw, not to accept the text or whatever parliamentary practices there are. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u141	Mr. Svilensky, a brief objection to the substance of the statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u142	A minute and sixteen seconds...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u143	You may have a minute, but you can't say whatever you want.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u144	A minute and sixteen seconds... [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off. Single applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u145	Release the stands! Are there any other lines? I won't. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'll give it to you. Let's finish the line-and-bottom procedure. Are there any other lines? I won't. Mr. Ivanov, do you have a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u146	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bojankov, I disagree with you because you neglected to make one comparison with other penalties for crimes that are far more severe. I'll just read to you...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u147	Objection to the point, not what he missed.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u148	That's basically what he missed in his speech... [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]] Stop being censor!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u149	Please talk to you! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u150	I'll read to you, Mr. Bojankov, art. 122 of the Penal Code: The one who causes death by recklessness is punished by imprisonment for up to five years.... Mr. Bojankov up to five years, and here we punish them from five to ten if death is caused by firearms or a highly active poisonous substance, imprisonment is from one to six years............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I apologize very much, colleagues, but you're totally mistaking the philosophy of criminal law. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u151	This was an objection to the substance of the statement. Are there any other lines? I can't see. Mr. Bojankov, can you use your coat? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u152	Dear colleagues replicating, perhaps I remained misunderstood in my hypothesis that this is exactly what will happen. A whole class of new public problems will open up without solving, stressing the main problem. And I go back to the statistics, which is a fact in criminal law, the upliftment of criminal repression does not result in a disproportionate reduction in the frequency of the act, because the roots of this problem are quite elsewhere. The government's actions in this case show management infirmity. They cannot give a working solution to the working sector, they cannot offer a policy that regulates these public relations, so they transfer the problem to the prosecution, which I have not claimed to solve. She won't solve it, and that will only cause new problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u153	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Are there any other speeches? The way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u154	Dear Mr. Chairman, you once received a remark from a fellow Member of the National Assembly, and I allow myself to make it a second time. Don't overstep your rights! You are currently presiding and have absolutely no right to comment, nor to interrupt me in a minute and twenty seconds, nor to yell at me behind me. How does Mr. Hristov, when he is holding a meeting, have no problems, and when you are holding a meeting, you are constantly making the room nervous?! [[Noise and lines.]] Why don't you just take it easy, calm down, if you need to, get some rest. Mr. Hristov, please take over the meeting to complete the Law as we must.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u155	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. I can tell you that I'm not overstepping my rights. It's my mandatory rule of law. I have to follow the rules, and that's why I'm elected here. And with regard to whether or not I can interrupt you in a minute and twenty seconds, I can interrupt you in the 20th second, if you do not speak in substance or if you deviate from the issue discussed and this is regulated in several places in the Rules. You know that very well. Are there any other statements? Mrs. Sabeva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u156	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Before I clarify the substance of the changes we have proposed, which are important and necessary, I feel it is necessary to make two clarifications in order for the audience to be aware of the actual legal situation. From the beginning of the year to the present time, 145 driving licences have been revoked and stopped from moving 145 cars. The next clarification I would like to make is in relation to the raised opinions of the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Supreme Council of Law. I would like to make it clear to the audience that these opinions are given in the proposed changes to art. 93, not in art. 96, which we now propose to change to make the audience aware of the actual legal situation. Our proposals for amendments to the Criminal Code govern important public relations by regulating the implementation of public carriage of passengers requiring authorisation of registration or authorisation to be issued under the relevant laws or regulations or acts of the European Union in breach of those requirements. Such actions damage important public relations affecting the security of persons using such services, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, this reflects and escalates to affect the interests of the State in terms of damage to the treasury. We also propose a corresponding amendment to the Car Transport Act, which distinguishes administrative criminal liability and the amendments to the Criminal Code provided for in our proposals. The aim we are pursuing is to limit and minimise unauthorised shipments. These are transports that are based on established transport schemes, public transports, for which there is a definition that colleagues have quoted, and I will not repeat it, I think it became clear to the audience, when they are carried out without the relevant document, license or registration for carrying out the transport. The changes will solve a problem that has existed for a long time, has been discussed in the Ministry of Transport, as well as with representatives of the industry. At present, the existing mechanisms by which the State reacts to these unregulated transports are insufficient "all became clear, as well as insufficiently effective, creating serious problems among businesses not only from the point of view of the economic activity of the operators concerned, but also from the point of view of the users of these services. The proposed changes will solve this major problem that has existed for years and that the state should react with all the mechanisms at its disposal. Undoubtedly, once it is established that the administrative punishment does not achieve the necessary effect to deter the legal entities and to prevent them from being prevented from acting contraryly, which could affect the life and health of the Bulgarian citizens, it is to proceed to more serious measures by establishing the relevant compositions in the Criminal Code. According to the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, this text is the only possible option to deal with transports when they are carried out without relevant required documents. When the State takes measures, namely to assist bus carriers, which are currently being made and 30 million are being provided. leva, it has to provide the whole complex of mechanisms... [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u157	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u158	...so that it wouldn't turn out to be a measure of purpose. Only then will the state be in its place, namely when it provides for the possibility of support not only financially, but also to limit any illegal practice that would lead to undesirable consequences. The Ministry of Transport supports, the Ministry of Justice supports the proposal in principle, all industry representatives agree and demand the proposed changes, these demands are absolutely justified. The Confederation of Bus Carriers says that this text is very important to everyone because we are currently in an absurd situation where the State grants 30 million. BGN to help bus transport, and these funds can actually sink into unregulated transport if we do not control this process. I would like to make it clear that in our proposals for changes to the factual situation that we have in mind is the presence of organised groups that carry out this type of transport which offer this kind of service without being licensed. I want this to be clearly distinguished from the pure form of shared travel where people really travel on a friendly basis.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u159	Get it over with.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u160	Therefore, for this wicked practice, I believe that it should be terminated. We should distinguish the administrative criminal liability of drivers who are not provided with the relevant documents and the changes proposed by us, which concern any criminal responsible person who organises such transports without authorisation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u161	Get it over with, Mrs. Sabeva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u162	I therefore call on you to support the changes we have proposed. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u163	Are there lines? Mr. Danchev, come in. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u164	Dear Mrs. Sabeva, it has not become clear to me from your speech and I will therefore ask you to confirm that I have understood you correctly. In fact, from what you said, I understand that they have gone wrong or at least did not understand what it was about and therefore gave incorrect opinions to the Supreme Court of Cassation, the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Supreme Council of Law and the Ministry of Justice. They're all wrong, but you've figured out what it's about, what the public problem you want to be solved, and they've gone wrong. Is it correct what I understand from your statement or not? I would like to say to you that I am very surprised at your self-confidence to confirm such a proposal once again, here in the Chamber, provided that the authority that I have to enforce and which should pursue such crimes.. The Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria has actually expressed a negative opinion on your proposal. Do you really think that this proposal, this legal change, will work, since the authority that should apply it, does not understand it that way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u165	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Second line, Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Sabeva, it has really become clear that you as an importer do not know what you have imported, and you do not know what problem you want to solve, i.e. the problem you described, but with what you offer I am sorry. These 30 million, which the Ministry of Transport provides to support transport, cannot go to unregulated transports, and they go to the licensed ones, to the regulated ones. They can't go to the unauthorized. This argument I just don't know why you brought it in?! You said, "You know, it's 145 checks." 145 caught or disordered. There are three hundred municipalities in Bulgaria, this makes half a check, half an intruder of a municipality. Given that from Sofia to Pernik every morning, if you go to a Russian monument, they are constantly travelling such transports, not to mention every single locality, each MP knows the problem in his electoral area, that is to say for a whole municipality for a year half of the intruder?! What are you gonna do, punish who, who are you gonna scare? Don't you have to catch these people first, to impose on them the penalties they currently have, whatever they are low, high! Confiscation of a car or stop is not a small punishment, by the way. And then, when you see that this measure doesn't work, you apply the other one, the heavy one you want, 10, 15, 20, for life, if you want to put them in jail as much as you want, but you didn't go the other way, colleagues. There is no way with half a municipality check per year to summarize that this measure will solve the problem. So you and your statement proved ours that there are no checks, that there are no penalties, that this will not solve the problem, that these 30 million will not go into these unregulated but will go to regulated shipments. And the most important thing is the Bulgarian citizens...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u167	Get it over with!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u168	...they saw who was the bearer of who was the man who wanted to put them in prison for five to ten years.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u169	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Are there any other lines? Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u170	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Ivanova-Supreva, I understand that you are guided by the principle of the path to hell is paved with good wishes. I understand that you want to solve a problem that the administration obviously hasn't been able to solve for reasons of either idleness and your job as governors is to control them and get them to work because Mr. Svilenski told you that your statistics are, and he's very right, 0.5 members of the municipality. And you don't understand what you want to do. You probably haven't consulted your lawyers that the severity of the punishment should correspond to the severity of the crime, because you are currently creating a new composition of crime and a new crime, and I don't know if you understand that our criticism of you is directed not to not do the job, but because you want with a rifle for elephants to kill a fly. Understand me, I didn't accidentally read you a text from the Penal Code, where for murder they give less than you want for someone for driving someone in their car and giving them two levs eventually. And the prosecution will be created so much work that she doesn't know how to do it and has given you a negative opinion. Really, really, one more time, I'm calling you, and this thing disappears. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u171	Well, it can't disappear, but... It's a hole. [[Heckling]] If you propose a postponement of the vote or any other procedure, it may be postponed.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u172	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable gentlemen replicating! For these two leva, I do not intend to comment again. It was said by fellow Christian Mitev what it is about. I guess the co-workers don't want to know. I just want to make further clarification on Mr. Danchev's line on the prosecution's opinions, I didn't even mention it, I mentioned the Supreme Council of Law and the Supreme Court of Cassation. I wanted to draw attention to the audience that these opinions were given under the Law of Mr. Stanislav Ivanov, which was submitted February month and where it is a matter of art. 93, not for Art. 96 in the Road Transport Act. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] On our proposal there is an opinion of the Ministry of Justice which generally supports the Bill. And as for these checks... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u173	Please don't call from the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u174	And regarding these checks, which were commented that there were no checks, I was quoting you: So I think all the lines to my statement were unfounded. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Sabeva. Are there any other speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm calling off the debate. We are going to vote on the name of paragraph "Concluding provisions" as well as the texts of § 18 and § 19 which are new on a proposal from the Commission. Voting mode. Vote 119 MPs: 88 against 28, abstention 3. And the last texts of the Bill have been passed, with which the Law has been passed. [[Replicates from the BSP for Bulgaria "Procedure!"]] Don't worry, I'll give you the floor. You seem nervous. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm doing a re-voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u177	Revoting procedure. They voted 114 MPs: 84, against 28, abstention 2. The proposal has been adopted and the bill has been passed with this. [[General applause from GERB.]] Negative vote please, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I voted against it because this practice, which was introduced in both the previous National Assembly and in this Legislature, through transitional and final provisions to change codes, to create a new composition of crime, is absolutely wicked. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u179	A little order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u180	This is up to the Chair of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u181	Please keep order in the hall and take your seats! This meeting isn't over.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u182	I voted against it because no public discussion has been held. I voted against the negative opinions of the law enforcement authorities. It is unacceptable, once again, through Transitional and Final Provisions...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u183	I ask the Quaestors to return the MPs to their seats!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ...through transitional and final provisions to draw up a new composition not anywhere but in the Penal Code, which basically defines the penal policy of the Republic of Bulgaria. This thing that is happening here today in Parliament shows once again the legislative powerlessness of the ruling majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-28.u185	Thank you. Second negative vote? I don't see anyone who wants to. Third? I won't either. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda, I am adjourned. The next meeting of the National Assembly is on 29 October at 9.00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
