ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members. Please, registration mode. In the meantime, I will be reading the colleagues who are online with us today. Hello, everyone! Anna Alexandrova? I don't see her. Valentin Kasabov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u2	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u3	Vejdi Rashidov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u4	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u5	Georgi Kolev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u6	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u7	Daniela Dimitrova? He's not here. Ivelina Vassileva?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u8	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u9	Yordan Apostolov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u10	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u11	Konstantin Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u12	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u13	Mladen Shishkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u14	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u15	Plamen Nunev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u16	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u17	Eight MPs registered online. Have all the colleagues in the Chamber been able to register? Abort registration and announce the result. Vote 119 MPs in the Chamber, 8 registered online, became 127. Quorum 64. There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] My fellow Members, I will make several procedural proposals: On the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the following additional points be included in the weekly Work Programme of the National Assembly: Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act. Importer Ivelina Vassileva and a group of MPs on 23 October 2020. Adopted in the first vote on 13 November 2020, I propose to become the fourth item for today's meeting. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure. The Council of Ministers adopted the first vote on 29 October 2020, and I propose that it become the second item for the plenary session tomorrow, 20 November 2020. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Personal Aid Act. Importer on 10 November 2020. Adopted in the first vote on 13 November 2020, I propose to become the third item for the plenary session tomorrow, 20 November 2020. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Execution of Punishments and Detention. Importer Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs on 13 November 2020, I propose to become the fourth item for the plenary session tomorrow, 20 November 2020. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Aid Act. Importer on 10 November 2020. Adopted in the first vote on 13 November 2020, to become point 6th of the Council of Ministers on Friday, 20 November 2020. Please, voting mode. I'm addressing my colleagues who are online. Anna Alexandrova? I don't see her. Mr. Kasabov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u18	OJ L
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u19	Vejdi Rashidov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u20	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u21	Georgi Kolev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u22	Yeah. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u23	Guys, please keep it down, it's too loud in the hall! Ivelina Vassileva?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u24	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u25	Yordan Apostolov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u26	OJ L
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u27	Konstantin Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u28	OJ L
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u29	Mladen Shishkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u30	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u31	Plamen Nunev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u32	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u33	Daniela Dimitrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u34	Yeah. Abort the vote and announce the result. Voted in the House 119 MPs and online 9 became 128 MPs: for 110 plus 9 online, it became 119, against 8, abstention 1 The motion is accepted. Once again, what you see as quorum 60 is not real. Here we add the votes online that have registered, the quorum is 64. I propose that point five in the Programme for today, 19 November 2020, be the second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Family Code. The Council of Ministers adopted the first vote on 23 September 2020, with the remaining points foreseen for today's and tomorrow's plenary sitting being renumbered accordingly according to the present and previous vote. Mr. Ivanov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u35	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, in view of the forthcoming vote, I am doing a roll call procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u36	We start the name check backwards: Yavor Rumenov Bojankov- absent Yavor Bozhilov Notev- here Yulian Mihailov Papasimov- here Julian Krastev Angelov- here Chavdar Yordanov Velinov- here Tsvetan Borisov Topchiev- absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva- here Hristo Tanchev Prodanov- absent Hristo Georgiev Gajev-here Hristian Radev Mitev- here Hassan Ahmed Ademov - absent Hamid Barry Hamid-- absent. Halil Rexepov Letifov is absent Hayri Recepov Sadakov- absent Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Thomas Nikolov Tomov- absent Toma Lubomirov Bikov- here Todor Baychev - absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva- here Teodora Atanasova Halacheva- absent Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov- absent Tanya Todorova Petrova- here Tanner Mehmed Ali is missing. Stoyan Radkov Bojinov- here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev- absent Stay Mitev Stoynov- here Stefan Ivanov Burgeev - absent Stefan Apostolov - here Stanislava Krasimirova Stoyanova- here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - absent Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov- here Stanislav Ivanov Stoyanov- here Stanislav Ivanov Popov- here Save Yanev Panchev- here Spas Georgiev Gurnevski- here Smilyana Nikolova Niva-Krsteva- missing Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - here Slavi Dichev Netzov- here Simeon Hristov Simeonov- absent Simeon Georgiev Naydenov- absent Sergey Manushov Kichikov- absent Sevim Ismail Ali is absent Svetlana Angelova Naydenova- here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova- missing Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Rumen Petrov Genov- here Rumen Nikolov Georgiev- absent Rumen Vassilev Gechev- absent Rosen Malinov Malinov - absent Rosen Zhivkov Ivanov- here Ramadan Bajram Atali is absent Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva- here Radostin Radoslavov Tanev- here Radoslava Plamen Chekanska- here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev- absent Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova- here Polina Alexandrova Shishkova- absent Plamen Trifonov Hristov- here Plamen Tachev Petrov - absent Plamen Ivanov Manushev- here Plamen Dulchev Nunev (through the Internet) video conference platform) - here Peter Hristov Petrov- here Petar Georgiev Kanev- absent Pavel Dimitrov Shopov- absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov- here Nona Krasteva Yotova- missing Nikolina Panayotova Angelkova- here Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov- here Nikolay Krastev Boshkov- absent Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov- absent Nikolay Dimitrov Penev- absent Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov- here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov- absent Nikolay Asenov Tishev - absent Nikola Iliev Dinkov- absent Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer is absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova- here Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova - absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye- absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov (through the Internet) video conference platform)-here Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov- absent Mitko Kostadinov Polychronov- here Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov- absent Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova- here Milen Vassilev Mihov- here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova- here Martin Stefanov Obreshkov- absent Maria Shtereva Belova- here Maria Yordanova Tsvetkova- here Maria Yordanova Ilieva- here Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova- here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Manoil Minchev Manev- here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev - absent Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- here Lilyana Drumeva Radeva - here Lalo Georgiev Kirilov - here Krastina Nikolova Takova- missing Krum Kostadinov Zarkov- absent Cristina Maximova Sidorova- absent Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Krasimir Hristov Jankov- here Krasimir Mitkov Subev- here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev- here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov- here Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov- here Krasen Georgiev Krastev- here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Konstantin Veselinov Popov (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - absent Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin here Kalin Nikolov Popovski- here Kalin Lubenov Velev- here Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev- here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- absent Yordan Iliev Yordanov- here Yordan Apostolov (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Ihsan Halil Hakke is absent Honest Vasilev Veselinov- here Irena Todorova Anastasova- absent Irena Metodieva Dimova- here Imren Ismetova Mehmedova- absent Ilian Angelov Timchev- absent Iglika Ivanova-Subeva- here Ivo Angelov Hristov- absent Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov- absent Ivan Stefanov Valkov- here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski- here Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev- absent Ivan Dimov Ivanov- absent Ivan Valentinov Ivanov- absent Brought to you by Vassilev Iankov- here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev- absent Errol Osman Mehmet-- absent. Erjan Sebytin Ebatin is absent. Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova- here Emil Seraphimov Tonchev- here Emil Marinov Hristov - here Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov- absent Elena Stefanova Pesheva - absent Elena Vladimirova Angelina- here Evdokia Slavchova Asenova- absent Evgenia Danielova Angelova- here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva- here Evgeni Genchev Budinov- here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- absent Dora Stoyanova Hristova- here Dora Ilieva Yankova- absent Donka Dimova Simeonova- absent Dobrin Nenov Danev- absent Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov- absent Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov- here Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov- here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev- absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- here Dimitar Ivanov Avramov- absent Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - absent Dimitar Borisov Glauchev- here Dimitar Boychev Petrov- here Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov- here Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov is absent Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov is absent. Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva- here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- here Desislava Angelova Todorova- here Desislaw Slavov Chukolov- absent Desislaw Petrov Taskov- absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski- absent Dean Stoyanov Stanchev- here Danka Evstatieva Zidarova-Lurtova- here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova(through the Internet) video conference platform) - here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova- here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva- here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- here Daniel Petkov Yordanov- absent Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova- here Georgi Yanchev Gokov- absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski- absent Georgi Tenev Stankov- here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski- absent Georgi Nikolov Vergiev- absent Georgi Kolev Kolev (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov- absent Georgi Zaprev Dinev- here Georgi Evdokiev Markov- absent Georgi Dimitrov Andreev- here Georgi Georgiev Stoilov- absent Georgi Georgiev Mihailov- absent Galya Stoyanova Zhelyazkova - here Galya Eneva Zaharieva- here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov- here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev- here Vladimir Slavchev Valev- here Violeta Ruseva Jeleva - absent Veska Marinova Nencheva- absent Veselin Naydenov Mareshki- here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva- absent Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova- here Velislava Ivanova Krasteva- absent Eyebrows Letif Rashidov (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Vasil Tsvetkov- here Vasil Milanov Antonov- absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov- here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov- absent Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova- absent Valentin Mirchov Milushev- here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov(through the Internet) video conference platform) - here Valentin Ivanov Radev- here Valentin Georgiev Lambev- absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov- here Bürhan Ilyazov Abase - absent Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva- here Borislav Ivanov Borisov- here Boris Yankov Yachev- here Boris Petkov Kirchev- here Boris Vangelov Borisov- here Bogdan Emilov Botsev- absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov is absent. Atanas Petrov Kostadinov- absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov- here Asya Atanasova Peeva- here Anton Konstantinov Kutev- absent Anna Nikolaeva Slavova- absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova- missing Andrian Ivanov Raykov-- here. Angel Iliev Isaev- here Anastas Marinov Popdimitrov- absent Altimir Emilov Adamov- here Alexander Tihomirov Simov- absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov- here Alexander Petrov Alexandrov- here Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov- here Aleksandar Mairov Siddi-here Alexander Koychev Ivanov- here Alexander Ivanov Matsurev- here Alexander Dimitrov Pawnov- absent Albena Vladimirova Naydenova- absent Adlen Shukri Shevked is absent. The quarm is 130. We are continuing, fellow Members, with the vote I announced before we did the roll call check. First, colleagues who vote online. Valentin Kasabov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u37	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u38	Vejdi Rashidov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u39	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u40	Georgi Kolev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u41	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u42	Daniela Dimitrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u43	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u44	Ivelina Vassileva?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u45	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u46	Yordan Apostolov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u47	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u48	Konstantin Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u49	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u50	Mladen Shishkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u51	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u52	Plamen Nunev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u53	Yeah. Colleagues, thank you. They voted 9 online. Please suspend the vote in the Chamber and declare the result. Vote 107 in the Chamber and 9 online, total 116: for 102 in the Chamber and 9 online, become 111, against 5, abstaining no The motion is accepted. Honourable Members, I propose that it be accepted: Project! DECISION The National Assembly on the basis of art. 48, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED To hold an extraordinary plenary session on 24 November 2020, Tuesday, at 12:00 on the following agenda: 1. Second vote on the Draft Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2021. Importer on 29 October 2020 the Council of Ministers adopted on the first vote on 6 November 2020. 2. Second vote on the State Social Security Budget Bill for 2021. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020, adopted on the first vote on 6 November 2020. 3. Second vote on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021. Importer on 29 October 2020 of the Council of Ministers adopted on the first vote on 6 November 2020 Please, voting mode. Colleagues who vote remotely, Valentin Kasabov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u54	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u55	Vejdi Rashidov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u56	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u57	Georgi Kolev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u58	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u59	Daniela Dimitrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u60	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u61	Ivelina Vassileva?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u62	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u63	Yordan Apostolov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u64	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u65	Konstantin Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u66	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u67	Mladen Shishkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u68	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u69	Plamen Nunev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u70	Yeah. Thanks, guys. They voted 9 remote. They voted in this House 134 plus 9 remotely, which is: 143 voted in total. For the House 105, remote 9 voted for the House 114, against the House 7, abstentioned the House 22. The motion is accepted. Let's move on to point one: A NEW DISCLOSURE OF THE CODEX OF THE TRADE CORRECTION CODECTION, ADOPTIONED BY THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION OF 28 OCTOBER 2020, RETURNED FOR NEW DISCLOSURE BY SAYN No 229 OF 5 NOVEMBER 2020 TO THE PRESENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF THREAT. 101 OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Mr. Polychronov, are you going to introduce us to the report? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u71	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'd like to introduce: ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on Decree No 229 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, received on 6 November 2020, for a new discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping, adopted by the National Assembly on 28 October 2020, and the reasons for the Decree At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 18 November 2020, Decree No 229 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria was discussed, received on 6 November 2020, to return for a new discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping adopted by the National Assembly on 28 October 2020, and the reasons for the decree. [[Noise and lines.]] The meeting was attended by Mrs. Krasimira Stoyanova, Director of Legal Affairs at the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, and Mrs. Ivanka Ivanova, Director of Legal Affairs of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria. Mrs. Ivanova briefed the members of the Commission on the President's decree and the reasons for it. On the basis of art. 101, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the President returns to the National Assembly the Law amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping adopted by the National Assembly on 28 October 2020, contesting paragraphs 18 and 19 of the Law. [[Noise and lines.]] The reasons for the decree state that the Law amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping, aimed primarily at the safety of shipping and surveillance of the maritime equipment market, adopted additions to the Criminal Code and the Road Transport Act. With § 18 of the Final Provisions of the Law on Amendment and
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u72	Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall. It's too loud.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u73	..of the Code of Commercial Shipping is created art. 234d of the Criminal Code, which declared the conduct of public carriage of passengers without authorisation, registration or licence required by a regulation or act of the European Union a criminal offence. A prison sentence of two to five years, such as the motor vehicle used to carry out the act, is being taken for the benefit of the State, regardless of its ownership. More severely punishable is the act committed by two or more persons who have spoken in advance about its implementation, either by the use of a false or falsified document or by a document of false content. In these cases, the penalty is a prison sentence of five to ten years and a fine of five to fifteen thousand BGN, and the court may also order confiscation to one second of the property of the guilty. In the reasons for the decree, the President does not contest the public danger of unauthorised carriage of passengers, which may damage not only the safety of persons but also the public interest in the provision of transport services. It is not a coincidence that the act still constitutes an administrative infringement under the Road Transport Act, but it is currently legitimate to ask how will the cases in which it is prosecuted by administrative order or by the order of the Code of Criminal Procedure be assessed. Nor are the criteria by which unregulated public passenger transport will be distinguished from so-called shared travel. The broad definitions of the notions of public transport and the transport of passengers contained in Paragraph 1 respectively are the reason for these questions. 1 and 2 of the Additional Provisions of the Road Transport Act. The reasons also state that the changes adopted in the Road Transport Act, which in § 19 of the Law amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping, are limited only to the addition that the administrative penalty applies if the act committed is not a crime, do not provide the necessary guarantees. They shall not set an exact limit on when a person may share his travel costs to a designated place, free of his or her rights on the motor vehicle concerned, from cases where the act constitutes an administrative offence or offence. If the same actions can be treated as an administrative offence and as a crime, too much discretion shall be left to the law enforcement authorities and the citizens have no clarity as to the qualification of the act they have committed. Both consequences are incompatible with the requirements of the rule of law. In the reasons for the decree, the President also sets out an opinion that, as provided for in Paragraph 18 of the Law amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping, withdrawal for the benefit of the State of the motor vehicle which served to carry out the act, irrespective of its ownership, may constitute an unjustified violation of the right to property guaranteed by and by art. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, and with art. 1 of Protocol No 1 to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. According to the settled practice of the European Court of Human Rights, confiscation measures should comply with the requirements of the Convention under the cumulative existence of three conditions: the measure has been taken in the context of a procedure established in law, pursues a legitimate objective and is proportionate to the objective. The adopted § 18 of the Law amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping creates a vague norm that does not allow judgement under these conditions. The reasons for the decree also indicate that where the ownership of the motor vehicle belongs to a third party, the imperative norm in art. 234d of the Criminal Code, which provides for a revocation regardless of this circumstance, does not guarantee a fair balance between the public interest and the protection of the rights of the owner who has not committed the crime or has participated in its execution. According to the European Court of Human Rights, when property which has been unlawfully used is confiscated, this balance depends on many factors, including the behaviour of the owner. In such cases, national authorities are called upon to take into account the degree of guilt or care of the property owner or at least the relationship between his conduct and the crime. It is also stated that the adopted addition to the Criminal Code has established the withdrawal of property along with the imprisonment, explicitly stating that this effect is to be achieved regardless of whose ownership the motor vehicle is. It is noticeable that in the qualified composition of art. 234d, para. 2 of the Criminal Code does not provide for the withdrawal of ownership of the motor vehicle, confiscation is allowed to one second of the property of the guilty, but this is only a legal option imposed at the discretion of the court. This disproportionateness has no explanation, since the reasons for the proposal for addition to the Criminal Code do not contain any arguments as to the amount of penalties envisaged. The President also points out that on 6 February 2020 a Draft Law on the Supplement to the Penal Code proposed to incriminate unauthorised carriage of passengers was submitted to the National Assembly. In the reasons of Law No 054-01-8, submitted on 6 February 2020, it is pointed out that only through the methods of criminal law can be found the main effect sought, namely the rapid, lasting and secure suspension of the illegal carriage of passengers, which is carried out to the detriment of the State itself, and not less to the public, as well. On the bill were received opinions from the Ministry of Justice, the Supreme Court of Cassation, the Confederation of Bus Carriers, the Supreme Council of Law and the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria. With regard to the persecution of the grey economy in the motives of the decree, the President points out that he expresses support, but should take place with the mechanisms of the rule of law, while respecting the principles of necessity, justification, predictability, openness, coherence, proportionality and stability. Leaded by the so-called motives, the President exercises his right on the basis of Rule 101, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria to challenge the amendments made to the Criminal Code and to the Road Transport Act, which were tabled between the two votes of the Law amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping, without being related to its main positions and scope. In the course of the debates Ms. Stoyanova expressed the opinion of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications by stating support for the Law. During the discussion spoke the MPs Georgi Svilenski, Stanislav Ivanov, Mitko Polychronov and Dimitar Danchev. Support for the Law said Mr. Stanislav Ivanov, Mr. Mitko Polyhronov, as well as Mrs. Magdalena Miltenova, Chairman of the Confederation of Bus Carriers. Mr. Svilenski expressed his opinion that he did not support the Law and gave examples of the checks carried out by the competent authorities and the violations found by them. Following the discussion and the opinions held, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 11 votes.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u74	Thank you, dear Mr. Polychronov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! For the third time, we consider the Law on Commercial Shipping in its part, the unauthorized carriage of passengers, returned fully justified with absolutely valid arguments from the President of the Republic of Bulgaria for his insolvency as legal norms. What's this about, guys? Firstly, my request is really in the debate today, if it is to involve lawyers, to involve people familiar with the Penal Code, how and what norms should be adopted in it, because the competence of the Commission, which examines the Law, at the very least, which may have as competence under the Penal Code, is precisely the Law. I don't underestimate any of the colleagues who took part. We are dealing with this from a transport point of view. From a transport point of view, there is a problem with illegal and unregulated transports. This issue has had to be resolved over the years, it has to be solved by us and by those who will follow us in this Chamber and by those who will rule the state after us. But what happens ten years in the country? The problem with unregulated transportation hasn't been since yesterday, the problem has been for many years. What has the state been doing these years? Repeated attempts to amend various laws that find their place in the National Assembly are adopted by some norms, some laws, but the one who has to implement them is not implementing them. We ask ourselves the question: do we now need to change the Penal Code, to make a crime and punishment for five to ten years, from two to five years, to confiscate a motor vehicle when there is no one to identify these violations? That is, if the preventive action would be: let us show that this violation must be punished by 10 years in prison, I would suggest that we punish it with 50 years in prison to make it even more preventative. But we all know that's not gonna happen. What has the state done in the last three years on the topic of unauthorized transport? When, in February, this topic enters the Legal Commission, then changes to the Penal Code where it belongs, of course, then the Legal Commission, as far as I have information, rejects the bill with all the opinions of lawyers, prosecutors, legal community, because there is no way this could happen purely legally. Then I asked questions to the Interior Minister and to the Minister of Transport, because they are the responsible ministers who need to monitor the illegal transport. They can get on the road and carry out this check. There's no one else out there. You and I, colleagues, we can't. The Minister of Interior replied to me that under the Road Transport Act, the Ministry of Interior had no competence and could not carry out checks. For this reason, the Ministry of Interior has no information, no statistics, and cannot say whether there is such a problem, whether there are such violations. However, the Minister of Transport can answer this question because the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications carries out these checks and it is the competent authority. Now, notice what the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications has said over the last three years, what a violation they have found from a public danger that threatens the lives and health of all Bulgarian citizens, for which we must punish potential offenders by ten years if they are caught. 1313 inspections have been carried out in 300 municipalities for the whole of 2017. These 1313 inspections consist of 82 acts, 34 of them entered into force. For the whole year, for the whole country.. 300 municipalities, 34 Penal Orders entered into force. In 2018, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Let's focus on the number 98. For all Bulgaria, 98 intruders were found on the road. They went out, checked it out, and they caught these people carrying out an illegal transport. When there is already a new management of the Executive Agency, 13 thousand inspections were carried out in 2019, or 12,974, to be exact. 104 acts have been made. Out of 12 thousand checks, 104 acts have been drawn. I think that's under one percent. Of these 104 acts, notice, only 29 have entered into force and for these 29 violations have entered into force you change the Penal Code? For these 34 in 2017 and for these 34 in 2018 or for the entire period.67 people, you change the Penal Code where you say: ten years in prison. You're wrong about the Penal Code, just because you've made commitments to someone. However, the question is why, out of 13,000 checks, there are only 100 detected violations and why of these 100 detected violations only 30 have endured in court. In this room we have repeatedly talked about corruption in the Automobile Administration. For the last five, six, seven years, we have three D.I.A. directors arrested with cash in the drawers, with money in the closet like the Prime Minister's, by the way, photos. [[GERB lines.]] That's what they were given. We have over 40 D.I.I. inspectors arrested, then released on various occasions, others still in custody. Well, there's no way that no matter how much you change the Penal Code for those who carry out an unregulated transport, you can change the situation when those who have to check are corrupt. Yesterday in the Transport Commission, I asked a question: would any of you submit a proposal that a director whose territory is being exposed to such unregulated shipments will be imprisoned for 5 to 15 years? There's no such commitment. Why don't we punish the directors who aren't doing their job? Or will they be punished administratively and capture 29 offenders? In fact, who does an analysis on a crime of public danger or not? Who says how many violations have been committed or how many not? Only the controls carried out by the authorities are the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, and we can step on this thing. That is why once again my appeal is to the lawyers in this House: reject this bill and together, all of us in the Transport Commission do not have a problem, we talk about this subject repeatedly, if we need a joint meeting with the Legal Committee, to find the right approach, to make sure that really caught offenders are punished. Let us not punish people who carry out the so-called shared journey because under the blows of this law, no matter how much you deny it, the shared journey falls because it is not regulated in the Law. And as I used to give an example: three, four people go to work together, they fall under the text you have done.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u76	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u77	Now that I'm done, do me a line to explain why it's not true and I'll explain why it's true! Give me a line, I'll answer you, Mr. Ivanov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u78	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u79	Let Mr. Ivanov give me a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u80	Don't force the MPs, Mr. Svilensky, to give you lines. If they want to, they'll make you. Whatever you had to say, you should have said it. Here you are, Mr. Vesselinoff, for your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u81	Madam President, honourable Members! We're looking at another presidential veto. I've already lost the right number. Often, in many cases, the presidential veto has been used as a political instrument, as some way of positioning the president as opposition to the current government, often it has been flirting with certain groups of people that the President wanted to please. In all these cases, I've been out and I've been motivated by why we're going to reject this veto. In this case, however, a large number of colleagues from the "United Patriarchs" are not going to support the Law and we will support the veto for several reasons. Firstly, the most disturbing way to change the Criminal Code through the Transport Commission. This is basically our consideration. By the way, a large part of us did not vote on the Law in this part, which was put into discussion because, without doubting the competence of the Transport Commission, the Penal Code is still a special matter which should not be touched lightly, without underestimating the size and importance of illegal passenger transport, I believe that these texts should at least be refined. That is to say, we will refrain from supporting the Law in this vote in the hope that, by entering into practice at a new second reading, the texts will be improved, a guarantee will be given that the shared journey will not be pursued by the Law, and the necessary precision of the texts as penal norms will, in my opinion, be refined and the disproportionate size of the public danger of punishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u82	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. - What's the line? I can't see. Here's your speech, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u83	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! When we talk about the legislative process, we must bear in mind that the main points in this process are two. First, the identification of the public problem in this case is a clear "unregulated public transports'. The second important issue is the identification of stakeholders. Obviously, the importers of this proposal, which is the subject of the presidential veto today, have missed the identification of the interested parties, and not by accident, because this proposal, I recall, appeared in the Code of Commercial Shipping between first and second reading, and several months, as Mr. Svilenski said, after it was rejected when examining the Car Transport Act this spring. It has been rejected by the Legal Commission because that is where colleagues have identified that, apart from those interests that importers are now trying to protect, there are other interested parties who risk falling under the blows of this legal change and being, so to speak, imprisoned for several years. In fact, when it comes to justice, it must be borne in mind that the legislator has provided for a standard of prevention in every law, but has also provided for the authorities that must control and punish under this law. We can boldly say that in the Law on Road Transport, the legislator... prayerful people before us in this House, as they say, have provided for prevention and have provided for an administrative penalty for carrying out an illegal public carriage of passengers. However, importers now argue that this administrative penalty is not sufficient and it is necessary to apply a stricter penalty, including, as has become known, both prison and the withdrawal of the vehicle by which unauthorised public transport is carried out. Why? Probably not because the Law did not foresee prevention, but because obviously the executive authority in the face of the administrative authorities, who are called to exercise control and impose penalties, are not doing their job. Mr. Svilenski gave you a correct example for 12 thousand checks carried out in 2018, and there are no 100 sanctions imposed. It is obvious that it is the executive that cannot deal with this problem. But the problem, as I said, is bigger. Here the system approach is ignored when seeking a solution to this public problem and the short path of chicanation of the legislative process is chosen. However, once again, which I say risks putting citizens who use their cars and vehicles shared daily to move to their jobs or to carry out another activity that is important to them, to fall under the blows of this law and to be, how can I say, racketeered by road control authorities, to risk being put in prison or being taken away from their vehicle. This is precisely because in this non-systemic approach where no interested parties have been identified and where the normal legislative process has not been passed, it is missed to make that demarcation between the shared journey and those who carry out the exercises, as they say, the unregulated transport. If there was this demarcation, maybe we'd be more relaxed. Now that she's gone, we risk, again I say, with similar legal texts to put the ordinary citizen in prison, those who are forced every day to optimize their expenses, to make shared travels. Therefore, I suggest that we support the presidential veto and reject this legal text, which must go definitely another way, and because of the solution to this public problem that is being sought with it, other systemic measures must be taken obviously. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u84	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. Will there be lines? I can't see. [[The National Representative Krasimir Yankov wants the floor.]] A statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u85	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u86	Wait for Mrs. Sabeva to make a statement before you, and I will give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u87	Madam President, honourable Members! Today we are discussing the next veto of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, which returns for a new discussion in the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria § 18 and § 19 of the Law amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping, adopted by the 44th National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria on 28 October 2020. The motives with which the President's institution exercises this right are scarce, general, without any specifics regarding the substance of the changes.. the public relations that govern, and without a clear analysis of the actual composition.. hypothesis, disposition and penalty of the legal norm that is proposed. The reasons are common, blanquet, namely the creation of predictable legislation, which regulates legally regulated public relations in a fair manner and so on. It is not clear why it is necessary to settle in a fair manner already regulated and regulated public relations. In the first aspect of the President's motives, it is precisely what the proposed changes are expressed in, while not contesting the public danger of unauthorised carriages of passengers, while in principle agreeing with the need to regulate these public relations. The main problem turned out to be that it was not specified what the criteria would be for unauthorised public passenger transport to be distinguished from shared travel. In this regard, in order to dispel this ambiguity, I will clarify that, under the Road Transport Act, § 1 of the Additional Provisions, i.e. 1: A public transport is a transport carried out for a foreign account or for payment or an economic benefit carried out with a motor vehicle. And according to this. 2: The carriage of passengers is an activity of a person who carries out passenger transport services by means of a motor vehicle for a foreign account or for payment or an economic benefit. In our proposals for changes to the factual situation, which we are referring to, is the presence of organised groups that carry out this type of transport which offer this kind of service without being licensed. I believe that this act is clearly distinguished from the pure form of the travel that is being shared where people really travel on friendly terms, without any economic benefit to anyone. In their speeches on the proposed changes, when they were adopted at second reading, many colleagues shared different interpretations of our proposal. The dialogue is specified on the two levs that passengers would give for fuel to their friend who took them. It is quite clear that this does not constitute an act declared punishable, according to the provision of the legal norm that we have proposed with the amendments. It explicitly records a public transport. And in the case of the shared journey, neither do we have public transport, nor do we have payment for the transport or economic benefit, the provision is quite clear. I would ask that we concentrate and interpret it according to its real design and direction. Otherwise, in the event of a coup d'état interpretation, Bulgarian citizens may be misled. Such interpretations can also serve as a starting point for absurd interpretations, expressed in a way to reach many Bulgarian citizens. A similar interpretation I heard in the public domain is that if a driver gets in his car to drive a person, according to the proposed changes, he will be punished with imprisonment for two to five years. And if he raises more than two persons - from five to 10 years, which does not sound serious and is unacceptable by nature, as it is unacceptable to cause panic and fear in citizens with a similar interpretation of the provision of the applicable legal rule, which by nature is extremely clear, namely: the person who carries out public transport of passengers without authorisation, registration or person who is required by a regulation or act of the European Union shall be punished by imprisonment for up to five years, respectively, when the action has been carried out by two or more persons who have previously agreed to carry it out, or through the use of a non-true or falsified document. It is in combination with a document crime. The sentence is imprisonment from five to 10 years. The second aspect of the reasoning suggests that the norm was not sufficiently clear and fair... The withdrawal of the motor vehicle provided for violates the right of ownership of the citizens, which I cannot accept and qualify as non-serious. The third point of the President's motives refers to another Draft Law submitted on 6 February 2020 and discusses the opinions deposited with him. I do not intend to engage and comment on this point, and I believe that the statement of reasons in this part does not correspond to the subject which we propose, governing and regulating the implementation of public passenger transport, which requires authorisation, registration or licence to be issued in the appropriate order. It is clear from the reasons at the end of the third point that they are not synchronized and with the procedure laid down in the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, namely that, under the said Law supplementing the Penal Code, in addition to the opinions received, as I stated, the opinions are based on a previous bill, there is an opinion on our proposal from the Ministry of Justice, which generally supports the Bill. No other movement has been reported. The committee responsible has not reported. The Committee on Legal Affairs is not a leader in the amendments and proposed Draft. The Leading Commission is the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, which has deposited its report in due order. With regard to penalties, since statements have appeared to be of a large extent, I would like to state that there are similar penalties in the Penal Code for illegal logging and other similar activities. We have proposed a corresponding amendment to the Road Transport Act, which makes the distinction between administrative criminal liability and those provided for in our proposals for amendments to the Criminal Code. The administrative punishment is imposed when the company has a license, but it has not included the process vehicle in it. And when there are no documents issued, then criminal liability is already tolerated. I believe that the distinction is extremely clear. All this is required by the fact that, at present, the existing mechanisms by which the State reacts to these unregulated transports are insufficient, as well as insufficiently effective. Undoubtedly, once it is established that the administrative punishment does not achieve the necessary effect to deter the legal entities and to prevent them from acting contraryly, which could affect the lives and health of the Bulgarian citizens, it is to proceed to more serious measures by establishing the relevant compositions in the Criminal Code in order to safeguard the recognised rights and legitimate interests of the legal entities. It is certainly, and the President points it out in his reasoning that such actions harm important public relations affecting the security of persons using such services, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, escalate and affect the interests of the state as well. I believe that the proposed changes will solve a problem that has been going on for years. That is why I call on you to support the Law. Thank you for your attention. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u88	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sabeva. - What's the line? Come in, Mr. Baychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u89	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Sabeva, I begin with this, your remark on the reasons that they are scarce and common, and I immediately reply to you that, as the bill is, such are the reasons. Import worthy bills to receive detailed and detailed motives.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u90	Please do not evaluate the work of the Members of the National Assembly!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u91	Of course. From there on, I would like to express a disagreement with one of the aspects which is also the subject of a dispute, by the way, namely the high penalties imposed which do not correspond to the public danger. Shortly ago, my colleague Svilenski explicitly pointed out that they were captured and punished about 34 people a year... Mrs. Sabeva, listen, because I'm addressing you! There are 2,500 people caught operating under drug use, about 1800 years old, using alcohol. [[GERB lines.]] Shut up!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u92	Mr. Baychev, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u93	... And they get a lower penalty. This is an act of greater public danger, they are subject to lower punishment and the vehicle is not confiscated. Can you explain to me why? [[Replications from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u94	Mr. Ivanov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u95	Mr. Ivanov... [[(Replications by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov: I apologize!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u96	Mr. Baychev, continue. Don't engage in conversation with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u97	Thank you, I accept your apology. So I would like to be explained to me why a crime with a higher public danger, why 4300, I would say, live torpedoes drive cars and move, and get lower penalties? Also, if a person is captured who is intoxicated and this person carries out an unregulated transport, what punishment will he be punished for?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u98	The weather, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u99	How will he be punished? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u100	Thank you. Second line, come in, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u101	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Sabeva, I am sure that a large part of the legal community, listening to these motives of yours, must have come to break up their law degree. This is because the Penal Code and the introduction of a new composition of crimes is not done categorically in this way without public discussion, without taking into account the negative opinions of the entire community of law apologize for the expression, but it is correct................................................................................ That's not how it's done! You are introducing a disproportionate severe punishment in view of its public danger. Prevention is indeed one of the objectives in criminal law, but it is not done in this way, it will not achieve its goal. And in connection with what Mr. Svilensky said, what will you accomplish by introducing 10 years in prison? Well, you're just going to increase the corruption scheme, and more money will be given to the authorities that establish this violation, and that's what you're going to do. The Penal Code provides for imprisonment from three months to 20 years. Deprivation for 10 years is a pretty serious punishment. This is in the general part of the Penal Code............................................................................................... 39, because maybe you don't know. It's a crime against the Republic from 10 to 20 years, for a diversion from 5 to 15 years, for murder from 10 to 20 years. You align this violation, which you raise in crime, to diversion and crime against the Republic, and murder. That's absurd, where it's hard to find even legal or normal logic. What you're doing is absolutely insane. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u102	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Mr. Svilenski, third line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u103	Thank you, Madam President. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] Mr. Ivanov, if you don't agree, you make a line, you don't get yelled at by a place. That's why I'm making a line. Thank you, Mrs. Sabeva. You were, I think, an importer of this proposal in the Code of Commercial Shipping, and now it is perfectly reasonable for you to go out and defend it as a lawyer. I just don't know why you're running and you're saying that this example I gave in the previous discussion is not relevant to the problem that you're putting on when three or four people get on the car together, travel to work or drive the kids to school, then give money to the driver. What exactly doesn't fall under your beatings of the Law? Because you're saying that someone who carries out an unregulated public transport. The regulation is clear about it we have no dispute. There you have the company, the carrier, the licenses, there it is clear how the transport is carried out. We're talking about the one you want to call an illegal passenger transport. Do you know what public passenger transport is? Do you know what public passenger transport is? Now, in the back of my head, answer me. But I'm going to read it to you: A foreign-accounted transport. When I drive you in my car, I do it on my own account or in exchange for payment, or for economic gain or, not with and, but one of the three is carried out by a motor vehicle. Well, when I get you on my car, what am I driving you with? Am I carrying you on your back?! I'm driving you in my car. You give me two levs and I have economic benefits. Don't you understand that?! What's worse, Madam President, is that if this thing is accepted, you fall under the law. Because the vans of the National Assembly are not regulated transport. You don't have a transport license. Municipalities in Bulgaria "Many town halls, many municipalities have small vans that carry out such transport because they are under 8-seat and because they cannot be regulated. So, Madam President, you too will be struck by this law. Be careful when you vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u104	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Mrs. Sabeva, come on in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u105	Madam President, honourable Members! Once again, my theory has been confirmed that you can't explain something to someone who doesn't want to understand it. [[Radio and applause by GERB.]] Several times I tried to talk to Mr. Svilenski normally, to explain what these two levs are about, exactly these two levs. When he put the passenger in his car and he gave him these two levs, they share the fuel. Where's the economic benefit for the driver? There is no such economic advantage. [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u106	Please don't shout, Mr. Svilensky! You asked the question, listen to the asshole, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u107	Dear Mr. Popov, another maxim is confirmed in your line that when a person does not have enough motives to justify his position, he starts attacking and insulting others. [[Reply from MP Philip Popov.]] I won't comment. I just want to ask you... since even the President in his motives notes that there should be regulation of these public relations, why didn't you make a proposal to regulate these public relations and protect citizens' rights and legitimate interests?! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u108	Please don't call from the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u109	Dear Mr. Baychev, in the same section there are similar compositions for which similar amounts of imprisonment are envisaged. And as for this: the lower penalty for drunk and drugged drivers is set by the court for each particular case. We, as legislators, set only the legal framework within which the court will determine the relevant penalty, taking into account the individual characteristics of the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u110	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sabeva. Mr. Yankov, come in. And then Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u111	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In connection with the new discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping, a major debate is being formed for the proposal in the Final Provisions of the Amendment of the Criminal Code. First, why is the Penal Code amended in this way? More than once, there have been objections with such an approach. Are the importers in a hurry? I do not pay particular attention to whether the Council of Ministers proposes it or a member of the ruling majority between first and second readings. The question is about the way it is done, without the possibility of opinion of the public, the so-called public discussion, without having an impact study, and it can be extremely key. Dear MPs of the ruling majority, you want to change the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, only that the Penal Code has been changed since 2 April 1968 and has been changed many times. Isn't it time to look at all the texts and have a new Penal Code that reflects today's reality, new crimes, the way the judiciary should react to the application, the desire of society to be fairer, to have justice? A new composition of a crime is proposed, and I am paying attention, punishment, which is from 2 to 5 years old, and it can reach up to 10 years if it is proved that two or more persons have spoken according to the proposal for art. 234, which declares it a crime to carry out public carriage of passengers without authorisation, registration or licence, which is required by a regulation or act of the European Union. Dear importers "those who have supported the Law, how will you prove that increased sanctions for infringement reduce the number of infringements? You can't! How can you prove that an increased penalty for a crime reduces the number of crimes committed? I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the debate that is being held today is not paying attention to an important and essential part of the effect of such a proposal. It is related to corruption and is related to the fact that with nearly 13 thousand inquiries there are very few detected violations... a little more than 100 acts, and 30% of them entered into force. And now there are actually two circumstances that are missing. One is in a hurry with this proposal for amendment to the Penal Code, and it is less than 4 months before elections, provided that the Penal Code has been changed for decades, changed and how another amendment will affect it!? Perhaps they will not notice this change those concerning the proposal in question! Corruption is now a standard procedure for gaining on the entire scale of the public administration. This is possible only with the participation of the highest levels and, of course, with the appropriate legislation The characteristics of today's government, exposed to repeated motives related to corruption, are trade with influence. Are there circumstances that lead to logic and the current proposal for such an opportunity when you threaten potential offenders, potential offenders of a criminal offence of up to 10 years, political, power and management umbrellas, the administration, those who will apply the Law, can they also benefit from the respective commitments to benefit, support for elections? Of course they can! Party and family appointments in the administration in question also common line in the management of Boyko Borisov, regardless of which format of the cabinet. Aren't they reunited with benefit and pressure to get support in elections? Parliamentary elections are coming and you are very concerned about what will result from these elections. But for this, it takes appropriate laws, the laws that are instrumental in the hands of the administration, this administration that you rely on to ensure that they remain in power. This is one of the elements of the so-called specific method of pressure. You tried, albeit harmlessly in the Final Provisions, by other laws, to allow a single unit in this huge administration, which, however, has a great concern with a huge industry, to be used in all aspects of corruption, and all aspects leading to a corporate vote, a vote under pressure. This debate must be focused precisely on this... should not be allowed to change legislation, which can become a tool for the ugly phenomenon of corruption in the hands of the administration, especially at the end of the term of office! We will not support the new discussion of the Law with these exact arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u112	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Zarkov, come in for a statement. [[Reply of MP Krum Zarkov away from the microphones.]] Extend group time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u113	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Just now, the only person who dared GERB to speak on the Law and on the veto of the President said, I quote: "There is nothing to explain to a person who does not want to understand it! Now imagine how you explain something to a whole group of people who don't want to understand the biggest group in parliament who don't want to understand the three and a half years of the basic principles of law enforcement and don't understand the principles of our criminal law at all. The law that returns the President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, is incompetent, will be ineffective, and it is also unfair to those who are supposedly asked to help, and I will try quite calmly to explain why. It is incompetent for the simple reason that, as the President stresses, it should be justified, predictable and precise. It cannot be justified because there is no criminal code to it and, by the way, the Criminal Code is changing here, I mean in Bulgaria, and in this law, an elementary analysis of the criminology of empirical data, which can be the only normal basis for changing the Criminal Code. Changes, ladies and gentlemen, who put people in prison, deprive them of their freedom!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u114	It's the court's call!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u115	Predictability! There is nothing to say about a law that everyone has explained that it makes no difference to the same act, that it can be punished in two lines or through the Penal Code. As for precision, my colleagues have been perfectly clear and have been explained, including in the opinions of the competent institutions, the prosecution, the prosecution and all law enforcement officers, that it is not clear what is going to be the act that will be criminalized, that the key concepts of public transport are not clearly explained, the transport of passengers and so on. In addition, the fundamental principles of criminal law, such as the principle of proportionality and of co-discipline, which require similar crimes, are violated with similar penalties. Without underestimating the burden of illegal competition in the area of transport, does it seem to you that it is proportionate when these crimes you are committing will be more severely punished than crimes such as fornication under art. 149 of the NK? Rape, my dear sir, is being punished less easily than this unauthorized transport!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u116	What about human life?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u117	Trafficking in human beings, my dear sir, will be punished less easily than this transport! The detention of a hostage, my dear sir, will be punished less easily than this uncontrolled carriage! And I would like to tell you, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority that these principles of criminal law are not just designed to bully you! They are a civilisational achievement that not only protects citizens' rights, but is also the only guarantee of the effectiveness of the Law, including general prevention, that is, that you will prevent a crime from happening. This prevention cannot work if these principles are not respected and everyone knows it, said your government! Three justice ministers have changed since you were in power, and we've criticised them a lot. There is one thing that has been done by the Justice Ministry and it is that after strong pressure with severe delays, as well as no matter, created and adopted the Council of Ministers the concept of penal policy of Bulgaria. You took it, you took it, you put it somewhere, and you moved on the same way. It explains the things I'm telling you today. I don't know why you don't understand them, though. No, actually, I do! Because behind every change in the Penal Code lies a dishonesty, a powerless administration, understand the executive power, the powerlessness of your government! It's the same thing every time. There is a very serious crime happening, people are naturally responding to it and in order not to admit that the services under your leadership are under your authority............................... the Ministry of Interior or the State Car Inspection didn't do their job well, you say.................................................. And when my colleague Svilenski tells you that no checks are being carried out or are being carried out fictitiously, or information is leaking, or there is corruption, then you can also write You are currently gathering people who are suffering from illegal competition, and being honest with them, you tell them sorry, we have turned all the bodies that have to take care of fair competition in bats and that while the KPC is counting Lego cubes somewhere, they are doing whatever they want, and you are telling them calmly, we will bring it into the Penal Code. But you're not gonna help them! Neither the victims of crime will help, nor the people of the transport industry will help. The only thing you do is fool them. It's no coincidence we're in the free competition places we're in. I haven't heard of a country that through the Penal Code has provided free competition! I haven't heard of a country that does it while I change the Law on Commercial Shipping. Yesterday, the Transport Commission met under the Penal Code. I propose, if the veto is accepted, Madam President, it better not be the Committee on Youth and Sports to deal with it! These aren't anecdotes. Your behavior is shocking. The repetition of the same mistake is infuriating. Your incompetence is freezing. She's so big, she's already a threat to national security. So please accept the motives of the president's veto. If you really want to solve this problem, organize a quality discussion on it and then go back and not waste our time. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u118	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u119	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the ruling majority mostly! This proposal highlights three persistent trends in the ruling party's legislative process. The first sustainable trend is this satisfaction with which, as you say, another veto of the President. You seem to think of this as some kind of political victory when the opposition's arguments are overrun, yet another president's veto has been overcome, apparently the government has marked some great victory.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u120	Mr. Bojankov, this is...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u121	The practice shows that this is not the case and the problems come with terrible force again, unfortunately, on the head of all Bulgarian citizens. The second sustainable trend is related to the use of the Criminal Code for the Regulation of Civil Legal Relations. As my colleague Zarkov said, this will have no effect. Because, honourable Members, it really isn't fair to the transport industry. You can simply say that you are not capable of reform and that you are unable to solve this problem, but you should not transfer it to the prosecution again. Many times in this room you have done it, because it wants a little effort, a little time, and, naturally, the effect will be none, and I guarantee the transport industry that next year they will be in exactly the same position at that time. The third sustainable trend is your attitude towards shared services. How many texts of different laws, of transitional and final provisions have you passed against short-term rental platforms, against shared travel? It's a sustainable trend. You can honestly tell people and it will be much more dignified: we do not like shared services. End of story! How many times have we had this debate in this room? The whole civilized world is going in this direction and only the government in Bulgaria is going against these trends. That would be the most honest position. Once and for all, admit it, because this will also be an effect of this bill, another blow to shared services and perhaps the most modern current in the economy across Europe, which proves that your legislative process is nothing but populism and expression of powerlessness, and last but a retrograde understanding of the economy and policy in the country. Therefore, colleagues, this time you have the opportunity not to overcome another veto, but to come out as responsible politicians and governors and especially in this crisis not to do this to the Bulgarian citizens and to the shared services that are already at an extremely unseemly level in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u122	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Mr. Danchev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bojankov, since you look to me like a modern thinking person who supports the shared economy, I would like to ask you: when the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria in his service car...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u124	What's the subject?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u125	I have a question for Mr. Bojankov to explain: when he rides in the back seat of a minister, director of hospital, PR and security, on whose account does he perform this transport and will he accidentally fall under the hits of the Law? Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u126	Is there gonna be a second line? A hole, Mr. Bojankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u127	Dear Mr. Danchev, perhaps according to the new Law there is no benefit, but rather pure gratitude for not pushing them into the guard. [[Laughter]] This is more about habits from the past...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u128	Very original!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u129	...when people are riding, but they're riding in the trunk and now they're probably grateful that they're at least sitting down and not riding in another way. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u130	What an original doppelganger! Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Please invite the Members of the National Assembly to the Chamber. I re-vote the Law amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping adopted by the National Assembly on 28 October 2020. The colleagues who participate remotely in the meeting are: Mr. Kasabov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u131	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u132	Mr. Rashidov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u133	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u134	Mr. Kolev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u135	(OP, via Internet platform for video conference) : For.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u136	Mrs. Dimitrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u137	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u138	Mrs. Vassileva?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u139	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u140	Mr. Apostolov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u141	(OP, via Internet platform for video conference) : For.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u142	Mr. Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u143	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u144	Mr. Shishkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u145	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u146	Mr. Nunev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u147	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u148	They voted 163 MPs in the House and 9 remote. 172 total: 84 in the Chamber and 9 remote.. 93 against 61 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. The Law amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping has not been adopted. Please show in groups. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] In accordance with art. 86, para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly concerning the contested texts of the Law amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping should be implemented. 84 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly.. re-vote the contested and related texts, which is in accordance with the requirements of the Rules. We continue with the next item on the agenda: SECOND VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE COUNTERPARTY LAW Importer of the Council of Ministers, 27 October 2020. Adopted in first vote on 5 November 2020. Let us thank our colleagues who are online for their participation in today's meeting. Here you go, Mrs. Ilieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u149	Thank you, Madam President. On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I would like to make a procedure for admission in the hall for Mrs. Rositsa Velkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u150	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ilieva. Please, voting mode. They voted 116 MPs: 109, against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Mrs. Ilieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u151	"Report on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, No 002-01-57, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 October 2020, adopted at the first vote on 5 November 2020. The Act for amendment and supplement of the Law on Value Added Tax (prom., SG No. ...................................................................... The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. Under § 3 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 3 and shall propose the following wording: .................................................. Article 14 is amended as follows: "Standing distance sale of goods" Art. 14. (1) The intra-Community distance sale of goods within the territory of the European Union shall be the supply of goods for which the following conditions are simultaneously available: 1. the goods are dispatched or transported by or on behalf of the supplier, including where the supplier intervenes indirectly in the dispatch or transport of the goods from the territory of a Member State other than that to which the goods are dispatched or transported to the consignee; 2. the recipient of the supply is a non-taxable person; as a non-taxable person is also considered a taxable person or a non-taxable legal person who does not have an obligation to charge VAT for intra-Community acquisition of the goods in the Member State where the transport ends; 3. the goods are produced in the territory of the European Union or are released for free circulation with the exception of: (a) new vehicles, or (b) goods to be installed and/or installed by or on behalf of the supplier; or (c) goods which are subject to a special order of taxation of the price margin for second-hand goods, works of art, collection articles and antiques. (2) The sale of excise goods shall be an intra-Community remote sale of goods under para. 1, t. 1 and 3 where the recipient is a non-taxable natural person or person under art. 173, para. 5 and 6, t. 1. (3) Remote sale of goods imported from third countries or territories shall be the supply of goods for which the following conditions are simultaneously available: 1. the goods shall be sent or transported by or on behalf of the supplier, including where the supplier intervenes indirectly in the dispatch or transport of the goods from third countries or territories to the consignee in a Member State; 2. the recipient of the supply is a non-taxable person; as a non-taxable person is also considered a taxable person or a non-taxable legal person who does not have an obligation to charge VAT for intra-Community acquisition of the goods in the Member State where the transport ends; 3. the goods are not: (a) new vehicles, or (b) goods to be installed and/or installed by or on behalf of the supplier; or (c) goods which are subject to a special order of taxation of the price margin for second-hand goods, works of art, collection articles and antiques. 4. the goods are dispatched or transported from third countries or territories at the time of their delivery. (4) The cases in which the goods are deemed to have been sent or transported by the supplier or on his behalf, including where he intervenes indirectly in the dispatch or transport of the goods, for the purposes of this Article shall be those within the meaning of art. 5a of Council Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/2026 of 21 November 2019 amending Regulation (EU) No 282/2011 as regards the supply of goods or services provided to facilitate electronic interface and the special arrangements for taxable persons providing services to non-taxable persons performing remote sales of goods and certain domestic supplies of goods (OB, L...) hereinafter referred to as the Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/2026.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u152	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of the Law; the text of the importer for § 1, the text of the importer for § 2; and the version proposed by the Commission of § 3. Vote 108 MPs: 82 against 9, abstention 17. The proposed texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u153	Under § 3 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 4 and shall propose the following wording: ............................................ Article 3 is replaced by the supplies to be facilitated by an electronic interface Art. 14a. (1) An electronic interface is a device or program that allows communication between two independent systems or systems and a final recipient and may include a website, portal, platform, application interface and other similar means. (2) A taxable person managing an electronic interface shall be considered to facilitate the delivery of goods where the use of the electronic interface allows a recipient and a supplier offering goods for sale to make contact that leads to the delivery of goods through that electronic interface. The taxable person managing an electronic interface shall be a person other than the supplier offering goods for sale and the recipient. (3) Goods packed together and sent simultaneously from the same consignor to the same consignee and covered by the same transport contract shall be a consignment. (4) A main supplier shall be a taxable person supplying goods or carrying out remote sales of goods imported from third countries or territories using an electronic interface. (5) Deliveries which are facilitated by an electronic interface shall be the supplies of: 1. intra-Community distance sales of goods within the territory of the European Union by a taxable person not established in the territory of the European Union and the recipient is a taxable person; 2. distance sales of goods within the territory of the European Union imported from third countries or territories in the form of consignments of their own value not exceeding the equivalent of EUR 150 by a taxable person, whether or not established in the territory of the European Union, and the recipient is a taxable person; 3. Internal remote sales of goods are supplies of goods under art. 14, para. 1, t. 3 where dispatch or transport starts and ends in the territory of the same Member State in which the recipient of a non-taxable person is established, has a permanent address or usual residence, by a taxable person not established in the territory of the European Union. 4. intra-Community distance sales of goods within the territory of the European Union where the main supplier is a taxable person established in the territory of the European Union and/or of distance sales of goods within the territory of the European Union imported from third countries or territories in the form of consignments of their own value exceeding the ex-ante equivalent of EUR 150. (6) The taxable person under para. 2 when it facilitates delivery under para. 5, t. 1 "3' of a commodity shall be considered to be a supplier and a recipient, assuming that there are two supplies at the same time: 1. delivery between the main supplier and the recipient the person responsible for managing the electronic interface; 2. delivery of the goods subject to delivery under item 2. 1, between the taxable person managing the electronic interface and the beneficiary, the non-taxable person. (7) The tax event for the supply of goods under para. 6 arises and the tax becomes due at the time of acceptance of the payment. (8) The moment of acceptance of the payment under para. 7 shall be determined according to art. 41a of Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/2026. (9) For the taxable person who manages an electronic interface and facilitates delivery under para. 5 which is considered to be a supplier where it does not apply a Union regime and a distance sales regime for goods imported from third countries or territories for delivery, the rules for the purpose of value added tax of the Member State concerned, where the recipient is established, have a permanent address or usual residence. (10) A taxable person who manages an electronic interface when registered on the basis of art. 154, 156 or 157a, is obliged to keep an electronic register under art. 159d for deliveries under para. 5 which is considered to be a provider and for the supply of telecommunications services, broadcasting services or services carried out electronically in which it participates and is deemed to act on its behalf in accordance with art. 9a of Council Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1042/2013 of 7 October 2013 amending Implementing Regulation (EU) No 282/2011 as regards the place of supply of services (OB, L 284/1 of 26 October 2013) , hereinafter referred to as the Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1042/2014. (11) A taxable person who manages an electronic interface where it is not registered on the basis of art. 154, 156 or 157a, is obliged to keep an electronic register containing summary information on the relevant tax period for the supplies under para. 5 which is considered to be a provider and for the supply of telecommunications services, broadcasting services or services carried out electronically in which it participates and is deemed to act on its behalf in accordance with art. 9a of Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1042/2013. The content of the summary information shall be determined by the rules of application of the law. (12) A taxable person managing an electronic interface for the supplies under para. 5 for which it is not considered to be a supplier and for the supply of telecommunications services, broadcasting services or services carried out electronically in which it does not participate and is not considered to act on its behalf in accordance with art. 9a of Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1042/2013 shall keep records of those goods and services. (13) The information from the registers under para. 10 and 11 and the reporting under para. 12 shall be provided upon request by a revenue body by electronic means or by electronic means in a file format defined in the Rules for the Implementation of the Law. (14) The persons referred to in para. 10, 11 and 12 keep records under para. 12 and the information in the electronic registers under para. 10 and 11 for a period of 10 years from the end of the year in which the supply was made. (15) A taxable person managing an electronic interface shall not facilitate the delivery of goods where the conditions of art are fulfilled. 5b of Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/2026. Under § 5, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 5 and shall propose the following wording: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), . (5) Place of execution on delivery of goods by the importer designated as paying value added tax for which the consignment or transport of the goods starts from the territory of a third country or territory is in the territory of the Member State of import of the goods. The place of execution of the subsequent delivery shall be in the territory of the Member State of import of the goods. Under § 6 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 6 and shall propose the following wording: ........................................................... Article 20 is amended as Place of execution on delivery of remote sale Art. 20. (1) Place of execution upon delivery of intra-Community remote sale of goods under art. 14, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 14a, para. 5, t. 1 in relation to the delivery under art. 14a, para. 6, p. 2 is the place where the goods are located at the moment when the shipment or transport of the goods to the consignee ends. (2) The place of execution when delivering remote sales of goods imported from third countries or territories under art. 14, para. Art. 3 and Art. 14a, para. 5, t. 2 in connection with the delivery under art. 14a, para. 6, p. 2 in a Member State other than that in which the goods are dispatched or transported to the consignee is the place where the goods are located at the moment when the goods are dispatched or transported to the consignee. (3) The place of execution when delivering remote sales of goods under art. 14, para. Art. 3 and Art. 14a, para. 5, t. 2 in connection with the delivery under art. 14a, para. 6, p. 2 imported from third countries or territories to the Member State where the goods are dispatched or transported to the consignee is in that Member State, provided that the tax on those goods is declared in accordance with art. 159a. (4) The place of execution when delivering goods under art. 14a, para. 6, p. 1 is the location of the goods as soon as the consignment is sent or its transport begins. (5) The place of execution of the delivery under art. 14a, para. 5, t. 3 in the case of internal remote sale of goods shall be determined under art. 17, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. According to § 7 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 7 and shall propose the following wording: .................................................... Article 3 is "Prague for determining the place of execution for supplies of intra-Community remote sales of goods and supplies of telecommunications services, of broadcasting services and of services carried out electronically. Art. 20b. (1) Not applicable Art. 20, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 21, para. 6, where the following conditions are simultaneously available: 1. the provider, including the managing electronic interface, is established, has a permanent address or usual residence in the territory of only one Member State; 2. telecommunications services, broadcasting services and electronic services shall be provided to non-taxable persons who are established, have a permanent address or usual residence in Member States other than the Member State under point. 1 or goods for intra-Community remote sales shall be sent or transported from the territory of the State under point (a). 1 to another Member State; 3. the total value without VAT of the supplies under point 3. 2 shall not exceed in the current calendar year and has not exceeded in the previous calendar year EUR 10 000 or their equivalent in the national currency of the Member State in which it is established has a permanent address or usually resided supplier under point 2. 1; the equivalence in national currency shall be determined at the exchange rate published by the European Central Bank on 5 December 2017. (2) The place of execution of the delivery under para. 1 shall be in the Member State where the supplier is established. (3) The place of execution of the supply by which the threshold referred to in para. 1, t. 3 in the relevant calendar year shall be determined by art. 20, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 21, para. 6. (4) The supplier for which the conditions under para. 1, may choose to determine the place of execution of the delivery under Art. 1. 20, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 21, para. 6. In such cases, the selection shall be applied until two calendar years have elapsed from the beginning of the calendar year following the year of selection. (5) The right to choose under para. 4 by a supplier who is established has a permanent address or usual residence only in the territory of the country, shall be exercised in accordance with art. 156, para. 16 or under the registration rules for the purposes of value added tax of the Member State concerned, where the recipient is established, has a permanent address or usual residence. (6) A supplier who is established has a permanent address or usual residence only in the territory of one Member State shall exercise the right of choice under para. 4 in the row of art. 96, para. 9. (7) When determining the threshold under para. 1, t. 3 does not include supplies of domestic distance sales of goods by a taxable person managing an electronic interface considered to be a supplier.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u154	Thank you. Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I will put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the texts of § 4, 5, 6 and 7. They voted 97 MPs: for 73, against 4, abstention 20. The texts put to the vote have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u155	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u156	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer supported by the Commission for paragraphs 8 and 9. Vote 95 MPs: 75 against 5, abstention 15. The texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u157	Proposal of the MPs Adlen Shevked and Sergey Kichikov to create a new paragraph: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 36b, para.1 with the following content: Art. 36b, para. 1. A zero-rate supply is the issue of art and scientific literature, cognitive books, textbooks and teaching aids. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u158	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal by the MPs Adlen Shevked and Sergey Kichikov. Vote 95 MPs: 23, Against 2, abstention 70. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u159	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10. Proposal by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 11 and shall propose the following wording: ..................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 57a: "Import of goods under special arrangements for remote sales of goods imported from third countries or territories Art. 57a. (1) The importer shall declare in the import customs declaration lodged that he will apply the special arrangements for remote sales of goods imported from third countries or territories, indicating his individual identification number under that procedure. (2) The customs authorities shall authorise the release of the goods without the tax being effectively introduced into the budget at that time when: 1. when carrying out a verification in the VAT identification database under the distance sales regime of goods imported from third countries or territories, it is established that the declared individual identification number under this regime is valid; 2. the own value of goods imported from third countries or territories shall not exceed the remaining equivalent of EUR 150 and the goods shall be other than excise goods; 3. the goods are intended for non-taxable persons. § 12. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 12 and shall propose the following wording: ................................................................................... Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 57b, 57c, 57d and 57e: Special arrangements for declaring and deferred payment of import tax Art. 57b. The special arrangements for declaring and deferred payment of import tax may be applied by a taxable person who, at the date of import, meets the following conditions at the same time: 1. presents goods to the customs authorities: (a) in the form of consignments of own value not exceeding the equivalent of EUR 150; (b) other than excise goods; (c) for which no special regime has been applied for remote sales of goods imported from third countries or territories under art. 152, para. 5; (d) eligible for free circulation in the territory of the country; (e) to which dispatch or transport ends in the territory of the country; (f) to which the recipient is a non-taxable person established in the territory of the country; 2. registered on the basis of art. 96, para. 1 or art. 100, para. 1; 3. is authorised for deferred payment of import duties issued in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Union customs legislation; 4. act as an indirect representative of the customs legislation of the Union. Declaration and accounting of the tax on the application of the special arrangements for declaring and deferred payment of the import tax Art. 57c. (1) In the import customs declaration lodged, the taxable person referred to in art. 57b must specify: 1. that it applies the special arrangements for declaring and deferred payment of the import tax; 2. the consignee for which the consignment is intended. (2) The levy of import tax under the special procedure shall be carried out by the customs authorities and the amount of the tax shall be taken into account in the order laid down for the customs debt. (3) Where the taxable person fulfils the conditions laid down in art. 57b, the customs authorities are allowing the release of goods without the tax being effectively introduced into the budget at this time. (4) The period for reporting the tax shall be one month. (5) The person referred to in art. 57b shall submit a monthly declaration on the special procedure for declaring and deferred payment of the import tax to the Office of Customs under a model laid down in the Rules for the Implementation of the Law. (6) In the monthly declaration under para. The total amount of VAT collected during the relevant reporting period shall be indicated. (7) The monthly declaration under para. 5 shall be submitted to the Office by electronic means by the order of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code up to the 16th including the month following the month to which it relates. (8) The person referred to in art. 57b shall keep an electronic register for the purpose of the special procedure allowing the customs authorities to verify the correct application of that procedure. (9) The structure and content of the electronic register under para. 8 shall be determined by the rules of application of the law. The information from the register shall be provided on request by the customs authorities by electronic means or by electronic means in a file format defined in the rules. (10) The person referred to in art. 57b stores the information from the electronic register under para. 8 for a period of 10 years from the year following the year in which the consignment is presented to the customs authorities. Order for payment of the tax in application of the special arrangements for declaring and deferred payment of the import tax Art. 57 C.E. (1) The recipient of the non-taxable person for whom the consignment is intended shall be obliged to pay the tax on the customs declaration of import of the person under art. 57b upon acceptance of the consignment. (2) The person referred to in art. 57b collects the tax from all recipients who accepted the consignments during the relevant period. (3) The person referred to in art. 57b shall be obliged to submit according to the order of art. 90 meetings by the beneficiaries of the non-taxable persons, tax for the relevant period within a period not later than the 16th day of the month following the month of import. Application of special arrangements for remote sales of goods imported from third countries or territories on importation of goods and special arrangements for declaring and deferred payment of import tax Art. 57e. (1) Where there are no conditions under art. Art. 57a. 57b, the general rules of the law apply. (2) For the tax paid under art. 57d for the importer under art. 57b shall not be entitled to a tax credit under the conditions of Chapter 7. (3) Where goods in the form of consignments are of their own value exceeding the equivalent of EUR 150 or are excise goods, the general rules for the import of the law shall apply. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, i.e. 2 point (b) is amended as follows: (b) (i.e. 2 shall finally be added under the conditions of Council Directive 2006/79/EC of 5 October 2006 on the exemption from the taxation of imports of small consignments of non-commercial goods from third countries (OB, L 286/15 of 17 October 2006). .?..........................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u160	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer for § 10; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 11; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of the importer for § 12; the text of the importer for § 13 with the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission, i.e. 2. They voted 102 MPs: 80, none, abstention 22. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u161	Proposal of the National Representative Christian Vigenin and a group of Members of Parliament for the establishment of § 13a: .... 13a.............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) It's 8 o'clock. medicinal products included in the positive list under art. 262 of the Act on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, paid with funds from the budget of the NHIF, medical devices and diet food for medical purposes. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u162	Thank you. Statements? Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u163	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! European Union law states that the basic rate of VAT is determined by each Member State as a percentage of the taxable base and is the same for the supply of goods and the supply of services. Member States may apply one or two reduced rates. With art. 66 of the Value Added Tax Act our national legislation determines the rate of value added tax to 20%. In addition, it has set a different rate of 9%, as we say for short for tourism. Recently to the reduced rate of 9%, with a horizon of action until 31 December 2021 and as a temporary anti-crisis measure, we added the reduced VAT for books, textbooks, restaurant and catering services, which consist of the supply of prepared or unprepared food, for foods suitable for babies or young children, for baby diapers and similar baby hygienic articles, as well as for tour operators, travel agencies and also for services for use of sports facilities, but you rejected BSP's proposal to reduce the rate of medicines. There is no more logical thing in times of crisis, and it is caused by the term pandemic spread of the coronavirus, to reduce the tax rate of medicines. The proposal to reduce the VAT of medicines is not discussed for the first time. We, from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, led by the understanding that medicines are not ordinary goods and cannot be taxed at the same rate of VAT as kebabs, for example, on several occasions we make a similar proposal, which is rejected by the majority. Forgive me, but I don't understand why the majority is reducing the tax on restaurant and catering services, on tour operators, and not going to cut it for the drugs?! In case you have not forgotten, this is recommended by the World Bank in its reports in the framework of the provision of consulting services for Bulgaria, for healthcare reforms, and in the medicinal products sector. In addition, another conclusion is that the Bulgarian pays too much out of his pocket for medicines the system for the inclusion and payment of medicines under the Health Insurance Fund is low efficiency. The share of pharmaceutical expenditure in Bulgaria reaches 38% with an average of 25% for the European Union, which is, of course, at the expense of hospital and especially outpatient care, and about 81% of the expenditure on medicines is paid from the patient's pocket. Today on the threshold of adoption of the budget, when we look at your vision for changes in tax laws, BSP again makes a proposal in art. 66, para. 2 to create t. 8 s) medicinal products included in the positive list under art. 262 of the Law on Medicinal Products and so on, i.e. to be subject to VAT at a rate of 9% and also medicines that are reimbursed by the Health Insurance Fund. If you reject this proposal again, I blame you for not realizing the effect of the reduction of VAT on medicines, in particular those paid by the Health Insurance Fund, i.e. from public funds. Users of the system for reimbursing medicines through the Health Insurance Fund are monthly over 1.5 million Bulgarian citizens who receive their completely free or partially paid medicines for which the Health Insurance Fund pays. Every year she pays millions of dollars for these drugs, of which 20%, which is also millions. By the way, there is VAT or it is money put back into the budget, but bet twice on one time with payment of the health insurance and a second time with VAT on the medicines received under the Health Insurance Fund. If I could compare it to anything else, it would be equivalent to a pension tax. More reasons for the VAT reduction requested on the medicines that we have proposed. First, the prices of medicines in Bulgaria are with some of the highest levels in Europe. The reduction from 20% to 9% of drug value added tax will give more opportunities for drug policy impact. One of the most vivid illustrations of drug policy inefficiency is the fact that free sale prices in pharmacies are often almost equal to what the patient has to pay after the partial discount of reimbursing, which is borne by the Health Insurance Fund. I can state many more motives and further arguments, but I will mention just one more motive. The reduction in the rate of value added tax on medicines and in general of essential goods is applied throughout the European Union and is normal European practice. Out of all 28 countries, Member States of the European Union, 19 have introduced differentiated rates and Malta is not charged VAT at all. The countries which do not have differentiated rates are Austria, Romania, Slovakia, Estonia, Denmark and Latvia. From this tribune, I ask you to support our proposal, because it is extremely...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u164	Thank you, Mr. Gokov, graduate.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u165	...logically and will lead to relief, including the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u166	Thank you. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Gechev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u167	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As with the other proposals of the Bulgarian Socialist Party concerning the budget, they are strongly and entirely related to European practices and as always, here are the facts about the European Union. The only two countries that do not have a differentiation of value added tax with the exception of tourism are Denmark and Bulgaria. I will make a small correction, as Austria still has an exception, and in Austria, 10% are charged for medicines. So, honourable Members, what is the European practice that we at BSP offer you for a 9% drug tax? Latvia - 12%, Slovakia - 10%, Italy - 10%, Austria - 10%, Czech Republic - 10%, Finland - 10%. Like Bulgaria - 9%, we offer you: Estonia, Romania - 9%, Poland - 8%. And we are starting now with the records, honourable Members, Belgium for the drugs - 6% VAT, Portugal - 6%, Greece - 6%, the Netherlands - 6%, Hungary - 5%, Lithuania - 5%, Cyprus - 5%, Croatia - 5%, and the record is Spain - 4%, VAT on medicines. There is no doubt that the reduction of VAT from 20% to 9% will have an effect that is related to health care in Bulgaria, the most important health and purchasing power, i.e. that Bulgarian low income families can buy medicines. As unlike other commodities, drug prices are regulated, so automatically reducing VAT from 20% to 9% will affect the price. Therefore, in conclusion, firstly, you are offered a large-scale European practice. We offer a 9% reduction in VAT, which is about the upper part of the VAT reduction in other European countries. Secondly, is it not a shame for us to rely on high VAT revenue on medicines? The more the Bulgarians are sick, you say, the bigger budget revenues there will be. European policy is the reverse increase in the costs of protecting the health of the citizens of the European Union. And it is really cynical, you have made a decision, honourable Members, to reduce the VAT on wine and beer and leave 20% on the medicines. The Bulgarian Socialist Party offers you from 20 to 9%, as this is economically justified, this is justified by the interest of the Bulgarian society and the preservation of the health of the people. And thirdly, it is related to the current crisis because in a burning crisis of COVID-19, when the majority of Bulgarian families are forced to buy medicines, you are forced to make them pay VAT higher than wine and beer is cynical. Have a nice day.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u168	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. - What's the line? There are no lines. Mr. Tishev, a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u169	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The colleagues before me have explained the essence of our proposal, namely to reduce the VAT rate on medicines on the positive list, which are paid from the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, from 20 to 9%. Our opinion is that during the health and economic crisis, which we currently have in Bulgaria as a result of the outbreak, we must adopt and implement health and social measures. And what we are proposing, namely, a reduction in VAT on medicines, is an exact social and health measure. Who are the Bulgarian citizens who use the most or most medicines? These are pensioners and children for objective reasons. Some have very low incomes, namely pensioners, others without incomes at all, which requires their parents to stir up the family budget to pay for expensive and expensive medicines. That is why our proposal is that right now, at the moment, we need such a measure - health and social. I will not repeat the arguments of colleagues, I will just say the following: after a good example by reducing the VAT to 9% of books, textbooks, children's foods, baby goods, it is right to take the next step, namely to reduce the VAT on medicines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u170	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. Are there any lines? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Christian Vigenin and a group of MPs. They voted 111 MPs: 33, against 58, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a negative vote, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u171	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the BSP! I did not support your proposal because it is a proposal that you make to accumulate a political dividend, not to do some work for people or to help people. I cannot believe that you sincerely want such a thing, given that by offering this rate of VAT for medicines, you are 20 people in a room and you are voting 20 and several people. If you are sincere, if you stand up for your proposals, we would also support them by "United Patriarchs" but not to make proposals that you do not support yourself, but to wait for the majority to support you. That's, uh, how do I put it, a little hypocritical.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u172	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Moving on, Mrs. Ilieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u173	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs for the establishment of § 13a. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 14 with the following wording: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 66, para. 2, p. 3 after the words "non-cooked food', a comma shall be added and included, consisting of the delivery of food for the home. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 15. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 16. According to § 16 there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 17 and shall propose the following wording: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 92, para. 3 is created t. 5. It's five o'clock. for sales management the person has chosen to use in a commercial site software included in the list under art. 118, para. 16................................................ Under § 17 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 18 and shall propose the following wording: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 96 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 7 t. 3 is canceled. 2. In para. 9 the words "97b" and "98" shall be replaced by "or the right to registration under art. 154, 156 and 157a. 3. The creation of para. 12: The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18 which shall become § 19. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 20. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 21. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21 which shall become § 22. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22 which shall become § 23. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23, which shall become § 24. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24, which shall become § 25. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 26. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 27. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 28.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u174	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will take into account the proposal for § 16, which was made to give the so-called relief for the companies, which are planning to use the so-called, created two years ago at the initiative of Mrs. Menda Stoyanova and then the Minister of Finance Mr. Vladislav Goranov, software for sales management in commercial sites.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u176	That's not true, exactly by order!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u177	It's not by regulation, because we're looking at the Value Added Tax Act here, and this is what this software is about, Mrs. Stoyanova, but you'll have the floor to replicate me. I hope you do it for real.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u178	Absolutely not.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u179	I'm sure you won't do it, because you have to renounce what you said two years ago in this room and outside of it, fiercely and with great rage, despite the protests of the people who were outside. Now, however, what you are doing is no less wicked than what you did then. You then obliged hundreds of thousands of companies to change their cash registers and to change the software they use to manage their commercial and other activities by trying to put under one cover all possible businesses in Bulgaria. But now I expect you to answer how much this is worth to the Bulgarian state, on the one hand, because the NRA had to introduce huge changes in its software, in its tracking systems for commercial sites, to create new servers, to make a bunch of improvements and to appoint a bunch of people to monitor this activity? How much does this cost the Ministry of Finance and the National Revenue Agency and how much does it cost the Bulgarian business? Because for those millions that these people gave to bring their software with the demands of your bill, Mrs. Stoyanova, now expect this answer from you. But now you're making another change. With what you propose in § 16, you introduce discrimination between those who have entered have spent money to introduce the sales management software and those who have not done so or will give up what they have already done. These companies, which have hundreds of millions of possible revolutions, but which for some reason do not use cash machines, will not be able to take advantage of the relief you are giving them now, and probably if they put an old computer and for 100 leva put some, whatever sales management software, they will be able to take advantage of it. If you tell me the logic of such separation of Bulgarian business, I will congratulate you. We cannot support what you offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u180	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. - What's the line? I can't see. I don't see any other comments. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission; the Commission's proposal to create a new § 14 as amended by the Commission Report; the text of the importer for § 14, which becomes § 15, § 15, which becomes § 16; the version proposed by the Commission for § 16, which becomes § 17; the version proposed by the Commission for § 17, which becomes § 18; the text of the importer for paragraphs 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, respectively, which becomes paragraphs 19 They voted 134 MPs: for 80, against 36, abstention 18. All texts put to the vote have been adopted. The way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u181	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My remark is to you, Mr. Chairman, that paragraphs of different content cannot be voted on at the same time as the Commission proposed. The national representative cannot, for example, vote differently on the proposal to reduce VAT on food supplies, vote differently on the application of the software, as well as on the other paragraphs next to the 24th, which are supported by the Commission. These are substantively different paragraphs, concerning different things from the VAT Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u182	Well, make an offer!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u183	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. First, yes, indeed the lead chooses and determines the length of the texts. On the other hand, we have practice in the National Assembly when you want a separate vote on texts that are read and discussed jointly, to make a separate vote. Until now it has not been refused and we have always voted separately when you proposed. We're moving on. Come on in, Mrs. Ilieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u184	Under § 28 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 29, and shall propose the following version: ........................ 29...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 113 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 3 t. 6 is amended as follows: It's six. for supplies under a remote sales regime of goods imported from third countries or territories or a non-Union regime; 2. In para. the second sentence is deleted; 3. The creation of para. 14: A taxable person, including one who manages an electronic interface, may not apply para. 1 for delivery of intra-Community remote sale of goods or domestic remote sales of goods where the person is registered for the application of a Union regime under this law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 30. Under § 30, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 31, and shall propose the following wording: ........................ 31...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 118 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 14 is amended as follows: A manufacturer/seller of sales management software at a commercial site may declare in the National Revenue Agency the following data and circumstances for such software: 1. the name and version of the software produced/distributed by it; 2. that the software under item 1 meets the requirements laid down in the regulation under para. 4; 3. that does not produce/ distribute software designed to change the functionality of the software under point 3. 1 and to modify, delete or otherwise manipulate the information in the database with which the software operates. 2. In para. 17 Words "Requirements of para. 14 are not applicable 3. Paragraph 18 is amended as follows: A person who has an obligation to register and report sales by issuing a fiscal bond and wishes to use sales management software at a commercial establishment may choose to manage sales to use in a commercial establishment software included in the list under para. 16. The order of choice and refusal of it, the requirements for the persons who choose to use such software, to the manufacturers/users and to the software shall be determined by the ordinance under para. 4. In a commercial facility where the person has chosen to use software included in the list under para. 16, sales management is required to use only this software. 4. A new para is being created. 19: " (19). Alinea 18 shall not apply to persons using integrated automated commercial management systems and fiscal memory electronic systems. 5. So far, the Al. 19 becomes para. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31, which shall become § 32. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs for the creation of § 31a. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes to create a new § 33: ................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 133 the following amendments are made: 1. Al. 5 is amended as follows: . (5) Foreign person not established by registered office and address of management and on a permanent establishment within the territory of the European Union but established in a third country with which the European Union has not concluded an agreement on mutual assistance similar in scope to Council Directive 2010/24/EU of 16 March 2010 on mutual assistance in the recovery of claims relating to taxes, charges and other measures (OB, L 84/1 of 31 March 2010) , hereinafter referred to as "Council Directive 2010/24/EU" and Council Regulation (EU) No 904/2010 of 7 October 2010 on administrative cooperation and combating fraud in the field of value added tax (OB, L 268/1 of 12 October 2010) , hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 904/2010' and has chosen to register on the basis and in accordance with art. 154 implementing a regime outside the Union or art. 156 for the implementation of a Union regime, shall be registered by means of an accredited representative. 2. In para. The 6th sentence is first amended as follows: "When a person under para. 1, 2 and 5 is established in another Member State or in a third country with which the European Union has concluded an agreement on mutual assistance similar in scope to Directive 2010/24/EU and Regulation (EU) No 904/2010, registration shall be carried out in accordance with the general order or in accordance with the special order of Chapter 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u185	Thank you. Statements? Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u186	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In fact, with the proposals made under § 31, including Mrs. Menda Stoyanova, it is clear, by the way, that the software for managing commercial sales becomes a However, I would like to go back a little in time with Mrs. Stoyanova and recall her words and those of Mr. Vladislav Goranov. Then they convinced us that this change in the Law, the introduction of this software as an obligation for companies and for commercial sites would lead to a brightening of the economy, would lead to additional revenue in the budget of hundreds of millions of dollars. Well, now will anyone answer when this happens voluntarily how will it shine, Mrs. Stoyanova, the Bulgarian economy? What's going to happen to the gray sector? [[Relations from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova.]] Do you give up fighting the gray sector? Obviously, yes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u187	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Are there lines? The line, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u188	Dear Mr. Danchev, what you are commenting on about these preferences is purely and simply a miscarriage that you allowed two years ago. Two years ago, when you tried to introduce SUPTO, we warned you that you weren't able to do it. Twice after that you postponed the entry into force of the regulation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u189	Your brief disagreement with Mr. Danchev, please expose.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u190	That's right, I want to explain to Mr. Danchev why I disagree. Mr. Danchev, accepting a stupidity does not justify accepting the previous stupidity. What they're currently trying to offer with these preferences is just sweeping the previous gaffe.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u191	Thank you, dear Mr. Prodanov. I can't see any other lines. Mr. Danchev, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u192	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Prodanov, it is true that you are right what the government did two years ago with the introduction of the SUPTO is a definite gaffe. And now it is a recognition that this software cannot lighten the Bulgarian economy and cannot remove the grey sector. This is Mrs. Stoyanova's confession of substance. In essence, the government must now acknowledge, Mr. Prodanov, that this software had only one goal: increasing the administrative burden and bureaucracy for the Bulgarian business; harassing the ordinary and honest trader that was the SUPTO and that is why today the government and Mrs. Stoyanova are giving it up and admit that they cannot cope with the grey sector in Bulgaria. [[speaking indistinctly]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u193	Thank you to Mr. Danchev. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u194	In the manner of my conduct is procedure, but I will take advantage of the addition of Mr. Danchev, here had an idea to assist and several software companies.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u195	Strictly in the manner of conduct, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u196	It's the way it's supposed to be. Mr. Chairman, before me, there was a proposal to vote paragraph by paragraph. Once again, I am making this proposal: from here to the end of the law, every paragraph should be voted separately and not done, as yesterday happened in the Budget Committee, to accept everything in one hour and to let no one know who voted for what and what texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u197	Where are your people there to be careful?!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u198	Do you want to do a line for me?!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u199	We can't do this by procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u200	You're not here!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u201	He can't make a line. Okay, I get it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u202	The other thing I am calling for is that you and last week have made some imaginary changes to the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly so that the quarantined colleagues can also participate in the meetings. Where are the quarantined colleagues because I don't see them and haven't seen them since this morning since you assembled the quorum?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u203	Where the other colleagues are, who are not in the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u204	So let's treat them, but the way they do your quorum in the morning...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u205	Okay, I get it, Mr. Prodanov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u206	...in the same way, give them the opportunity to speak in each paragraph and to vote in each paragraph as they see fit.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u207	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. [[Noise and lines.]] The vote on several paragraphs, apart from being a parliamentary practice, is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure and Procedure of the National Assembly. [[Heckling]] Yeah, you're suggesting, I'll deal with that.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u208	We also suggest that colleagues vote online.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u209	You cannot offer this for the simple reason that they have the will they have, as do the MPs of your group, who are not in the Chamber. We can't make such a distinction between them. Okay, if there are no other speeches, we're going to vote. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 28, which shall become § 29. They voted 120 MPs: for 70, against 26, abstention 24. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the wording of § 29, which shall become § 30. Would you mind if I put to the vote and the version proposed for § 30, which becomes § 31? They're close. You do not object to and put to the vote the two paragraphs..................................................................................... the................................................................................................................................................................... They voted 125 MPs: 75, against 22, abstention 28. The texts have been adopted. I now put to the vote the text of the importer for § 31, which becomes § 32. I hope you do not object to the Commission's proposal to create a new § 33 of the Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u210	They voted 121 MPs: for 71, against 25, abstention 25. Paragraphs have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u211	There is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs for the creation of § 31b. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes to create a new § 34: ................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 134 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the word "general' is deleted and the word "conditions' is replaced by the word "conditions'. 2. In para. 2 shall be added at the end, or in the order of art. 155 or 157 "................................................................................................ Under § 32, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for § 32, which becomes § 35, and proposes the following wording: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 135 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: . (3) The accredited representative shall be responsible jointly and unlimitedly for the obligations under this law of the registered foreign person, except in the cases referred to in art. 133, para. 5 for persons registered on the basis of art. 154 implementing a regime outside the Union and under art. 133, para. 6................................................ 2. Al. 4 is amended as follows: . (4) Alinei 1, 2 and 3 shall also apply to the representative under art. 152, para. 8, p. 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33 which shall become § 36.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u212	Are there any speeches on the proposal for a new § 34 and paragraphs 32 and 33 by importer? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm calling off the debate. We are voting for a new § 34; § 32, which becomes § 35; and § 33, which becomes § 36. They voted 121 MPs: for 73, against 22, abstention 26. The new § 34, paragraphs 32 and 33, which respectively became paragraphs 35 and 36, were adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u213	Under § 34, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 34, which becomes § 37, as para. 5 is amended as follows: For goods imported from third countries or territories, the rate of remote sales of goods may apply to goods in the form of consignments of own value not exceeding EUR 150, except for excise goods, where their imports take place in any Member State and irrespective of which Member State they are intended, by: 1. a taxable person, including who manages an electronic interface, where established within the territory of the European Union and carries out remote sales of goods within the territory of the European Union imported from third countries or territories in the form of consignments of own value not exceeding the equivalent of EUR 150; in this case the person may be represented by a representative established in the territory of the European Union, or 2. a taxable person, including who manages an electronic interface, where established in the territory of a third country with which the European Union has concluded an agreement on mutual assistance similar in scope to Directive 2010/24/EU and Regulation (EU) No 904/2010, and imports the goods from that third country in the form of consignments of its own value not exceeding the levity equivalent of EUR 150 with which he makes remote sales within the territory of the European Union; in that case the person may be represented by a representative established in the territory of the European Union, or 3. a taxable person, including one who manages an electronic interface and is established in a third country with which the European Union has not concluded an agreement on mutual assistance similar in scope to Council Directive 2010/24/EU and Regulation (EU) No 904/2010; in that case the person is necessarily represented by a representative established within the territory of the European Union. Under § 35 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 35, which becomes § 38, as in para. 1 the words "supplied' shall be replaced by "supplied'. 152, para. In the case of aid, the aid must be limited to the minimum necessary to achieve the objective of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 6 and 7 are amended as follows: The taxable person who manages an electronic interface registered in another Member State for the implementation of a Union regime for supplies of domestic distance sales of goods with recipients of non-taxable persons who are established, have a permanent address or usual residence in the territory of the country, shall apply that regime. (7) A person registered in another Member State for the implementation of a Union regime shall apply the intra-Community distance sales regime for goods with recipients of non-taxable persons who are established, have a permanent address or usual residence in the territory of the country. Under § 36, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 36, which becomes § 39 as in para. 1 is created t. 5 with the following editing: It's five o'clock. it has designated an accredited representative under art. 133, para. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u214	Statements referred to in paragraphs 34, 35 and 36 by importer? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote § 34, which shall become § 37 by the wording of the Commission; § 35, which shall become § 38 by the wording of the Commission plus an additional text; and § 36, which shall become § 39 by the wording of the Commission plus an additional text. They voted 114 MPs: for 69, against 24, abstention 21. The motion is accepted. Please signal the honourable Members to return to the Chamber, because we will soon have no quorum. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I mean, a quorum for acceptance, and otherwise we have a quorum. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We can't include coworkers. Colleagues are on their own, they have other appointments right now. Are your colleagues here? Are they in the gym? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Where are they? Look at how many empty chairs you have? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Just because Mirchev, which rarely happens, is here doesn't mean everyone else is here. [[Laughter at GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u215	According to § 37 there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 37, which shall become § 40, as in para. 8, p. 3 is amended as follows: "3." After a request from a revenue body and one month after a subsequent reminder message sent by the National Revenue Agency, the person has not provided the registers under art. 159d, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. Under § 38, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 38, which shall become § 41, and shall propose the following version: ............................................................................. Article 156 is amended as follows: Special registration for the application of the Union regime Art. 156. (1) The right to register for the application of a regime in the Union shall have a taxable person for whom the following conditions are simultaneously: 1. making deliveries to: (a) services to which recipients are non-taxable persons who are established or have a permanent address or usually reside in another Member State where the taxable person does not have a permanent establishment, and/or (b) intra-Community distance sales of goods to non-taxable persons, and/or (c) domestic distance sales of goods to non-taxable persons; 2. face: (a) has been established by registered office and management address on the territory of the country; or (b) has not been established by registered office and address of management within the territory of the European Union, but has been established on a permanent establishment within the territory of the country; or (c) has not been established by registered office and address of management in the territory of the European Union, but has been established on a permanent establishment both within the territory of the country and within the territory of another Member State and has not been registered for the application of that regime in the other Member State; or (d) has not been established by registered office and address of management and permanent establishment in the territory of the European Union, but the dispatch or transport of goods supplied by it shall start only from the territory of the country; or (e) has not been established by registered office and address of management and permanent establishment in the territory of the European Union, but the dispatch or transport of goods supplied by it shall start from both the territory of the country and the territory of other Member States and shall not be registered for the application of that regime in those Member States; 3. there is no limitation for registration under para. 15. 4. has designated an accredited representative under art. 133 in cases where the taxable person is not established by registered office and address of management and permanent establishment in the territory of the European Union. (2) The law under para. 1 shall be exercised by submitting to the competent territorial directorate of the National Revenue Agency an application for registration according to a model laid down by the Rules of Implementation of the Law. The application shall be submitted electronically by way of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code with a qualified electronic signature. (3) With the application under para. 2 the person shall provide at least the following information: 1. name, postal address, e-mail address, including websites of the person; 2. a bank account of the person in euro or BGN in a Bulgarian bank or branch of a foreign bank in the Republic of Bulgaria; 3. VAT identification numbers in other Member States; 4. permanent sites in the territory of other Member States; 5. identification numbers from previous and current registrations of the person implementing a non-Union regime, a Union regime and a remote sales regime for goods imported from third countries or territories, if any. (4) Within 7 days of receipt of the application under para. 2 The revenue body shall verify the existence of a basis for registration for the application of a regime in the Union. Within 7 days of completion of the verification, the revenue body shall issue an act with which it carries out or is motivated to refuse to carry out the registration. The award of the act on the person under para. 1 shall be carried out by electronic means. (5) The first day of the quarter following the calendar quarter of submission of the application under para. 2. (6) Identification number for the purposes of registration for the application of a regime in the Union shall be the identification number under art. 94, para. 2. (7) The date of registration shall be considered the date of the first delivery when the first delivery under para. 1, t. 1 was carried out before the date under para. 5, provided that the taxable person has submitted an application for registration under para. 2 at the latest by the 10th of the month following the date of the first delivery. (8) If the data are changed to an application submitted under para. 2 the person shall submit an electronic application for an update no later than the 10th of the month following the occurrence of the change. (9) Person registered in another Member State for the implementation of a regime in the Union who moves his place of establishment by registered office and address of management in the territory of the country if he fulfils the conditions of para. 1 may be registered on the basis of this Article. (10) Person registered in another Member State for the application of a regime in the Union where he is not established by registered office and address of management but has established on a permanent establishment in the territory of the European Union if he moves his permanent establishment to the territory of the country if he fulfils the conditions of para. 1 may be registered on the basis of this Article. (11) Person registered in another Member State for the application of a Union regime not established by registered office and address of management in the territory of the European Union but established on a permanent establishment both within the territory of the country and within the territory of another Member State if it fulfils the conditions of para. 1 may be registered on the basis of that Article after the expiry of two calendar years following the year in which it is registered for the application of a regime in the Union in the other Member State. (12) Person registered in another Member State for the application of a regime in the Union not established by registered office and address of management and permanent establishment in the territory of the European Union if he starts sending or transporting the goods supplied by him only from the territory of the country if he fulfils the conditions of para. 1 may be registered on the basis of this Article. (13) Person registered in another Member State for the implementation of a regime in the Union which is not established by registered office and address of management and permanent establishment in the territory of the European Union when he starts sending or transporting goods supplied by him both from the territory of the country and from the territory of other Member States if he fulfils the conditions of para. 1 may be registered on the basis of this Article. (14) In the cases referred to in para. The date of the change shall be deemed to be the date of registration under this Article if the person submits an application for registration under para. 2 no later than the 10th of the month following the occurrence of the change and within the same period the person shall notify the change to the Member State of identification. (15) A restriction on registration under a Union regime due to systematic non-compliance with the obligation by the person shall be in force until the end of eight consecutive tax periods from the tax period following the period of termination of the application of the regime in any Member State for the identification of the application of a non-Union regime, a regime within the Union or 24 tax periods from the tax period following the period of termination of the application of a distance sales regime for goods imported from third countries or territories. (16) Right under para. 1 to register for the implementation of a regime in the Union there is also a taxable person registered on the basis of art. Art. 96 or art. 100, para. 1 which makes deliveries with a place of execution under art. 20b, para. 4 in the territory of the country if with the application under para. 2 notify that it wishes the place of delivery to be determined according to art. 20, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 21, para. 6. (17) Where the registration for the application of a scheme in the Union of the taxable person is terminated on the grounds that the person has not delivered supplies under para. 1, t. 1 for eight consecutive tax periods, the person may be registered for the application of the regime when he re-supplies such deliveries. Under § 39, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 39, which shall become § 42, by: "1." In para. 8, p. 3 is amended as follows: "3." After a request from a revenue body and one month after a subsequent reminder message sent by the National Revenue Agency, the person has not provided the registers under art. 159d, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 2. Al. 15 is amended as follows: The date of termination of the registration for the application of the procedure shall be the first day of the quarter following the quarter of the sending of the order for registration by electronic means. In the case of para. The date of termination of registration for the application of the procedure shall be the date of the change if the person submits an application for registration under para. 2 no later than the 10th of the month following the occurrence of the change and within the same period the person submitted an application for registration for the application of the regime in the other Member State. In the case of para. 10 " 14 registered persons on the grounds of art. 156 person passes in the order of para. 2 an application for de-registered on the date of submission of the application for registration in the other Member State. In such cases, the date of the change shall be considered to be the date of termination of the registration.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u216	Are there any statements under paragraphs 37, 38 and 39? Mr. Danchev, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u217	Dear Mr. Chairman, I am doing a procedure on behalf of our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u218	Rest in 12.37 hours. At exactly 12.37 p.m., I open the meeting. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u219	Let's get back to work. There is a procedural proposal to continue with the texts and to combine more voting points. The offer is accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Ilieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u220	Under § 40, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 40, which shall become § 43 and shall propose the following wording: ..................................................... Section IIIa with art. 18a is inserted in Chapter 18. 157a and 157b: "Department IIIa" Registration for the application of a remote sales regime for goods imported from third countries or territories Special registration for the application of distance sales arrangements for goods imported from third countries or territories Art. 157a. (1) The right to register for the application of a distance sales regime for goods imported from third countries or territories shall have a taxable person, including one managing an electronic interface, where the following conditions are simultaneously available: 1. import goods from third countries or territories in the form of consignments of their own value not exceeding the equivalent of EUR 150, excluding excise goods, for non-taxable persons established, having a permanent address or usual residence in a Member State, including in the country; 2. the taxable person: (a) has been established by registered office and management address on the territory of the country; or (b) has not been established by registered office and address of management within the territory of the European Union, but has been established on a permanent establishment within the territory of the country; or (c) has not been established by registered office and address of management in the territory of the European Union, but has been established on a permanent establishment both within the territory of the country and within the territory of another Member State and has not been registered for the application of that regime in another Member State; or (d) it has not been established by registered office and address of management and permanent establishment in the territory of the European Union and has not been registered for the application of that regime in another Member State if it is established in a third country with which the European Union has concluded an agreement on mutual assistance similar in scope to Directive 2010/24/EU and Regulation (EU) No 904/2010 and imports goods from that third country; 3. there is no limitation for registration under para. 18. (2) The right to register to perform the obligations under the distance sales regime of goods imported from third countries or territories shall be registered on the basis of art. 96, para. 1 or art. 100, para. 1 person for whom the following conditions exist at the same time: 1. act as a representative on behalf of and at the expense of the taxable person under para. 1, including managing an electronic interface, in the performance of the obligations set out in the mode; 2. face: (a) has been established by registered office and management address on the territory of the country; or (b) has not been established by registered office and address of management within the territory of the European Union, but has been established on a permanent establishment within the territory of the country; or (c) has not been established by registered office and address of management in the territory of the European Union, but has been established on a permanent establishment both within the territory of the country and within the territory of another Member State and has not been registered for the application of that regime in another Member State; 3. there is no limitation for registration under para. 20. (3) The representative under para. 2 register any taxable person, including one who manages an electronic interface which is not established by its registered office and address of management and on a permanent establishment in the territory of the European Union, but is established in a third country with which the European Union has not concluded an agreement on mutual assistance in the field of VAT, has not been registered for the application of that regime to another Member State, import goods under para. 1, t. 1 and there is no limitation for registration under para. 18. Any taxable person under para. 1, t. 2, which chooses to have a representative under para. 2 for the application of a distance sales regime for goods imported from third countries or territories shall be registered by that representative if the person fulfils the conditions laid down in para. 1. (4) In the cases of para. 1, 2 and 3 the person shall submit to the competent territorial directorate of the National Revenue Agency an application for registration according to a model laid down by the Rules for Law Enforcement. The application shall be submitted by electronic means under the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code. (5) In the cases under para. 1 with the application under para. 4 the person shall provide at least the following information: 1. name, postal address, e-mail addresses, including face websites; 2. an identification number for the purposes of VAT or registration for tax purposes; 3. a bank account of the person in euro or BGN in a Bulgarian bank or branch of a foreign bank in the Republic of Bulgaria; 4. identification numbers, if any, from previous and current registrations of the person implementing a non-Union regime, a Union regime and a remote sales regime for goods imported from third countries or territories. (6) In the cases under para. 2 with the application under para. 4 the representative shall provide at least the following information: 1. name, postal address and e-mail address; 2. VAT identification number. (7) In the cases under para. 3 with the application under para. 4 the representative shall provide at least the following information: 1. name, postal address, e-mail address and websites for the taxable person it represents; 2. an identification number for the purposes of VAT or for the tax registration of the taxable person it represents; 3. a bank account of the taxable person representing, in euros or BGN, in a Bulgarian bank or branch of a foreign bank in the Republic of Bulgaria; 4. individual identification number under this mode of the representative under para. 2. (8) Registered persons shall apply this special scheme to all distance sales of goods imported from third countries or territories. (9) Within 7 days of receipt of the application under para. 4 The revenue authority shall verify the existence of a basis for registration for the application of a distance sales regime for goods imported from third countries or territories. Within 7 days of completion of the verification, the revenue body shall issue an act making the registration or reasoned refusal to register. The act shall be served electronically on the taxable person acting without a representative or on the representative. (10) The date of registration under the procedure for remote sales of goods imported from third countries or territories shall be considered as the date of service of the act under para. 9, which defines: 1. individual VAT identification number of the taxable person for the application of this scheme; 2. individual identification number of the representative for the fulfilment of the obligations under this regime; 3. an individual VAT identification number for each person represented by a representative for the application of this regime. (11) The identification number for the purposes of registration for the application of a distance sales regime for goods imported from third countries or territories shall consist of 12 alphanumerical characters and shall be used only for the purposes of the distance sales regime for goods imported from third countries or territories. (12) Person registered in another Member State for the application of a distance sales regime for goods imported from third countries or territories which is not represented by a representative and who moves his place of establishment by registered office and address of management in the territory of the country after termination of the special registration in the other Member State if he fulfils the conditions of para. 1 may be registered on the basis of this Article. (13) Person registered in another Member State for the application of a distance sales regime for goods imported from third countries or territories where it is not established by registered office and address of management but is established by a permanent establishment in the territory of the European Union which is not represented by a representative and in the event that it moves its permanent establishment into the territory of the country after termination of the special registration in the other Member State if it fulfils the conditions of para. 1 may be registered on the basis of this Article. (14) Person registered in another Member State for the application of a distance sales regime for goods imported from third countries or territories not established by registered office and address of management in the territory of the European Union but established on a permanent establishment both within the territory of the country and within the territory of another Member State which is not represented by a representative after termination of the special registration in the other Member State and if it fulfils the conditions of para. 1 may be registered on the basis of this Article after the expiry of two calendar years following the year in which it is registered for the application of a distance sales regime for goods imported from third countries or territories to the other Member State. (15) In the cases referred to in para. 12 " 14 persons may be registered by submitting an electronic application for registration under para. 4 no later than the 10th of the month following the date of change indicated by the person in the application and notified the change to the other Member State within the same period. In such cases, the date of the change shall be considered as the date of registration under this Article. (16) When changing the data under para. 5, 6 and 7 in application under para. 4, the person shall submit an electronic application for an update no later than the 10th of the month following the month of the change. (17) Alinei 12? 14 shall also apply to a representative acting on behalf of and on behalf of a taxable person carrying out remote sales of goods imported from third countries or territories if he fulfils the conditions of para. 2. In these cases, para. 15... 16. (18) A restriction to registration for the application of a distance sales regime for goods imported from third countries or territories due to systematic non-compliance with the obligation by the person shall be in force until 24 months after the tax period in which the registration is terminated where the taxable person has ceased registration in any Member State for the identification of the application of a distance sales regime for goods imported from third countries or territories or the expiry of eight consecutive tax periods from the tax period following the period of termination of a regime outside the Union or of a regime in the Union. (19) Alinea 18 shall not apply where the termination of registration for the application of the regime is due to systematic failure to comply with the obligations of the representative. (20) A restriction on the registration of a representative acting on behalf and on behalf of a taxable person due to a systematic failure to comply with the obligations of the representative relating to the application of the distance sales regime for goods imported from third countries or territories shall be valid until 24 months after the month in which registration under the regime is terminated. (21) A taxable person to whom registration for the application of the regime under art. 21 has been terminated. 157b, para. 5, t. 1 and para. 7, p. 1 on the grounds that the person has not made deliveries for 24 consecutive tax periods, whether acting with a representative or without a representative, may be registered for the application of the regime when he starts making such deliveries again. Termination of special registration for the application of the distance sales regime for goods imported from third countries or territories Art. 157b. (1) Registration for the application of the distance sales regime for goods imported from third countries or territories in the form of consignments of their own value not exceeding EUR 150, except for excise goods, shall be terminated on the initiative of a taxable person acting without a representative where: 1. no longer carries out remote sales of goods imported from third countries or territories; 2. stop meeting the conditions of art. 157a, para. 1; 3. the person chooses no longer to apply the regime regardless of whether he continues to make remote sales of goods imported from third countries or territories. (2) The registration of a representative for the application of obligations under a distance sales regime for goods imported from third countries or territories shall be terminated at the initiative of the representative where: 1. has not acted as a representative on behalf of and on behalf of a taxable person using this regime during 6 consecutive months; 2. stop meeting the conditions of art. 157a, para. 2. (3) The registration of a taxable person for the application of the distance sales regime of goods imported from third countries or territories acting through a representative shall be terminated by the representative where the taxable person: 1. no longer carries out remote sales of goods imported from third countries or territories; 2. stop meeting the conditions of art. 157a, para. 1, t. 1 and 3 or para. 3 sentence first; 3. choose to no longer apply the regime regardless of whether it continues to carry out remote sales of goods imported from third countries or territories. (4) For termination of the registration under para. The person shall submit to the competent territorial directorate of the National Revenue Agency an application for de-registered according to a model laid down by the Rules for Law Enforcement. The application shall be submitted by electronic means under the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code. (5) Registration for the application of the distance sales regime for goods imported from third countries or territories shall be terminated at the initiative of the Revenue Authority by issuing a de-registered act where it is established that the taxable person not acting through a representative: 1. has not carried out remote sales of goods imported from third countries or territories and has not submitted an application for deregistered for the application of the regime; or 2. does not meet the conditions of art. 157a, para. 1, or 3. systematically does not comply with the provisions of the regime. (6) The registration of a representative for the application of obligations under a distance sales regime for goods imported from third countries or territories shall be terminated at the initiative of the Revenue Authority by issuing a de-registered act where it is established that the representative: 1. in 6 consecutive months, he has not acted as a representative on behalf of or on behalf of a taxable person using this regime and has not applied for de-registered treatment, or 2. does not meet the conditions of art. 157a, para. 2, or 3. systematically does not comply with the provisions of the regime. (7) Registration for the application of the distance sales regime for goods imported from third countries or territories shall be terminated at the initiative of the Revenue Authority by issuing a de-registered act where it is established that a taxable person acting through a representative: 1. has not carried out remote sales of goods imported from third countries or territories and has not submitted an application for deregistered for the application of the regime; or 2. does not meet the conditions of art. 157a, para. 1, t. 1 and 3 or para. 3 sentence first, or 3. systematically does not comply with the provisions of the regime. (8) Where the taxable person, including when acting through a representative, chooses not to apply the regime, the person, respectively the representative acting on his behalf and on his behalf, shall submit an application for de-certification no later than 15 days before the end of the month preceding the month from which he intends not to apply the regime. In that case, the date of termination of registration for the application of the procedure shall be the first day of the month following the month of submission of the application for registration, after which the taxable person is not entitled to apply the procedure. (9) Registered on the basis of art. 157a, para. 1 and 2 a person who moves his place of establishment by registered office and management address in the territory of another Member State shall terminate his registration under that Article and may choose to register for the application of that regime in the other Member State. (10) When registered on the basis of art. 157a, para. 1 and 2 a person who is not established by registered office and address of management in the territory of the European Union, moves his permanent establishment into the territory of another Member State or is established by registered office and address of management or permanent establishment in the territory of another Member State may choose to register for the application of that regime in the other Member State by having to terminate his registration under that Article. (11) Registered on the basis of art. 157a, para. 1 and 2 persons who are not established by registered office and address of management in the territory of the European Union but who are established on a permanent establishment both in the territory of the country and in the territory of another Member State, after the expiry of two calendar years from the beginning of the year following the year of registration, may choose to register for the application of that regime in the other Member State, and are obliged to terminate their registration under that Article. (12) In the cases referred to in para. The person shall submit an application for registration under para. 4 no later than the 10th of the month following the date of the change indicated by the person in the application and notify the other Member State of the change within the same period. (13) Within 7 days of receipt of the application for registration under para. 4 The revenue authority shall verify the existence of grounds for termination of registration for the application of the procedure. Within 7 days of completion of the verification, the revenue authority shall issue an act by which it carries out or motivated refuses to terminate the registration. The award of the act to the person to whom the registration for the application of the procedure is suspended shall be carried out by electronic means. (14) The date of termination of registration for the application of the procedure shall be the first day of the month following the month of dispatch of the order for registration by electronic means. In the case of para. The date of the change shall be considered as the date of termination of the registration. (15) Except for cases of systematic failure to comply with the obligations of the regime under para. 16 of the taxable person, upon termination of registration, the individual VAT identification number assigned for the use of the import regime shall remain valid for the period necessary for imports of goods which were delivered before the date of termination of registration, but which shall not exceed 2 months from that date. (16) A systematic failure to comply with the obligations of the distance sales regime for goods imported from third countries or territories by a taxable person or a representative is present where: 1. on the basis of Art. 1. 159a, para. 12 of the registered person for the implementation of the procedure are sent by the National Revenue Agency reminder messages for the last three previous tax periods and the statement under art. 159a, para. 2 for each tax period has not been granted within 10 days of the sending of a reminder message; 2. on the basis of art. 159a, para. 12 of the registered person for the application of the regime has been sent by the National Revenue Agency reminder messages for the last three previous tax periods and the full amount of the tax declared for each individual tax period has not been paid by the person within 10 days after sending a reminder message, unless the remaining outstanding amount is less than EUR 100 per tax period; 3. after a request from a revenue body or from a competent tax authority of a Member State of consumption and one month after a subsequent reminder by the National Revenue Agency, the person has not provided the registers under art. 159d, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. (17) In the cases referred to in para. 5, t. 1 and 2 and para. 7, p. 1 and 2 The service of the act to the person on whom registration for the application of the procedure is suspended shall be carried out by electronic means. In such cases, the date on which the registration of the person implementing the procedure is suspended shall be the first day of the month following the month of dispatch of the order for registration by electronic means. (18) In the cases referred to in para. 5, t. 3 and para. 7, p. 3 The service of the act to a taxable person on which registration for the application of the procedure is suspended shall be carried out by electronic means. The registration shall be terminated as from the day following the date of dispatch of the registration order by electronic means. (19) In the cases referred to in para. 2 and para. 6, p. 1 and 2 The service of the act to the representative to whom the registration for the application of the procedure is suspended shall be carried out electronically and shall also be sent to the taxable persons represented by the latter. In such cases, the registration of taxable persons represented by the representative shall be terminated. Registration shall be suspended from the first day of the month following the month of dispatch of the de-registered instrument. (20) In the cases referred to in para. 6, p. 3 the date on which the registration of the representative for the application of the procedure is suspended shall be the date after the date of dispatch of the order for registration by electronic means to the representative and to the taxable persons represented by the latter. In such cases, the registration of the taxable persons represented by the applicant shall be terminated. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 41, which shall become § 44.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u221	I shall open the deliberations under § 37 to § 41 by importer. Are there any speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote: § 37, which becomes § 40 by the wording of the Commission; § 38, which becomes § 41 by the wording of the Commission; § 39, which becomes § 42 by the wording of the Commission; § 40, which becomes § 43 by the wording of the Commission; § 41, which becomes § 44 by importer. I look here from 10 paragraphs, only one remains by importer, everything else is firmly processed. Vote 113 MPs: 81 against 17, abstention 15. Paragraphs 37 to 41 by importer have been accepted and accepted the numbering from 40 to 44. Proceed with § 42 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u222	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 42, which shall become § 45. Under § 43, an offer is made by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 43, which shall become § 46 and shall propose the following wording: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Article 159 is amended as follows: "Tax period, reference period and import tax for the application of a regime outside the Union and a regime within the Union Art. 159. (1) The tax period for those registered under art. 154 and 156 persons is three months and coincides with the calendar quarter. (2) In the cases referred to in art. 154, para. Article 7 156, para. 7 the first tax period covers the time from the date of the first delivery to the end of the calendar quarter. (3) In the cases referred to in art. 154, para. Article 9 156, para. The first tax period covers the period from the date of the change to the last day including the calendar quarter during which the change took place. Accordingly, under art. 155, para. 10 and under art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 10-14, the last tax period covers the period from the first day of the calendar quarter during which the change took place until the date of the change including. (4) Registered on the basis of art. 154 or 156 a person shall submit a reference declaration for the application of a special scheme under a model laid down in the Rules for the application of the Law for each tax period within the end of the month following the tax period to which the declaration relates, whether or not it has been delivered during the period. When the last day of the month is a non-existent day, art. 22, para. 7 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code shall not apply. (5) The report under para. 4 shall be submitted to the competent territorial directorate referred to in Section II or Section III of this Chapter by electronic means. The registered persons on the basis of art. 154 and 156 persons submit the electronic declaration with a qualified electronic signature under the Tax Insurance Procedure Code by entering the data or submitting a previously generated file. The form, structure and validation scheme of the file shall be validated by order of the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency. (6) The competent territorial directorate referred to in Section II or Section III of this Chapter shall provide to the person by electronic means a unique entry number of each reference statement submitted under para. 4. (7) In reference to the statement under para. 4 specifying the person's identification number for the purposes of applying the relevant regime and separately for each Member State of consumption indicating the applicable tax rates, the total amount of the tax bases of the supplies to which the regime applies and to which the value added tax at the relevant rates has become required, the total amount of the tax due at the relevant rates, the total amount of the tax payable separately for each Member State of consumption and the total amount of the value added tax due for the relevant tax period, for: 1. supplies of services; 2. intra-Community remote sales of goods; 3. internal remote sales of goods under art. 14a, para. 5, t. 3. (8) Where the goods are sent or transported from the territory of other Member States, the reference statement shall be in addition to the information referred to in para. 7 for such supplies shall also include an identification number for the purposes of VAT or a national tax number issued to the person by the Member State from which the goods are sent or transported. (9) Registered on the basis of art. 156 a person who has one or more permanent establishments in the territory of other Member States shall also indicate the identification numbers for the purposes of VAT or national tax numbers issued by the Member States where each of the sites is located and the information under para. 7 for services carried out by those permanent establishments during the relevant tax period for which the value added tax at the applicable rates has become required and has a place of execution in the territory of a Member State of consumption where the person does not have a permanent establishment. (10) The values under para. 7, 8 and 9 shall be indicated in euro. For deliveries in other currencies, the exchange rate shall be used on the last day of the tax period, applying the exchange rate published by the European Central Bank on that day, or if there is no such rate published on that day, the rate published on the following day shall apply. (11) Registered on the basis of art. 154 or 156 persons within the time limit for submitting the statement under para. 4 is obliged to submit the total amount of value added tax due for the relevant tax period to the State budget at the account of the National Revenue Agency, in euro, without rounding it. The tax shall be deemed to be paid on the date on which the amount entered into the account. When paying the amount, the person shall indicate the input number of the reference statement concerned. (12) When registered on the basis of art. 154 or 156 a person has not submitted the statement under para. 4 or has not paid the tax under para. 11 or less, the National Revenue Agency shall send an electronic reminder to the person on the 10th day following the day on which the statement of reference was to be lodged and shall inform the other Member States by electronic means that a reminder has been issued. The subsequent actions for determining and collecting the tax after sending the reminder message by the National Revenue Agency shall be carried out by the competent tax authorities of the Member State of consumption. (13) Notwithstanding the reminders issued by the Member State of consumption and the actions taken under para. 12 The statement shall be submitted in accordance with para. 5. (14) After taking action under the order of para. 12 of the competent tax authorities of another Member State for the relevant tax period due for that Member State shall be paid at the account of that Member State. (15) In the reference to the statement under para. 4 do not indicate supplies of goods or services if they are exempted under the legislation of the Member State of consumption and supplies outside the scope of a Union regime under art. 153. (16) Where a taxable person is registered for the application of a regime outside the Union and a regime within the Union, he shall submit statements and submit the tax due in the Member States of identification for each regime. Under § 44 by importer, there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 44, which shall become § 47 and shall propose the following wording: ss ss s s s s s Article 159a is amended as follows: Tax period, reference period and tax on the application of distance sales arrangements for goods imported from third countries or territories Art. 159a. (1) The tax period for those registered under art. 157 faces is one month. (2) The reference to the application of a distance sales regime for goods imported from third countries or territories shall be submitted by a person registered on the basis of art. 157a according to a model set out in the Rules of Implementation of the Law. (3) The statement referred to in para. 2 shall be submitted to the competent territorial directorate for each tax period within the end of the month following the tax period to which the declaration relates, irrespective of whether supplies have been made during the period. When the last day of the month is a non-existent day, art. 22, para. 7 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code shall not apply. (4) The statement referred to in para. 2 shall be submitted electronically in accordance with the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code by entering the data or submitting a previously generated file. The form, structure and validation scheme of the file shall be validated by order of the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency. (5) The representative under art. 157a, para. 2 submit a reference declaration under para. 2 for each person represented by him by a registered person under art. 157a, para. 3. (6) The competent territorial directorate shall provide the person by electronic means with a unique entry number for each reference statement submitted under para. 2. (7) In reference to the statement under para. 2 shall be indicated by the person identification number for the purposes of applying this regime and separately for each Member State of consumption shall be indicated the applicable tax rates, the total amount of the tax bases of the supplies to which the regime applies and for which the value added tax at the relevant rates has become required, the total amount of the tax due at the relevant rates, the total amount of the tax payable separately for each Member State and the total amount of the value added tax payable for the relevant tax period. (8) Mistakes made (not reflected and/or incorrectly reflected) in the reference declaration submitted shall be corrected for up to three years from the expiry of the period for submitting the original reference declaration, including after the application of that regime. (9) Corrections of errors made under para. 8 shall be carried out in the following reference statement under para. 2, including for credit and/or debit delivery notices issued during a previous period, indicating the Member State of consumption concerned, the tax period and the amount of tax in respect of which adjustments are required. After that period, adjustments to the reference declaration submitted shall be made in accordance with the legislation of the Member State of consumption concerned. Where the Member State is a Member State of consumption, the adjustments shall be made in accordance with the Rules of Implementation of the Law. (10) The values under para. 7 and 9 shall be indicated in euro. For deliveries in other currencies, the exchange rate shall be used on the last day of the tax period, applying the exchange rate published by the European Central Bank on that day, or if there is no such rate published on that day, the rate published on the following day shall apply. (11) Registered on the basis of art. 157a, para. 1 and 2 persons shall be subject to the term under para. 3 to submit the statement of reference to submit the total amount of value added tax due for the relevant tax period to the State budget on the account of the National Revenue Agency, in euro, without rounding it. The tax shall be deemed to be paid on the date on which the amount entered into the account. When paying the amount, the person shall indicate the input number of the reference statement concerned. (12) When registered on the basis of art. 157a, para. 1 and 2 persons have not submitted within the term under para. 3 the reference declaration or has not paid the tax under para. 11 or less, the National Revenue Agency shall send an electronic reminder to the person on the 10th day following the day on which the statement of reference was to be lodged and shall inform the other Member States by electronic means that a reminder has been issued. The subsequent actions for determining and collecting the tax after sending the reminder message by the National Revenue Agency shall be carried out by the competent tax authorities of the Member State of consumption. (13) Notwithstanding the issued reminders and the actions taken under para. 12 The statement shall be submitted in accordance with para. 3. (14) After taking action under the order of para. 12 of the competent tax authorities of another Member State for the relevant tax period due for that Member State shall be paid to the account of that Member State.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u223	Thank you, Mrs. Ilieva. Are there any statements under paragraphs 42, 43 and 44 by importer? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote § 42, which shall become § 45 by importer; § 43, which shall become § 46 by version of the Commission; § 44, which shall become § 47 by version of the Commission. Vote 127 MPs: 92 against 19, abstentioned 16. Paragraphs have been adopted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u224	Under § 45, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 45, which shall become § 48, as in art. 159b is created. 5 and 6. . (5) Person registered on the basis of art. 156 which is not established in the territory of the European Union and is not registered on the basis of art. 96, is entitled to reimbursement of value added tax for received supplies of goods and/or services with a place of execution on the territory of the country in relation to supplies to which the person applies the regime, pursuant to art. 81, para. 2 intended for persons not established in the territory of the European Union. (6) Where a person is registered on the basis of art. Article 156 and on the basis of Art. 96, is entitled to deduct tax credit under the general rules of the law on supplies of goods received and/or services with a place of execution within the territory of the country in respect of supplies made by the person to which the regime applies.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u225	Please, just for a moment. There's an urgent insistence on procedure here. Mr. Alexander Ivanov raised his hand 15 minutes ago. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u226	Dear Mr President, I ask you to put to the vote today's sitting to be extended until the end of this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u227	Thank you. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. Everyone agrees to work until the adoption of the Law is complete. I put to the vote Mr. Ivanov's procedural proposal. Vote 120 MPs: 89, against 17, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. The time has been extended to the adoption of the Law. Mrs. Ilieva, let us also announce § 45, which becomes § 48 by the President of the Commission. First of all, are there any statements on the paragraph? [[Heckling]] Please, if you have speeches, not from where you are. There aren't any. I'm calling off the debate. Keep order in the court! Voting regime § 45, which becomes § 48 with the version of the Commission. They voted 121 MPs: 86, against 16, abstention 19. Paragraph 45 has been accepted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u228	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the wording of the importer for § 46, which becomes § 49 and proposes the following wording: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 159c is amended as follows: "Tax credit on application of remote sales regime for goods imported from third countries or territories Art. 159c. (1) Person registered in another Member State for the application of a distance sales regime for goods imported from third countries or territories established within the territory of the European Union, if registered on the basis of art. Art. 96, 97 or 100, para. 1 shall be entitled to deduct tax credit under the general rules of the law on supplies of goods received and/or services with a place of execution within the territory of the country in respect of supplies to which the person applies the regime. (2) Person registered in another Member State for the application of a distance sales regime for goods imported from third countries or territories...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u229	Colleagues, please be quiet! We've just crossed the middle of the law. We're almost there.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u230	?... which is established in the territory of the European Union, if not registered on the basis of art. Art. 96, 97 or 100, para. 1 shall be entitled to a refund for received supplies of goods and/or services with a place of execution in the territory of the country in respect of supplies to which the person applies the regime, in accordance with art. 81, para. 2 intended for persons not established in the Member State of refund but established in the territory of the European Union. (3) Person registered on the basis of art. 157a which is not established in the territory of the European Union and is not registered on the basis of art. 96, is entitled to reimbursement of value added tax for received supplies of goods and/or services with a place of execution on the territory of the country in relation to supplies to which the person applies the regime, pursuant to art. 81, para. 2 intended for persons not established in the territory of the European Union. (4) Person registered on the basis of art. 157a, which is not established in the territory of the European Union, if registered and on the basis of art. 96, is entitled to deduct tax credit under the general rules of the law on supplies of goods received and/or services with a place of execution within the territory of the country in respect of supplies made by the person to which the regime applies. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs under § 47. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 47, which becomes § 50, as para. 1 is amended as follows: s (1) Registered on the basis of art. 154, 156 or 157a person or taxable person not registered on the basis of art. 156 or 157a, para. 1 and 3 and not registered in another Member State for the implementation of a Union regime, a non-Union regime or a distance sales regime for goods imported from third countries or territories and supplies under art. 14 with a place of execution on the territory of the country, is obliged to keep an electronic register. Under § 48, there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 48, which shall become § 51, as para. 2 is amended as follows: 2 Credit and/or debit delivery notice issued during the previous period shall be reflected in accordance with para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 49, which shall become § 52, by: "1." In para. 2 after the words. 159, para. Article 14 (a) (i) and (ii) is replaced by the following: 159a, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2. In para. 3 after the words................................................................................................. 159a, para. Eight and nine or two. 3. In para. 5 after the words........................................................................................... 154 "Sixteen" is added. "Sixteen" or "Sixteen" or "Sixteen" or Under § 50, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 50 which shall become § 53 as in art. 159g is created para. 6: Where a person established in a third country with whom the European Union has not entered into an agreement on mutual assistance in the field of VAT, similar in scope to Directive 2010/24/EU and Regulation (EU) No 904/2010, and is registered in another Member State for the application of a distance sales regime for goods imported from third countries or territories, is represented by a representative registered for the application of obligations under the regime in the other Member State, the representative shall be liable jointly and unlimited for the obligations under this law relating to the application of the regime. Under § 51, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 51, which shall become § 54. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 52, which shall become 55. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 53, which shall become § 56.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u231	I open the debate on paragraphs 46.. 53 by importer. Are there any speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote § 46, which shall become § 49 by the wording of the Commission; § 47 by the wording of the Commission; § 50 by the wording of the Commission; § 48 shall become § 51 by the wording of the Commission; paragraphs 49 and 52 by the wording of the Commission; § 50, which shall become § 53 by the wording of the Commission. Here, pay close attention to paragraphs 51, 52 and 53 become paragraphs 54, 55 and 56. These are the first in a long period of time to be imported. In other words, Mrs. Menda Stoyanova has not changed them. I'm voting on all these paragraphs. They voted 122 MPs: 88, against 19, abstention 15. Paragraphs 46 to 53 by importer are adopted by taking numbering from 49 to 56, a new numbering. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u232	Under § 54, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 54, which shall become § 57 and shall propose the following wording: ...... 57............................................................... Article 180b is amended as follows: Art. 180b. (1) Person not established in the territory of the country and registered in another Member State for the application of a Union regime, a non-Union regime or a distance sales regime for goods imported from third countries or territories or a representative registered for the application of obligations under the relevant regime in another Member State to represent such person or registered person under art. 154, 156 or 157a, which did not charge value added tax for supplies made with a place of execution on the territory of the country in the tax period in which the supply tax is due, shall be punished by a fine for natural persons who are not traders, or by a charge of payment for legal persons and sole traders, amounting to 25 per cent of the unpaid tax or tax of a smaller amount, but not less than 250 BGN. (2) In case of repeated infringement under para. 1 the amount of the fine or penalty is the two-time amount of the unpaid tax, but not less than BGN 5000. According to § 55 there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 55, which shall become § 58, and after the words "to lead the comma' shall be deleted and added to the words "to trade' and the words "to trade' shall be replaced by "not to trade'. Under § 56, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 56, which shall become § 59, the words appearing in the list referred to in art. 118, para. 16 and which shall be replaced by.............................................................................................................. 118, para. 16, but that's what I'm talking about. Under § 57, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 57, which shall become § 60, and shall propose the following wording: ........................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 186, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) (a) in the text before t. 1 the words save the order or manner of the...................................................................................................... (b) point (s) is amended as follows: s) issued a relevant document for sale under art. 118; (c) point (b) is amended as follows: (b) enter into service or not register with the National Revenue Agency a fiscal device or an integrated automated commercial management system; (d) point (d) is amended as follows: (d) submit data from the Single System of fiscal sales under art. 118 at the National Revenue Agency; (e) point (e) is repealed. 2. Point 3 is repealed. 3. point 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. has chosen to manage sales in a commercial establishment through software included in the list under art. 118, para. 16, but for sales management uses in this commercial site software/Module of software not included in the list under art. 118, para. 16................................................ Under § 58, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the wording of the importer for § 58, which becomes § 61 and proposes the following wording: ......... 61..................................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 186a: Art. 186a. Notwithstanding the prescribed fine or penalty, the compulsory administrative measure under art. 186 shall not apply to a person under art. 118, para. 18, which for the first time did not issue a relevant document for sale under art. 118, provided that sales management has chosen and used only software included in the list under art. 118, para. 16................................................ The Commission proposes to reject § 59 as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 62.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u233	Thank you. I shall open the deliberations referred to in paragraphs 54 to 59 by importer. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote § 54, which shall become § 57 in the version of the Commission; § 55, which shall become § 58; § 56, respectively, § 59 in the version of the Commission; § 57, which shall become § 60 in the version of the Commission; § 58, which shall become § 61 in the version of the Commission; and the rejection of § 59 by importer. They voted 120 MPs: 89, against 13, abstention 18. Paragraphs 54 to 59 have been adopted, this is the numbering by importer, which become respectively paragraphs 57 to 61 including, and § 59 is rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u234	Under § 60, there is a proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 60, which shall become § 62, and shall propose the following wording: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In § 1: (a) C. The 11th sentence of the third sentence is amended as follows: the second sentence shall not apply for the purposes of applying a Union regime, a non-Union regime or a remote sales regime for goods imported from third countries or territories. (b) t. 61 is amended as follows: .. 61. Restaurant and catering services are restaurant services and catering services within the meaning of Article 6 of Council Implementing Regulation (EU) No 282/2011 of 15 March 2011 laying down implementing measures for Directive 2006/112/EC on the common system of value added tax. It is not a restaurant or catering service delivery of prepared or unprepared food from supermarkets, shops and the like. c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) (d) Point 63 is amended as follows: "63." The third country with which the European Union has legal instruments for mutual assistance is a third country with which the Union has concluded an agreement on mutual assistance similar in scope to Directive 2010/24/EU and Regulation (EU) No 904/2010. (e) Points 79, 80 and 81 are repealed. (f) Created t. 102 and 103: ..102. "Register" under art. 159d, para. 1 is a register which contains the information from art. 63c of Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/2026. 103. The integrity of art. 14a, para. The information referred to in Article 12 (a) shall be included in the information referred to in Article 12 (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. 54c (2) of Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/2026. 2. In § 1a of the additional provisions, t is created. 18: 18. Council Directive (EU) 2019/1995 of 21 November 2019 amending Directive 2006/112/EC as regards the provisions relating to distance sales of goods and certain inland supplies of goods.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u235	That's it. We will discuss and vote respectively § 60. Are there any statements under § 60? I can't see. I shall put to the vote § 60, which shall become § 62 in the version of the Commission. They voted 111 MPs: 85 against 16, abstention 10. Paragraph 60 with a new numbering § 62 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u236	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 61, which becomes § 63, as in para. 3 the words in the order of the amended chapter of the preceding chapter shall be replaced by the new row. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 62, which shall become § 64. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 63, which shall become § 65. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 64, which shall become § 66. Under § 65, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 65, which shall become § 67, and shall propose the following wording: ................. 67................................................................. (1) Taxable person registered in accordance with the procedure of the repealed art. 97b, 98 and 100, para. 3 shall be deemed to be registered in accordance with Article 3. 96, para. 9 on 1 July 2021 (2) The procedures for registration under the procedure of the repealed art. 97b and 98 shall be continued in accordance with the procedure for registration of art. 96, para. 9. (3) Where the taxable person registered in accordance with the procedure of the repealed art. 97b and 98, has chosen to register for the application of a regime in the Union, a regime outside the Union or a regime for remote sales of goods imported from third countries or territories to another Member State or under art. 154, the provisions of para. 1 and 2 shall not apply provided that the person has electronically notified the competent territorial directorate of the National Revenue Agency of that choice by 30 June 2021 including. (4) Taxable person registered under art. 96, 97, 99 or 100, para. 1, 2 and 3, established by registered office and address of management in the United Kingdom of Great Britain or in a third country with which the European Union has not concluded an agreement on mutual assistance similar in scope to Directive 2010/24/EU and Regulation (EU) No 904/2010, shall be deemed to be registered under the law if it designates an accredited representative under art. 133 and notify in writing the competent territorial directorate of the National Revenue Agency by 31 March 2021 inclusive. (5) Taxable person registered under art. 98 established by headquarters and address of government in the United Kingdom of Great Britain shall be considered as registered under art. 96, para. 9, if he designates an accredited representative under art. 133 to 15 January 2021 inclusive. (6) Registration under para. 5 shall be carried out in accordance with Article 5. 101 in the territorial directorate of the National Revenue Agency under art. 8 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. (7) If a taxable person registered under art. 98 established by registered office and management address in the United Kingdom of Great Britain did not designate an accredited representative within the period under para. 5, its registration shall be terminated at the initiative of the Revenue Authority by issuing a de-registered act. (8) In the cases under para. 7 the order for the registration shall not be served on the person, but the date of the registration shall be the date on which the period under para. 5. (9) If the taxable person under para. 4 did not designate an accredited representative within that period, its registration shall be terminated at the initiative of a revenue body with the issue of a de-registered act. (10) In the cases referred to in para. 9 the order for the registration shall not be served on the person, but the date of the registration shall be the date on which the period under para. 4. (11) In the case of the registration under para. 7 and 9 shall be assumed to be the person making the delivery under art. 111. (12) The terms of the current article. 20, para. 2 and 6 shall apply to goods dispatched or transported from another Member State to the territory of the country before 1 July 2021 and arriving on the territory of the country on or after 1 July 2021. (13) The persons registered under this law for supplies of goods under the terms of the current article. 20, para. 1 and 5 sent or transported from the territory of the country before 1 July 2021 and arriving on or after 1 July 2021 to the territory of another Member State shall apply the VAT legislation of that Member State. (14) For goods purchased from a third territory or third country before 1 July 2021 and arriving in the territory of the European Union on or after 1 July 2021, the common import rules shall apply. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 66, which shall become § 68, and shall propose the following wording: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss For persons who have submitted a declaration to the National Revenue Agency under art. 118, para. 14 for sales management software in commercial establishments until the entry into force of this law, it is considered to comply with the requirements of this law. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 67, which becomes § 69, and the words of the Value Added Tax Act are deleted. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle and proposes to create § 70: ...... 70......................................................................... Paragraphs 14 and 62, p. 1, b. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u237	Thank you, Mrs. Ilieva. I shall open the deliberations referred to in paragraphs 61 to 67 by importer, as well as the proposal for a new § 70. I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I vote: paragraphs 61 to 63 by importer, which become paragraphs 63 to 65; § 64, which becomes § 66 by importer; § 65, which becomes § 67 in the version of the Commission; § 66, which becomes § 68 in the version of the Commission; § 67, which becomes § 69 in the version of the Commission; and the new § 70, which you have just heard. Vote 110 MPs: 84, against 12, abstention 14. Paragraphs 61 to 67 and a new § 70 are adopted by a new numbering of paragraphs 63 to 70. Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u238	Under § 68, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the wording of the importer for § 68, which shall become § 71 and shall propose the following wording: seventy-seventy-seventy-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-six. In the Law on excises and tax warehouses (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22, para. 3, p. At the end, a comma shall be placed and added, including when using ethyl alcohol used to clean and/or disinfect equipment used for the manufacture of medicinal products. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: The customs authorities shall take samples for laboratory analysis to establish the quantity of the excise goods in the final product and to determine the CN code. Samples can be taken at any stage of the production process. (b) the creation of para. 9 and 10: Where, in order to clarify all the facts and circumstances relevant to the issue of the excise-free end-user certificate, an opinion from another body is required, including in the case of laboratory expertise for samples taken for laboratory analysis, the period under para. Six is considered to be extended, but not more than three months. (10) In the cases referred to in para. 9 persons shall be notified in writing. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Art. 43, para. 5 is amended as s (5) The last tax period covers the time: 1. from the beginning of the calendar month during which the licence or registration was terminated until the date of notification of the decision to terminate them; 2. from the beginning of the calendar month during which the termination decision entered into force until the date of entry into force of the termination decision, upon suspension of the prior execution of: (a) a decision to terminate the tax warehouse management licence; or (b) a decision of the Director of the responsible territorial directorate to terminate registration. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1: (aa) c. 1 the word "the account" shall be replaced by the account of the Customs Agency; (bb) c. 2 the words the account of the customs office of charge shall be replaced by the account of the Office of Customs; (c) c. 3 the words "the account of the customs office responsible at a permanent address, respectively the office of employment and the comma after them shall be replaced by the account of the Office of Customs'; (dd) c. 4 the words "the competent customs office' shall be replaced by "Agency'; d) c) c) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) D) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) (f) c. 7 the words "the account of the customs office responsible at the location of the premises' shall be replaced by the account of the customs office responsible; (jg) c. 8 the words the customs office which issued the revision act shall be replaced by the Office of Customs; (b) in para. 3 the word "the account" shall be replaced by the account of the Customs Agency; (c) the creation of para. 7? 9: . (7) A virtual account shall be opened to each taxable person reflecting the payments received for claims under the excise legislation under its respective identifier EIC/BULSTAT/GNN/LCH. (8) In the case of several claims under the excise legislation which the person is not able to repay simultaneously until the expiry of the period for the payment of the excise duty under para. 1, he can state which of them is being repaid. If this is not stated, they shall be repaid in proportion, in accordance with the order of art. 169, para. 1 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. The application may be made: 1. in the case of cash payment, by individualising in writing the obligation to be repaid; 2. in case of cashless payment by prioritizing in the virtual account of the debtor. (9) In the cases under para. 8, p. 1 the written application shall be submitted to the territorial directorate in which the person having an obligation wishes to declare his repayment. In order to examine the application, it should be received within the period laid down in para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 52, para. 1, t. 1 shall be added at the end, with the exception of the cases of authorisation granted under art. 79, para. 10.................................................................................. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57a, para. 10 is finally placed comma and added by registering the local legal entity. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 75b, para. 4 the words "the corresponding tax period' shall be replaced by "six consecutive tax periods' and a sentence shall be created second: "In the event that there is a missing for which excise duty is due and it is paid in the country, no decision is issued to establish an obligation to pay the excise duty of the consignor.' 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 76b is created. 4 and 5. (4) In case the excise goods sent are refused by the recipient and will be returned to the territory of the country, the person shall notify in accordance with art. 76c, para. 4 t. 1 immediately the competent customs office by submitting the relevant document under art. 76a, para. 1, 2 or 8. (5) When entering the territory of the country returned under para. 4 excise goods customs officials should clearly establish that they are exempt from consumption within the territory of the country and have been sent to another Member State with a simplified accompanying document/trade document. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 77, para. Article 2 shall be added at the end. 79, para. 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), a) Previous text becomes para. 1; (b) the creation of para. At the request of the authorised warehousekeeper, where the exemption for the consumption of excise goods will exceed the security fixed and granted for the tax warehouse, it may be permitted to exceed it provided that the following conditions are met at the same time: 1. the excess of the security is not more than 25% of the security defined and provided for the tax warehouse; 2. the amount requested to exceed the security fixed and provided for the tax warehouse has been received on the account of the Customs Agency at the date of submission of the request; 3. the authorised warehousekeeper has not had a late payment of excise duty in the last 12 tax periods; 4. the excess refers to the current or next tax period; 5. the request has not been submitted during a period for which the prior implementation of a decision to withdraw and terminate a tax warehouse management licence has been suspended. (3) Upon authorisation the amount received under para. 2, p. 2 shall be used to repay the excise duty for the specified tax period under para. 6, p. 6. (4) The request under para. 1 shall be submitted within the following time limits: 1. to the 10th of the month when referring to the current tax period; 2. until the end of the current month when it comes to the next tax period. (5) Permission to exceed the security fixed and granted for the tax warehouse shall be eligible to be issued up to three times for 12 consecutive tax periods. (6) The request for authorisation to exceed the security specified and provided for the tax warehouse shall be submitted to the Director of the territorial directorate of the location of the tax warehouse and shall contain details of: 1. the person who submitted the request for a name, registered office, management address, unique identification code and e-mail; 2. names of the representative/author who submitted the request; 3. the identification number of the authorised warehousekeeper; 4. the identification number of the tax warehouse; 5. reasons for which authorisation to exceed an established guarantee is requested; 6. the tax period to which it relates; 7. date and signature of the representative/authority. (7) A document shall be submitted to the request for authorisation to exceed the security specified and provided for the tax warehouse indicating that the amount has been received on the account of the Office of Customs at the date of submission of the request. No interest is due on the amount granted which is required to exceed the security defined and provided for the tax warehouse. (8) When irregularities are established, the director of the territorial directorate shall inform the person to remove irregularities within three days of the notification thereof, indicating that their suspension will result in termination of proceedings. (9) Within the time limit set by para. 8, the person making the request must remove irregularities and, in the event of failure to comply with that obligation, the Director of the territorial directorate shall issue a decision terminating the proceedings. The decision to terminate the proceedings shall be subject to appeal under Section IV of Chapter 10 of the Administrative Procedure Code. (10) The Director of the territorial directorate within 7 days of the receipt of the request, respectively, from the removal of the irregularities therein, shall issue or refuse the authorisation to exceed the security defined and granted for the tax warehouse in whole or in part. Failure to produce within the time limit shall be deemed to be a silent refusal entirely on the request made. (11) The Act under para. 10 shall be subject to appeal under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. (12) In the event of refusal of authorisation, the amount granted under para. 7 shall be restored or intercepted in accordance with Article 7. 27 in the part for which the refusal was received. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), a) Al. 1 is amended as follows: 1 Where customs legislation does not require or require customs duties to be secured, the excise duty shall not be secured or secured in accordance with the amounts set out in the customs legislation and in the order for customs duties to be secured. (b) Al. Two is canceled. 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2, p. 1 sentence 2 is created: "Forbiddenness does not apply to the supply and sale of cigarettes in the cases referred to in art. 39b, para. 2 and 3; 13. Article 7 shall be inserted in Chapter 7. 101c: Art. 101c. (1) The movement of excise goods released for consumption shall be prohibited from the moment of their removal from the tax warehouse or from the premises of art. 56, para. 1 to the place of their delivery and unloading without accompanying them from a paper copy of the registered electronic excise tax document or from the original of the excise tax document. (2) In the case of movement, transhipment and delivery/receipt of liquid fuels released for consumption, the excise duty shall be certified by the presentation of the registered electronic excise tax document for which data have been submitted within the time limit and in accordance with art. 118, para. 10 of the Value Added Tax Act. Suppliers/recipients for supply of liquid fuels released for consumption that have not submitted data to the National Revenue Agency should comply with the conditions of art. 118, para. 11 of the Value Added Tax Act. (3) The recipients of a registered electronic excise tax document or an excise tax document shall be obliged to store at the places where the excise goods released for consumption are held: 1. signed by the compiler and certified by the printing of the publisher a paper copy of the registered electronic excise tax document; 2. original of the excise tax document with completed all required props. (4) Alinea 3, p. 1 shall not apply to the consignee by registered electronic excise tax document where he is the issuer of the document and where he holds the excise goods, an automated reporting system shall be used. (5) Persons who are not registered as recipients in the electronic excise tax document shall be obliged to store at the places where they hold liquid fuels released for consumption: 1. a copy of the registered electronic excise tax document on which the fuels are obtained and for which the requirements of art. 118, para. 10 or the terms of art. 118, para. 11 of the Value Added Tax Act; [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u239	Quiet, please! We're getting into the most interesting part. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u240	"2." original or copy of a bill of lading, commercial or other document containing information identifying the supplier, consignee, means of transport, type, quantity, exact place and date of receipt of liquid fuels. (6) In the cases of para. 2 and para. 5, t. 1 with the data submitted in accordance with Art. 1. 118, para. 10 or reported according to the order of art. 118, para. 11 of the Value Added Tax Act, no declaration of another supply or receipt of the same quantities of fuels or supplies/receiving exceeding the total amount of liquid fuels released for consumption under the document shall be permitted. (7) The receipt of liquid fuels at the places under para. 5 shall be certified on the documents dated, name, signature and stamp by the materially responsible persons. (8) The documents under para. 3 and 5 shall be stored at the places where excise goods are held until their consumption or until their quantity is exhausted, but not less than one month after the document is drawn up. After the expiry of the period, the originals of the documents shall be kept in the person or other place specified by him and submitted upon request. 14. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: No. 104, para. 1 the words "Mythical authorities" shall be replaced by "Mythical officials." 15. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 124, para. 1 after the words "art.126" a comma is placed and added a "al." One and two. 16. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) paragraphs 2 and 3 are amended as follows: (2) The punishments under para. 1 shall also be imposed on a person who holds, carries, overloads or delivers/ receives excise goods in violation of the prohibitions and requirements for tax and other documents under art. 101c, para. 1, 2, 3 or 5. (3) The punishments under para. 2 shall not be imposed in the case of missing documents under art. 101c, para. 5, t. 2 or missing certification by art. 101c, para. 7 if the following conditions are fulfilled simultaneously: 1. until the verification has been completed by the person or his legal representative, information identifying the supplier, means of transport, type, quantity, exact place and date of receipt of the liquid fuels has been declared to the customs authorities; 2. the customs authorities have determined that at the date of the verification of the registered electronic excise tax document have not been declared in accordance with art. 118, para. 10 or reported according to the order of art. 118, para. 11 of the Value Added Tax Act, other supplies or obtaining the same quantities of fuels, or supplies/receipts, which exceed the total amount of liquid fuels released for consumption under the document. (b) paragraph 4 is repealed. 17. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 128 is 5 (5) In the case of infringement under art. 120, para. 5, the place of the infringement shall be the permanent address for the natural persons or the registered office and the address of the management for the legal persons.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u241	Are there any statements under § 68 by importer? I can't see. We are going to vote on § 68, which becomes § 71 by the wording of the Commission. Vote 110 MPs: 78 against 19, abstention 13. Paragraph 68 with a new numbering § 71 has been accepted. Mrs. Stoyanova, you don't have to wave so hard. I saw you. What do you want? [[Radio.]] Go ahead. You have no right to take your own word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u242	Mr. Chairman, we just voted...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u243	I'll take your word for it. What did you go to the stands for? Tell me. Tell me about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u244	We just voted § 70.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u245	Do you have a statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u246	No, it's a procedure, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u247	You didn't say. You want procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u248	Mr. Chairman, we just voted § 70 on paragraphs 14 and 62. Here in the text, unfortunately, a mistake has been made and instead of
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u249	Is there a reverse offer? [[(Replies from the BSP for ……]] Yes, it has been voted on, but it is still expected to close the establishments much sooner than the measure will enter into force, so it will not be effective. The proposal is to enter from December 1st. I don't see any reverse procedure. I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 111 MPs: 80 against 16, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. I shall put the entire § 70 to the vote with the editorial amendment tabled. They voted 105 MPs: 79, against 14, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u250	Under § 69, there is a proposal of the MP Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs: In the transitional and final provisions, a new item should be added to § 69. 12 containing: ..12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: No. 209, para. 1 the number "sixteen' is replaced by "sixteen' and "sixteen' is replaced The following points shall be renumbered accordingly. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Christian Vigenin and a group of MPs: In Transitional and Final Provisions, § 69 is created. 11a: 11 o'clock. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: No. 209, para. 1 the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Adlen Shevked and Sergey Kichikov: In the transitional and final provisions of § 69 of the Corporate Income Tax Act, in the established para. Article 7 55, c. 2 words or mobile phones to drop. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 69, which shall become § 72 and shall propose the following wording: ................. In the Law on Corporate Income Tax (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The 55th para is For the following category IV assets, the annual tax amortization rate shall not exceed 100 per cent: 1. software or right to use software included in the list under art. 118, para. 16 of the Value Added Tax Act; 2. computers, peripheral devices for them or mobile phones on which software is installed included in the list under art. 118, para. 16 of the Value Added Tax Act. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) c. 1 the words "the previous year' shall be replaced by "the year before the previous year'; (b) c. 2 the following year is added after the words the establishment. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 84 the words "the previous year' shall be replaced by "the year before the previous year'. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 87a, para. 1 the words "the annual tax return for the previous calendar year' shall be replaced by "the template' within 1 March to 15 April of that year. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 88, para. 1 after the words may be lodged, the submission shall be added by 15 November of the year concerned. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 all over the words..20 of the hundred.. are replaced by.25 of the hundred.. (b) in para. 2, p. 1 and 2 the number 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1: (aa) c. 2 the word "December" is replaced by "November"; (bb) The creation of a t. 3: "3." for the month of December,.. by 1 December of the current calendar (b) in para. 2 the words "December 15th" shall be replaced by "December 1st." 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 92, para. 2 the words "up to 31 March" shall be replaced by "from 1 March to 30 June." 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 93 the words "up to 31 March" shall be replaced by "up to 30 June." 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 118, para. 1 is finally added in the year of transformation and in the following year. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 147, para. 1 is finally added in the year of transformation and in the following year. 12. Article 208 is amended as follows: Liberation from taxation of social costs of contributions and premiums for supplementary social security and life insurance Art. 208. Social expenses under art. are not subject to taxation. 204, para. 1, t. 2 letter (s) up to BGN 60 monthly for each employee where, at the end of the month in which the costs are charged, the taxable person does not have public obligations to be enforced. For the purposes of the preceding sentence, there are no obligations where, at the end of the month in which the expenditure is charged, the liabilities are not reflected in the tax-insurance account or are not reflected as being enforced in the National Revenue Agency. 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by (a) in the text before t. 1 the number (b) t. 2 is amended as follows: "2." at the end of the month in which the cost of vouchers is charged, the taxable person does not have public obligations to be enforced. For the purposes of the preceding sentence, there are no obligations where, at the end of the month in which the expenditure is charged, the liabilities are not reflected in the tax-insurance account or are not reflected as being enforced in the National Revenue Agency. 14. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 217, para. 2 the words "up to 31 March" shall be replaced by "up to 30 June." 15. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 218a, para. 3 all over the words "March 31st" shall be replaced by "June 30th." 16. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 219, para. 5 the words "up to 31 March" shall be replaced by "from 1 March to 30 June." 17. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 245 is created. 5. (5) Paragraph 4 shall not apply in the cases of suspension of the activity in the execution of an administrative act issued in accordance with Section 5 of Chapter 2 of the Health Act. In these cases, the tax under para. 1, t. 1 " 3" is due in proportion to the days of the quarter during which the activity was not stopped. 18. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 252, para. 1 the words "up to 31 March" shall be replaced by "from 1 March to 30 June." 19. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 253 the words "up to 31 March" shall be replaced by "up to 30 June." 20. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 259, para. 2 the words "up to 31 March" shall be replaced by "from 1 March to 30 June." 21. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 260 words by March 31 are replaced by June 30 by March 31. 22. In § 1, t. 21 of the additional provisions shall be established under point (e): (e) with shares carried out on the market of a third country which is considered equivalent to a regulated market and for which the European Commission has adopted a decision on the equivalence of the legal and supervisory arrangements of the third country in accordance with Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on markets in financial instruments and amending Directive 2002/92/EC and Directive 2011/61/EU (OB, L 173/349 of 12 June 2014) .?.......................................................................................................... 23. In the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Corporate Income Tax (SG. ...), in § 55, t. 4 the words "June 30' shall be replaced by "September 30' and "September 30' shall be replaced by "September 30'.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u251	We are going to debate. First statement by Mr. Hristian Mitev come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u252	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, I will base our proposal on this paragraph. The tax relief for vouchers for food of BGN 60. is fixed in the Bulgarian legislation more than 10 years ago - 2009 when this amount represented a significant part of the minimum wage, namely 25%. From a macroeconomic point of view, wage increases, productivity has led to the impairment of the monthly non-taxable value of food vouchers from the establishment of the system to less than 10% of the minimum wage at this time. Food vouchers are one of the most appropriate incentives for employers and their employees, as they reduce their tax costs, while increasing the motivation and productivity of employees and, accordingly, the consumption of workers in times of crisis, as they increase their purchasing power. Vouchers are guaranteed to increase consumption as they cannot serve to save. That is why we propose an increase in the tax relief of the nominal non-taxable value of food vouchers under art. 209 from 60 to 100 leva. We believe that this measure will help employers who have a financial opportunity and a desire to stimulate their employees in this difficult period, without excessive burden on the budget of the companies concerned. It is important to note that the theoretical short-term budget losses in the form of a tax relief from an increase in the nominal value of food vouchers will be compensated in the medium and long term by the numerous benefits of the voucher system At this time of economic crisis caused by the pandemic, this can also be seen as an anti-crisis measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u253	Thank you for your very convincing statement, Mr. Mitev. Are there any lines? I can't see. The next statement is from Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u254	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! With our proposal...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u255	Mr. Gokov, before you place your card, you have no right to speak. You always steal five seconds somewhere.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u256	Well, that's the trick.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u257	Once, twice, but he's already made an impression.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u258	With our proposal in § 69 of the previous and final provisions of the Law, which we are looking at, we are making changes to the Law on Corporate Income Tax, and it somehow coincides with the proposals of our fellow Members from "United Patriarchs" only that ours is consistent, long time. In essence, the proposal is not to tax the social costs provided in the form of food vouchers for each employee up to 100 BGN. monthly and not as it is now up to BGN 60 monthly. That is, a worker or employee will be able to take the employer to give him food vouchers worth up to 100 BGN. a month. Food vouchers are a social asset and have special tax status. As an opportunity they have been regulated by the Corporate Income Tax Act since 2003, but until the end of 2006, they seem to have found no widespread application in the social policy of businesses because of some discrepancies in the legislation. Some changes in the legislation in the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Income Tax Act of individuals in 2007 make the purchase and provision of food vouchers a common element of the social policy of enterprises. Today food vouchers are the most preferred and used method by companies in Bulgaria to provide additional monthly income for their employees and an essential part of their social policy. They are an instrument of motivation and retention of staff, and in times of crisis they are a kind of mechanism for supporting and supporting employees. The 2020 budget has frozen the total annual quota for the provision of food vouchers under art. No. 209, para. 7 of the Corporate Income Tax Act of 320 million, i.e. at the 2019 levels, and this was done without motives. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u259	Colleagues, I ask for silence and respect for the speaker.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u260	Because the reason that these funds are sufficient without taking into account the needs of vouchers users, although there is a natural market growth of consumption every year, is untenable. Among the indisputable benefits of the voucher system are: increase in incomes and purchasing power of households; entry of fresh money in the Bulgarian economy; increase in VAT revenues in the state budget and decrease in the negative effect of the gray economy in Bulgaria. The proposal of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria and a subsequent increase in the total annual quota for providing food vouchers in the state budget will be entirely for the benefit of employees and will be supported by the trade unions and employers. For the finance minister, unfortunately, I don't know. I therefore expect support for the proposal and from all the parliamentary groups, all the more so that Members of the majority, part of the majority, have also such a proposal. And I call on you, let's do something good for these hardworking workers and employees who fill the budget with their work, as long as you've only taken away their labour rights. If you wish, let us introduce a mechanism for the number in art. No. 209, para. 1 which determines the monthly amount of vouchers that can be provided related to the minimum wage, for example 15% of it. Thus, the amount paid monthly for vouchers to a worker will automatically increase without the express will of the legislator. Support the proposal, even though colleagues from GERB hear the social policy, sharpen their ears, straighten their hair and vote against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u261	Mr. Gokov, please respect your colleagues no matter what political power they come from. Speak in essence who sharpened the ears, this is not the place to comment.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u262	Well, I look like they sharpened their ears, and now you're gonna see...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u263	Please! I'm doing everything I can to get you a normal line of speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u264	Now you'll see that...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u265	Now you're forcing me to take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u266	Okay. All I'm saying is the last sentence within the time it is due to me, you will now see in the vote that there are pointed ears, straightened hair and will be voted against. [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u267	I missed the button again next time I'll stop you. Are there any lines? I don't see anyone who wants to. Next statement Mr. Tishev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u268	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We are presently present at something that rarely happens in the National Assembly, namely a proposal from the BSP to coincide with a proposal from the "United Patriarchs" or NFSB. It is interesting that my colleague Mitev took an attitude from the United Patriarchs. BSP will have joint statements on this paragraph. For a long time, apart from the colleague from the Budget Commission, who reads the report, there is not a single statement from GERB. Are they not relevant to the amendments to the VAT Act and other tax laws? Shall we hear their opinion? Because they usually reject our proposals, or at least vote against, and if we raise a majority, maybe they will be accepted. So we look forward, so to say, to get someone from GERB to stand up and defend their proposal, to express a reverse thesis to the one we bet. Now, a few more arguments in favour of the proposal that we have made under § 69. What we are proposing is a social measure. Because, although it concerns all workers, it is mainly about employees with lower incomes, as managers, employers, managers or other specialists who receive 5-digit salaries, it is not so determining whether they will receive food vouchers worth 3 BGN. per day or 4.50, as we suggest, as 100 BGN. are non-compulsible, if divided into 22 working days, you get 4.50. But for a worker who gets 1,000 leva. gross salary, which is about 800 net, these 100 leva. appear 12.5% in practice increase in its income. And in this way, we, first of all, are helping businesses by releasing them on this amount of corporate tax, helping the worker, as we increase his purchasing power. [[Noise and lines.]] And in the end...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u269	Colleagues, I ask for silence and respect for the speaker!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u270	After all, the impact on the fissure is negligible, as the worker has 4 BGN. a month's less collected corporate tax. And another thing that my colleague Mitev said was so, for 10 or 11 years this non-taxable minimum of 60 BGN. it hasn't been changed. If then the minimum wage was 240 BGN, it is currently planned for 2021 to become 650 BGN, i.e. for those 11 years this is an increase of 170%. We suggest that these food vouchers be increased by only 66%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u271	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. Are there any lines to the statement of the MP Tishev? I can't see. Mr. Prodanov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u272	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In the last four years consecutively each of the years on the topic BSP vouchers offers the following two main things: firstly, increase their value and, secondly, except for food they apply for rest. The first stubborn three years in a row you rejected it. Now you've obviously matured that really their value must be lifted. We recommend that you support our proposal because 100 BGN. It's really money that's gonna make more sense. Relevant to the minimum wage in 2009 and now this will be fairer as a value. The second, which is mainly in our proposal, that these vouchers also apply for rest. Thus, honourable Members, we allow Bulgarian workers to make a choice whether to spend these food vouchers in the grocery store or to collect vouchers and once or twice a year to organize a holiday for their families. In fact, in 12 months a four-member family with two working families collects an amount equal to about BGN 2500. With that £2,500. Many hoteliers say they can make extremely good 10-day packages for four-member families. In this way we offer the opportunity for Bulgarian citizens to stay and rest on the Bulgarian mountain, on the Bulgarian sea for the simple reason that using these vouchers, after they do not apply in neighbouring Greece, Turkey and so on, they would prefer to stay on the Bulgarian Black Sea. You don't see that as another year. However, I think that you will also mature because there are quite a lot of serious voices about these proposals from our hotelier business. This year, when we fell into the COVID-19 crisis, naturally, the most seriously hit sector was the tourism sector. You were making various proposals that turned out to be extremely ineffective: firstly, the measure 60/40 became 80/20.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u273	How is it not working?!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u274	Extremely little absorption has this measure and it is a measure to maintain employment. People who do this business prefer the state to help them with attracting customers, making speed, and from there they start making their money, making their profits so that they can...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u275	Mr. Prodanov, I'm very sorry to interrupt you, but what text are you talking about right now because there is no such text?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u276	I was just explaining what our...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u277	One second, let me finish. You have a text that is linked to the food vouchers. There are no such texts in this article that we are discussing. And the second vote, the second debate is actually a section by section, chapter by chapter, text by text.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u278	That's right, and that's why...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u279	You're talking about something else.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u280	And that is why I am explaining the essence of our request why the value of the voucher should be 100 leva. and why it should also apply to food for rest.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u281	But you don't have that kind of offer. Your offer is only for food.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u282	If you have listened to me a little more carefully, Mr. Simeonov, I have said that in the last four years we have proposed this consistently every year.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u283	And you, if you heard me, we're in the second vote, we're discussing text by text. There is no such text, so I had to take your word for it. [[Noise and lines.]] Well, that's true. Are there lines? [[Heckling]] I understand, but when we have a second vote, we speak text on the substance of the law, we don't speak in general. Four years we wanted to do something, but we didn't do it. Well, we've wanted a lot of things too, but should we be doing this now?! [[Radio.]] Are there any lines to the speech of the MP Prodanov? I can't see. Next statement, Alexander Ivanov? No, you're quitting. Will there be any other comments on this text? If there are no speeches, let's move on to the vote. Have all the MPs, all the political groups called on each other? [[Noise, excitement.]] Let's move on to the vote. First, I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. No. 209, para. 1 number 60 to be replaced by 100. Wait a minute, wait a minute. I haven't found the vote. Let's unite him with yours. [[(Replys:]] Separate! By some coincidence, your offer is the same. I feel like you cheated on him from us. [[Laughter and excitement.]] Voting regime for the proposal of the MP Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. If there are owners of companies who use vouchers, I remind them that they are not allowed to vote. They voted 137 MPs: 56 against 1, abstention 80. Unfortunately, the offer is not accepted. We proceed to the next proposal of the MPs Christian Vigenin and a group of MPs, which is:...................................................................... No. 209, para. 1 the number 60 is replaced by 100. They voted 144 MPs: 62, Against 55, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. We continue with the third proposal of the MPs Adlen Shevked and Sergey Kichikov. Vote 138 MPs: 13, against 67, abstention 58. And now I am voting on the Commission's version of § 69 by importer, which becomes § 72. They voted 142 MPs: 95, against 10, abstention 37. The motion is accepted. Paragraph 69 with the new numbering is adopted. Mr. Prodanov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u284	Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is to guide you. I would like to call on you to behave a little more politely and respectfully to the colleagues in the Chamber and to the colleagues who speak from the stand and to remind you that you are in the National Assembly and not the market. [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]] You cannot interrupt each and every one of the vocal MPs from the opposition and comment on your thoughts and your passions from the stands. What do you say when we vote on the proposal of the United Patriarchs and of the BSP: to unite them, but you must have copied the proposals of the BSP! No, you have rather copied BSP's proposals because in my speech, if you hadn't stopped me or listened to me carefully, you would understand that BSP has been offering this in the last four years, while you are now offering it and offering it under the pressure of the Bulgarian Industrial Association. And what you read in your speech, Mr. Mitev, is one to one with commas and points in the opinion of the employers' organization. So I urge you to be a little more correct and respectful to your colleagues. [[Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria...........................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u285	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. So if I say you cheated, that's illegal, but if you say it, it's allowed, is it? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'm entitled to two minutes, please! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You said it. Besides, if I'd known you'd take my remark so painfully that you weren't talking about it, I might have held back, but I couldn't. The rules oblige me, do you understand? It is good to talk to your fellow countrymen, fellow party members of your parliamentary group, also to be more disciplined and to treat other colleagues with respect, because the sharpening of ears is not characteristic of people, but is characteristic of some animals. Thank you. We are continuing with the Commission Report. We have reached § 70 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u286	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 70, which shall become § 73. Under § 71, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 71, which shall become § 74 and shall propose the following wording: ................ 74.................................................................. The tax relief under art. 184 of the Corporate Income Tax Act, representing State aid for regional development under art. 189 of the Corporate Income Tax Act can be used until 31 December 2021, including for corporation tax for 2021, following a decision by the European Commission to extend the duration of the Scheme SA.39869 (2014/N), Bulgaria, Corporate Tax Exemption Scheme under Art. 184 of the Corporate Income Tax Act. The suspension of advance contributions to corporate tax shall not be allowed until the date of the European Commission's decision, provided that the same is after 31 December 2020. Under § 72, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 72, which shall become § 75 and shall propose the following wording: ................................................................................... (1) The deferred tax for 2019 and 2020 in relation to art. 189b, para. 2, p. 1 of the Law on Corporate Income Tax is invested in new buildings and new agricultural equipment needed to carry out the one referred to in art. 189b, para. 1 of the Law on Corporate Income Tax Activity, by the end of the second year following the year for which the assignment is enjoyed. (2) Paragraph 1 shall apply after receipt of a receipt with the European Commission's aid identification number to change the terms of the scheme.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Under § 73, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 73, which shall become § 76 and shall propose the following wording: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Paragraph 72, t. 8, 9, 14.. 16, 18.. 21........................................................................................ 92, para. Art. 2, Art. Art. 93, Art. 93 217, para. Art. 2, Art. 218a, para. Art. 3, Art. 219, para. Art. 5, art. 252, para. Art. 1, art. Art. 253, Art. 259, para. Art. 2, Art. 260 of the Corporate Income Tax Act also applies to the annual tax return, the annual activity report and the corresponding taxes for 2020. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 74, which shall become § 77. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 75, which becomes § 78, and the words "Paragraph 69" are replaced by "Paragraph 72." Under § 76, there is a proposal of the MP Krasimir Yankov and a group of MPs: In the transitional and final provisions, the following amendments and additions shall be made to Paragraph 76: 1. A t is created. 1a: 1a. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 22b: Art. 22b (1) Natural persons may benefit from tax relief for their income in the event that they do not exceed the minimum wage when both the following conditions are met: 1. the person has acquired during the year only income under art. 10, para. 1, t. 1; 2. the income acquired during the year by item. 1 shall not exceed 12 months of minimum wages for the year concerned. (2) In income under para. 1, t. 2 shall not include additional monthly wage for acquired service and professional experience for the year concerned. (3) The tax relief under para. 1 is the amount of the income tax payable under para. 1, t. 2, except for income under para. 2 acquired during the year. (4) The persons may benefit from the tax relief under para. 1, whether or not they meet the conditions of art. 23, para. 2. (5) The circumstances and conditions under para. 1 shall be declared by the person in the annual tax return under art. 50. (6) Under income in para. 1 shall be considered only as such within the meaning of Article 1. 25 of the law. These incomes shall not include non-taxable income under art. 13 of the law, as well as any additional revenue for natural persons such as interest and/or damages and penalties resulting from late payments or arising from the method of payment. (7) The amounts of tax relief shall be reimbursed to the taxable person by the end of May of the year in which they are declared or deducted from other of his tax obligations. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 the created art. 22f is amended as follows: A monthly relief to the poverty line Art. 22. (1) Natural persons may benefit from a tax relief equivalent to the monthly amount of the poverty line for the country, determined annually by a decision of the Council of Ministers in the event that persons receive a monthly income of BGN 651. up to BGN 2000 and at the same time there are the following conditions: 1. The person has acquired during the year only income under art. 10, para. 1, t. 1; 2. The income acquired during the year by t.1 does not exceed BGN 24 000.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 3. The person has not used tax relief under art. 22b for the year concerned. (2) When determining the tax base, in the income under para. 1 shall not include additional monthly wage for acquired service and professional experience for the year concerned. (3) The tax relief shall amount to 10 percent of the amount of the country's poverty line for the whole year. (4) The persons may benefit from the tax relief under para. 1, whether or not they meet the conditions of art. 23, para. 2. (5) The circumstances and conditions under para. 1 shall be declared by the person in the annual tax return under art. 50. (6) The amounts of tax relief shall be reimbursed to the taxable person by the end of May of the year in which they are declared or deducted from other of his tax obligations. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Christian Vigenin and a group of MPs: "1." A t is created. 1a: 1a. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13, para. 1 is created t. 30: 30. Income from employment of persons not over 26 years of age. 2. A t is created. 1b: 1b. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22c the following amendments and additions are made: (a) in para. 1 the colon after the words. The text shall be deleted by the end of the subparagraph and replaced by BGN 6000. for any minor child; (b) the creation of para. 10: The monthly tax base referred to in Article 10 (10) 42, para. 2 for employment benefits of beneficiaries of child tax relief is reduced by 500 BGN. for each child................ for every child............................. 3. A t is created. 2a: It's 2a. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 42 the following amendments and additions are made: (a) in para. 3 is created t. 3: "3." the tax relief for children under art. 22c, para. 10; (d) (b) para. 4 is amended as follows: 4 (4) The amount of tax due shall be determined on the monthly tax base under para. 3 according to the following table, which has been applied. 4. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 in relation to the amendments to art. 43, a letter is created in the form of a letter (s): .) in para. 3 words multiplied by tax rate 10 per cent shall be replaced by a wager according to the table referred to in art. 48, para. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (ii) (i) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) 5. A t is created. 3a: 3a. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 44 the following amendments shall be made: (a) para. 3 is amended as follows: . (3) The amount of the tax due shall be calculated as the difference under para. 1 shall bet according to the table referred to in Article 1. 48, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. (b) in para. The fourth sentence, second sentence, shall be added to the tax rate of 10 per cent and shall be replaced by a bet according to the table referred to in art. 48, para. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (ii) (i) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) 6. A t is created. 3b: "3b." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 44a, para. The second sentence of the sentence shall be multiplied by the tax rate of 10 per cent and shall be replaced by a bet according to the table referred to in art. 48, para. 1.................................................................................. 7. A t is created. 3c: "3c." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 46 the following amendments shall be made: (a) para. 1 is amended as follows: (1) The rate of income tax under art. Art. 37 and Art. 38, para. 1, 5, 10, 12, 14 and 15 is according to the table under art. 48, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. (b) in para. 2 the number "s' is replaced by "seven' and, at the end of the sentence, after the word "years', a comma shall be placed and added to "seven' as well as for the incomes under art. 38, para. 11 and 13 (c) para. 3 and 4 are cancelled. 8. A t is created. 4a: 4a. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 48 the following amendments and additions are made: (a) para. 1 is amended as follows: . (1) The amount of tax on the annual tax base for income from business, for income from rent or other retribution for the use of rights or property, income from other sources under art. 35 as well as on the common annual tax base under art. 17 shall be determined according to the following table, which is applied in the Report. (b) the creation of para. 9.. 11: In determining the amount of tax on the total annual tax base for non-prepaid income from employment benefits, art. 42, para. 3. (10) If the person has not received benefits from employment relationships, his other income included in the total annual tax base shall be reduced before taxation by 6000 BGN for each minor, if the debtor has children and is not deprived of parental rights. The reduction shall be declared and used by one parent of choice. (11) The tax paid for the tax year may be deducted from subsequent advances and annual contributions to that tax due by a sole trader. Where it is established that the sole trader without justification deducts tax, interest under the Law on Interests on Taxes, Fees and Other Similar Government Claims shall be due for the non-payments and annual contributions. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 76, which shall become § 79.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u287	Are there any speeches? Mrs. Ninova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u288	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Our proposals are for a serious change in tax and social policy in Bulgaria. Undoubtedly, in the debate on flat or progressive tax, there is an ideological dispute - left or right policy? We have had a political dispute for years GERB BSP, because for the fourth time in this term we submit these proposals and always argue with you politically. This issue, apart from ideological and political, is primarily state-owned if we look at it through the big issue of inequalities and poverty. Inequality and poverty are a scourge for every government, regardless of which party it is from. Bulgaria comes first in inequality in the European Union. The final statement of the International Monetary Fund after its regular mission in Bulgaria this year recommended the fight against inequality as one of the main problems for Bulgaria. The COVID-19 crisis and the subsequent economic and social crisis will deepen inequalities and poverty. In his report of this year, the World Bank noted: The pandemic made the poor even poorer. What about inequalities and poverty in Bulgaria and can it also be solved through tax and social policy? This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, repair and maintenance of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, repair and maintenance of equipment and equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, repair and maintenance of equipment and Impressive is the report of BNB from last week, honourable colleagues and Bulgarians, which shows how the crisis of inequality, income and poverty in Bulgaria affects. BNB may be one of the most serious sources in Bulgaria, says that since March, when the pandemic started, 146 accounts of over 1 million have appeared in banks. lv. The conclusion is that in a pandemic Bulgaria produces 24 millionaires per month. In 2018, they were 98, in 2019 were 900 and now, until September, were 1070 "BNB Report." At the same time, the smallest deposits up to 1000 BGN, which are mass, of the Bulgarian people, are permanently reduced according to the conclusion of BNB. Averages up to 5 thousand. BGN, slowing down, but constantly. The explanation of the bankers and economists is that because of their declining incomes people help themselves with saved money.. poor people who have saved this money for a rainy day. Their conclusion is that small deposits are decreasing and the largest are growing nearly 3 times the average, and is a signal of growing inequality in incomes in Bulgaria. That is why from the BSP for Bulgaria and we propose one way to start overcoming this inequality and poverty to go through tax and social policy. We propose the cancellation of flat tax and the introduction of a progressive tax on personal incomes, the corporate tax should not be touched; apart from progressive taxation, we propose the release of young, working people up to 26 years of income tax on individuals, that is, those young people up to 26 years of age should be released from paying. These are 614 613 people; we offer family income tax, which means that for each working family whose parents in the family have contributed their insurance in the last 12 months, they will have 500 BGN. an unalterable minimum for each child, and so the families will remain more available income. This concerns, honourable Bulgarians, 1 million 250 thousand children. We offer free medicines for children up to 14 years of age. This is 1 million 20,000 children. The dispute we had a moment ago about vouchers with which we also propose to help workers is for 2 million 312,600 people working. Further in the budget of the NSI we will talk about the pensioners, but now it is not in this law. What we offer will cost the state 1 billion. Seven hundred million. lv. Do you know how much average annual spends single-handedly from the window of the Jeep Boyko Borisov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u289	Mrs. Ninova, please finish your thought.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u290	Between two and three billion a year outside the budget without purpose, without priorities, only for political dividend and for personal survival.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u291	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u292	Guys, don't lie to yourself! With our money, they buy personal survival.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u293	Please, Mrs. Ninova, don't abuse me. Don't abuse me, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u294	That is, the choice today is the personal power of one person or the care for nearly 5 million Bulgarians.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u295	Are you going to graduate? [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] I wouldn't want to take your word for it, Mrs. Ninova!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u296	We offer the second care for the people. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] If you're state... [[The President turns off the microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u297	Mrs. Ninova, please don't abuse this. Thank you. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u298	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Ninova! We cannot support proposals for progressive income taxation, because there is no fixed minimum to make over 50 000 high income workers at a high tax rate. You're forgetting minimum-income workers who are over 1 million people. Secondly, BSP's proposal has nothing to do with income tax, but is put into practice a tax preference and does not change the way tax base is formed, which is the main thing in income taxation. Thirdly, the biggest misunderstanding in the proposals is the introduction of different approaches and rates for taxation of income from one source. Recipients of different legal forms, i.e. who have income from rents, will be taxed with a progressive tax rate, and if it is a firm with a flat 10% tax. In the same case, farmers also fall. This is an imitation of income tax, not a real will to justice in income policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u299	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Second line? I can't see. Hole, Mrs. Ninova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u300	We would have accepted this criticism and arguments if they were made by political opponents by GERB or other parties, but not by people who last year at that time had signed such proposals as members of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria and today are contesting their own signatures and texts. [[Noise and lines.]] I repeat, the fourth year consecutively and pleaded BSP for Bulgaria.................................................................................... we are submitting these proposals. We will continue to do so as opposition, but we will really implement it as a policy and will become a fact when the Bulgarian people give us confidence to rule Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u301	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. [[National Representative Lalo Kirilov wants the floor.]] In the manner of conduct, Mr. Kirilov? You have the word in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u302	Mr. Vice-President, I would ask you, as the host of the meeting, to interrupt when they speak untruths, because both last and last year as a member of the BSP parliamentary group, I have never signed this proposal, as there are currently people from the Budget Committee, members of the BSP, who have also not signed this proposal. So please interrupt every time you try to manipulate. [[Private applause and cheering by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u303	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u304	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Our proposals under § 76 are in the direct interest of about 2 million Bulgarian citizens who receive income insufficient for normal maintenance of their families. These fellow citizens of ours are working poor and last year they increased by about 200,000. Moreover, the members of their families are about 3 million, living with income around the poverty threshold or below the amount of normal maintenance of a family member, which according to statistics is about 620 BGN. Our proposals are a breath of air for them and will provide them with tax benefits, which for a family with incomes per month about 1500 BGN, such as the mass case, if both parents work, will provide them with an additional 1000 BGN. Annually. Under the conditions of a pandemic and the risk of a reduction or loss of income in half economic measures by the government and deepening poverty, the state is obliged to support the majority of the working Bulgarians. It will not be enough, we are aware of that, but it is a serious step and fair support. I call on you to support this proposal of ours.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u305	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Mrs. Lecheva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u306	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I see a serious excitement to the right and a lot of smiles, but what we are discussing today is extremely worrying and I will continue the negative trends and rankings that lead Bulgaria to the European Union, and I will continue them, unfortunately. We still hold first positions in all these last ten years in terms of low birth rates and high mortality. I will issue some data that you have seriously avoided in recent years, seeing your policy and your actions when it comes to discussing serious problems. What the National Statistical Institute said regarding birth rates in 2010. The year your management started. Seventy-five thousand newborns in 2019 61,000 children. You can't deny that the birth rate is related to the attitude and policy that you are leading. It also connects to the budget, and part of the budget is, of course, the tax laws that you apply. Unfortunately, the demographic processes have eluded you in recent years. Today, experts say that this is not a demographic crisis, but a demographic collapse. Complex measures are needed related to support for responsible parenting, with support for young people, with support for the care and conditions under which children are raised in Bulgaria. That is why every year, through the alternative budget, we propose measures that concern the relief for young families in raising children. Today, every young family feels uncertain and these are conclusions that present the Annual Youth Report, which we were looking at just two weeks ago in the Commission, which you have drawn...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u307	Mrs. Lecheva, I'm gonna have to ask you to get into this. You're drifting significantly.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u308	Yeah, I'll get to the subject again. She's connected, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u309	They're connected, but I'm asking you to speak specifically on this subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u310	The policy for children and young people is also related to the tax laws we offer... [[Reply from the National Representative Hristo Prodanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u311	Don't shout, Mr. Prodanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u312	...for the relief of young families in raising children.. an extremely important policy which, I say, in recent years you have eluded you because you are freezing social payments. We believe that this proposal of ours, linked to the support of young families who have been part of the social security system in the past two years, is extremely important. Ladies and gentlemen, there is another serious percentage, which is worrying and less and less highly educated working mothers give life to children in Bulgaria. Therefore, a policy is needed to support young families through tax relief. I think this time because I hear that the patriots had such a proposal, we may also hear their voice in support of our proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u313	Thank you. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Mr. Gokov, come in. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u314	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In practice, § 78 presents the majority's vision of income taxes on individuals or, more precisely, the lack of adequate vision for these taxes, not only in terms of mass poverty and inhuman inequalities, not only in the context of a demographic disaster, but also in the context of serious problems, health, social, economic, caused by coronacrisis. I will not comment on the proposals of the Member in this case the Council of Ministers. I'll talk about some of BSP's proposals. I do not know what the reasons of the majority in the Committee on Budget and Finance are not to support the proposals of the BSP, which I am an importer of, but I suppose they have hardly seen into them. Rather, the only motive for rejecting them is that they were made by the opposition. And we propose: the abolition of flat tax and the introduction of progressive taxation with elements of family income tax. Yeah, that's what it's called, and there's even a progression chart that didn't see it, it's on him. And yes, throughout Europe it is so with progressive taxation. Progressive taxation, which in no way harms workers with incomes up to 6,000. lv. This is our proposal. On the contrary, their income taxes, which they will have to pay, will be lower than those who pay so far under the flat tax rules. We also offer more simple and pragmatic things that reflect our policies on family income taxation. We propose that the income from employment relations of the Bulgarians, who are not 26 years old, should be non-taxable, that is, not to pay taxes for them, to give a strong start to young people in their careers and to save them for the Bulgarian labour market, to give them a motive to stay in Bulgaria. We propose that local natural persons and foreign persons established for tax purposes in a Member State of the European Union, or in another Member State of the European Economic Area Agreement, benefit from tax relief for children by deducting from the sum of the total annual tax base 6 thousand. lv. for every minor child. We propose that the monthly tax base for employment benefits for those who benefit from tax relief should be reduced for each child by BGN 500. This means that if a parent works on a minimum wage and receives an annual income of 7,000. 800 BGN, and must pay annual tax total income of 780 BGN. And there's a child, he'll pay a tax on only 1,800 BGN, that is, 180 BGN. This basically means that for every Bulgarian child his working parent will receive 50 BGN. monthly, for two children 100 leva. monthly, for three children 150, for four of 200 leva. And so on. That's BGN 600, respectively. for one child, 1200 for two persons, 1800 for three children, 2400 for four children a year. In other words, there will be support for every Bulgarian child of a working parent. And all this without parents lining up in humiliating social services queues and filing humiliating applications or applications and the like. And the rest who do not work but have children will continue to be supported by the state under the Family Aids Act for children through the social system according to budget options. Isn't that what the Bulgarian people want to support and support without discrimination all Bulgarian children, regardless of income and other conditions? The only condition is to work and pay income tax. Isn't that what a part of the majority wants in the face of the United Patriarchs? Support our offer to make it real! Abstrate that it has been proposed by the opposition, because it is much better than what you are proposing, even with an increased income criterion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u315	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u316	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As always, my speech is built only on facts and European practices. The Bulgarian Socialist Party is proposing a transition to a European way of taxing personal incomes, namely progressive taxation. The rocks of the leading European countries and the crushing majority, including developed countries such as Japan and the United States, are between four- and seven-step rocks. In Europe, five-stage rocks, four-and-five-grade are dominated by Japan, the United States and other developed countries. Dear colleagues, for all Bulgarian citizens, we offer up to 3900 BGN. monthly or 46 800 leva. Our scheme does not change the tax of 10% in any way. We raise the income tax to 15% between BGN 3900. And 90 grand. lv. From 6000 to... Sorry, 9-071. From six thousand to nine thousand leva the tax is 20%, over 9000 are subject to 25%. That is, we are proposing a tax scheme and a structure that fully corresponds to European approaches. Moreover, our progressive tax system is more moderate than the European system, as we would like to move towards progressive taxation in a gradual scheme that does not cause stress in the system. Secondly, honourable Members, here are the tax rates compared to the Bulgarian one, where the maximum is 25% for the amounts above BGN 9000. monthly. In France, up to approximately 6000 euros, the 0% tax. From 6 thousand to 12 thousand, approximately 5.5. 14%, 30%, 49.5% for the richest French. Dear colleagues, progressive taxation and marginal tax in Sweden is 57.20%, in Finland So there is no developed European or non-European country, honourable Members, such are the facts that are not progressive taxation. In conclusion, honourable Members, each time we invite you to make a choice whether to go to France, Germany, Spain, Italy, Portugal, Austria, Finland and Denmark or to stay in the groups of Turkmenistan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Mongolia? The choice is yours! Have a nice day. [[Noise and lines from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u317	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Are there lines? I can't see. Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u318	Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I listened with interest to the speeches of my fellow Members on the left, so I am going out to this stand to state the following. GERB is the political party she has promised, ensuring that it will not raise the taxes of Bulgarian citizens. I absolutely declare it! This is announced in our election program and in our management agreement for a four-year full term. You can offer as much as you want to raise taxes on employees and businesses, but we won't. GERB will not raise the taxes of the working Bulgarian citizens and of the business! GERB will retain the lowest taxes in Europe.. 10% corporate tax and 10% income tax for individuals, and this is guaranteed by us. You report to elections with this slogan, tell the Bulgarian citizens that you will raise their taxes. Maybe if you're elected then pick them up and manage them. Once again, we stress the financial stability of the Bulgarian state, which, under the management of GERB and "United Patriarchs" we entered the club of the rich in the waiting room of the Eurozone. Colleagues, this is consistent, financial, political stability that the country has had and has been reflected and recognised by our European partners. We were also accepted in the Banking Union - due to the stability of the banking system of GERB. [[People's representatives are talking to each other.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u319	Colleagues, I already have to verbally ask for silence!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u320	In conclusion, colleagues, I would like to emphasise once again the slogans of this tribune you can do as much as you want, but tell me what that means. You are urging to raise the taxes of the working Bulgarian citizens and of the business. We at GERB ensure that such raising of taxes on our management in this mandate will not be possible. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u321	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? The line, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u322	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleague Ivanov, first of all, nowhere in our proposal is there a change in the tax on companies. Nowhere and never in the past years has the tax remained categorically 10%, because not only this, we have repeatedly offered to increase budget spending through public-private partnership, to help small and medium-sized businesses, which is the backbone of the economy. So nowhere and never have we proposed a change in this tax. Secondly, honourable colleague Ivanov, there is nowhere to talk about an increase in the taxes of the Bulgarians. Bulgarians who receive BGN 3900 monthly will pay the same tax. The very rich Bulgarians, like the rich French, the rich Germans, the rich Americans, will pay a higher tax. The alternative, honourable Members, is the two options, or we remain with 20 unemployed ambulances and there are no ambulances and people die in the stairwells, or we have equipped ambulances, such as Austria, Finland and Sweden [[GERB noise and lines]] Where rich Swedes, Americans and French pay higher taxes, they have a health care system, they have ambulances that are equipped. Because the other alternative is if you said you wouldn't change taxes. Well, then what about the debt? It becomes 40 billion. lv. After three years?! So either the debt will grow, or we will make the very rich Bulgarians pay as much as the rich Germans, Finns and Swedes. Have a nice day.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u323	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Second line, Mr. Prodanov wanted... [[People's representative Dragomir Stoinev wants the floor]] Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u324	...finalists like you...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u325	I don't have your brain.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u326	Have a nice day. Have a nice day. Good night.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u327	You're still an associate professor. You're still young. [[Relations from the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u328	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, Bulgaria does not have financial stability due to taxes and we are not a member of the waiting room of the euro area. One has nothing to do with the other, so don't let the room down first. Secondly, Kristalina Georgieva herself talked about progressive tax, because growth sustainability should be sought. Misunderstood problem leads to wrong policy! With us, the main problem is the non-ra-ven-as. The only way to combat inequalities is to change the tax insurance model and this is stated not only by the President of the International Monetary Fund, but also by your financial guru Simeon Djankov, who clearly stated that this model can no longer be the same. In politics, as in the economy, as in the world, there is evolution, and you must understand it, because what we propose is this. Out of 2 million and 300,000 people who pay income tax on individuals, this will only affect 125,000 people. Because of these 125,000 people, you are de facto taxing those 2 million and 125 thousand people. The tax won't change to them. When it comes to more revenue, more justice, then this progressive tax is introduced. When Roosevelt introduced the progressive tax, they told him: "You, Mr. President, want to kill capitalism. " - He says: "No, I want to save him. " - Because there is no country that wants to have a destitute class. In order not to have a poor class, these people must have incomes to earn income, there must be justice. When there is a strong middle class, it consumes, it consumes, accordingly increases production, increases jobs and reduces inequality. It's a completely different concept. Yes, we had one thought in 2008, but that thinking evolved because the effect that it was...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u329	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u330	I'm finishing my last sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u331	Finish your thought.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u332	...has already been achieved. From now on, you have to think in a new way...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u333	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u334	...because as a Member State of the European Union...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u335	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u336	...we can't go on with such a primitive system. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u337	For the third line please, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u338	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a replica of the respected by me and by all of you, Mr. Alexander Ivanov, who said, contrary to the fact that no declarations should be made from the stands, made such a declaration that GERB will not raise taxes. But the respected Mr. Alexander Ivanov forgot to say that GERB enters into such a destructive economic spiral, that by not raising taxes, he vows to owe for generations of Bulgarians, spending unreasonable, without control and without looking into public resources. This is what Mr. Alexander Ivanov forgot to say at the expense of future generations. And with regard to what he put as a question that we have entered the Club of the Rich, I would like to invite him most frankly to our area, we will select some small villages, explain to them which club we entered with Mr. Ivanov for the Club of the Rich. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u339	Thank you. A hole, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u340	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members in this House and honourable replicators! Firstly, it is very nice to compare ourselves and to want to compare ourselves with developed Western countries and economies, but there, to take a brief account that 40-50 years have not been governed by the predecessor of the Bulgarian Socialist Party and were not in this order. First this. It's very important that we don't forget it and admit it. Secondly, I thank one of the replicators for saying that Bulgaria really has the lowest taxes in Europe, both individuals and companies and working businesses. Colleagues, I don't speak with slogans, I talk with facts. I'm talking to facts. GERB will not be the party that will raise the taxes of Bulgarian citizens and businesses. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And to stress again what stability we are talking about: no one can be rich because someone else works more than he does. On the contrary, we are consistent in this approach. Investing in infrastructure, investment in education, the return of 50 000 Bulgarian children to the education system will guarantee the work and income of Bulgarian citizens. The investments, guys! The investments that exactly... He who came to make investments in Bulgaria, what he looks at the tax system and calendar. And what predictability is there when the Socialists say they will win the elections and raise the taxes of Bulgarian citizens and businesses? Who should come to invest in Bulgaria? Unfortunately, that's not gonna happen. Therefore, fellow Members, once again, I call on you to support our proposal and not to support the slogans of fellow Members on the left. Thank you. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u341	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. A statement? Wait, there's one before you: Mr. Stoinev, Mr. Tishev... You want procedure, Mr. Prodanov? That's different.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u342	Dear Mr. Chairman! My procedure is with you in the manner of conduct and it is related to the previous procedure again to you in the manner of conduct, when my colleague, representative of the majority management, Lalo Kirilov, called you here, if they are speaking untruths from the stand, to interrupt the speakers and claiming that he did not sign under BSP's proposals for tax laws... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] In this regard, I would like to present you with a bill of amendment and supplement...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u343	Mr. Prodanov, turn to me! I don't know, I can't know who's gonna say what...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u344	That's why...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u345	And I can't make a reference during the speech of a Member of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u346	That's why, Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u347	I do not accept, please, your procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u348	...a reference and I'll leave it for your information.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u349	Okay, that's another question. Thank you. We're moving on. Mr. Ivanov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u350	Honourable President, honourable Members! We are witnessing some internal party struggles and so on, which is why I am doing a procedure to end the debates and vote on the text. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP, loud noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u351	Thank you. Who's going to disagree? Mr. Svilensky, you have the right to rule. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u352	Dear Mr. Chairman, back proposal in the manner of conduct. This isn't about an internal party understanding. You fellow Members have applauded your fellow partymate or... [[Applause from GERB.]] Right?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u353	No, no! Wait, that's a different opinion!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u354	And that had to be made clear. It should have been made clear, Mr. Chairman, that Mr. Lalo Kirov signed all the laws imported from BSP, not to applaud him and make him feel like a hero.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u355	Wait, this has nothing to do with...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u356	Now let's go back, which has something to do with it. My proposal is not to interrupt the debate, there are two or three paragraphs on which there are speeches on which the Bulgarians expect to hear an alternative, to hear what you suggest. The easiest thing to do is to end it. It's even easier to close the meeting. There are two or three speeches each five minutes, let's hear them out. [[(crowd cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, ……]] There'll probably be one or two lines. This benefits the media, Bulgarian citizens, society if you want parliament to work. If you don't want to, you know very well what happened in other years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u357	The most democratic thing is to put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u358	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u359	I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Mr. Ivanov. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'll give you the floor by procedure. Please, voting mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u360	I've been raising my hand for half an hour, there have been statements!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u361	We have a voting regime right now. [[Relations from MP Philip Popov aside from the microphones.]] You have the floor after that. I voted in, Mr. Popov. Vote 127 MPs: for 85, against 42, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Popov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u362	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Actually, I have two treatments. The first one is the way it's run. For ten minutes or more, as the debate lasted, I raised my hand for a counter-proposal procedure on this. I am doing this backwards because there are colleagues who are enrolled for speeches! It is unacceptable for him to put an end to the speeches, since colleagues have already been recorded on these important texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u363	Mr. Popov...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u364	You didn't do that thing. This is the procedure in the manner of conduct. My second procedure is to re-vote. Fellow Members, these are extremely important texts. There are several more speeches on these texts. Do not keep your mouth shut again or try not to silence the opposition! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] All Bulgarians are now looking at this National Assembly, looking at your cutter right now!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u365	Thank you, Mr. Popov. If you wanted a re-vote, you should have started with that. Secondly, the different opinion was expressed by Mr. Svilensky, and clearly enough. We will proceed with the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u366	No, in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u367	It's the way it's supposed to be. Okay, Mr. Stoinev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u368	There's a re-vote, there's no way to conduct it!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u369	What re-voting? The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u370	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chairman, I was on that list and you are denying me the right to express my opinion on a particular member. You have no right to deprive us of that right if there are two or three people left! I therefore ask you very much to continue the debate on this extremely important topic. I understand that the government does not understand it, but this is something key, important and sooner or later we will get to this problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u371	We're 37 people!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u372	It's good to talk about it now...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u373	Okay, I get it, Mr. Stoinev. That was for me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u374	...to argue, after all, that's why it's the stands! You have no right to take my right...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u375	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u376	...I'd like to express my opinion. Because as the MP, I express the will of those people who voted...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u377	Okay, I get it!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u378	...for my political power and for the ideas we confess! So I have to protect them and you have to give me the floor! [[Laughter, noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u379	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. I don't have to. I literally followed the rules!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u380	Well, why wouldn't it be like that?[Grunts]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u381	Mr. Stoynev, please! I literally followed the rules. [[Relations from MP Dragomir Stoynev away from the microphones.]] Let's go, guys!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u382	There are two people on tape!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u383	Mr. Stoynev, please! I literally followed the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u384	Two people in three minutes!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u385	Mr. Tishev, you? Procedure? Here's the procedure. Mr. Popov, Mr. Tishev before you proceed, after which I will give you the floor of procedure. [[Relations from MP Dragomir Stoynev away from the microphones.]] Mr. Stoynev, please go to your seat!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u386	There's a re-vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u387	What kind of re-election is there, sir? There's no such thing, Mister...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u388	Dear Mr. President, in the term of office of this National Assembly, even when this vicious practice has been used before to interrupt the debates, although the Rules say that every Member of the National Assembly has the right to speak on any paragraph within five minutes, but even when you used this vicious practice before, those who have signed up for a speech, and you have that list, it has been given the right to make speeches! I've also signed up for a speech, and I'd like to use the right that the Rules have given me. You can't change the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u389	I'm not changing the rules, Mr. Tishev! In the manner of conduct please, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u390	Mr. Chairman, in the manner in which you have conducted procedures for BSP colleagues, provided that our colleague Popov proposed a re-vote and we entered a re-vote procedure. You can't give procedures at a time when you have to reschedule. Then, if they want to, they'll tell each other in the way they want. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] But no one is obliged to explain how he is entitled to the word, provided that the Rules allow for an interruption of the debate when everything is said. And we can't hear all day about their internal disputes, Mr. Chairman, who's an independent socialist, who's an addicted socialist, who's a progressive socialist, who's a retrograde socialist, we don't care about that. We're talking about other things. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria, applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u391	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. You weren't paying attention, Mr. Popov. I explained why I wouldn't do a re-vote. Because the re-voting is required immediately, and he started with another topic. Mr. Popov, you have the floor. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u392	Dear Mr. Chairman, when you stand on this high platform, it is good to read the Rules, in particular Art. 61 of our Rules and keep it in which art. 61 is clearly written: "After the list of speakers has been exhausted or representatives of all parliamentary groups have spoken, the debates are announced to be closed. You have failed to comply with the Rules of Procedure, there are written in the speech list by our parliamentary group. Do not take away the right of the Members of the National Assembly to speak in absolute violation of the Rules of Procedure! And we're doing a re-voting procedure again. [[Replications from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u393	I've already explained the re-voting. And as for what you're talking about, Mr. Popov...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u394	I did two procedures.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u395	No. I would just like to say to you that there is another member who obliges me after a proposal has been made to put an end to the debate. I put it to a vote and it was adopted, which ended the debate. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Which ended the debate! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Prodanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u396	Dear Mr. President, just before the procedure for interrupting the debate on this point was made, you yourself read the names of three or four colleagues who signed up to speak and these people had not spoken. It's not enough that the ruling coalition hasn't come out here all day to say a word, and the opposition won't say anything?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u397	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Prodanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u398	And how to work... Well, it's the way it is. How do we work? Someone read us the Report and we here as robots to push the buttons without even expressing our different opinions?! Is this democracy, is this the way to lead parliamentary life in a parliamentary state, or is this the Gerbaji way and view in which...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u399	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u400	...is running the country?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u401	Nothing to me. Colleagues, I've literally followed the rules, so please excuse me, but so much for... Mr. Chenchev, is it in the manner of conduct? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u402	Dear Mr. Chairman, if both of you sitting behind me come down because you are really... I do not know if you are in the role and realize that you are fellow MPs like everyone here in this Chamber, you may have believed each other..... but if you sit on that side of the Chamber and look at one of you....................................................................... You've contributed to creating tension. Are you saving time, what you are doing is not clear, but since every MP has the right to speak for five minutes on a proposal, you are here to want to and to applaud one of you for having terminated the debate, but this is insolence! But you're so insolent! [[Comments from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u403	Procedure in the manner of holding Mr. Simeonov, and then... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Svilensky, a few times... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Now I'm going to give you the floor, please tell me everything at once!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u404	Mr. Chairman, my procedure in your manner is as follows: waters uniquely [[Laughter in GERB and OP]] You're right in the book! I'm just delighted and the Rules give me this right to express it because you absolutely respect art. 55, where it says, "Alinea 1. On procedural matters, the word is given immediately, unless there is a request for a reply, a duplicate or an explanation of a negative vote. "It does not say: if there is a list of speakers, they must speak, and you are obliged to give the floor immediately. One of the procedures..... under para............................................................................................. 2, is an end to the debate. This is point three: the person responsible is obliged to put to the vote this termination of the deliberations. When this termination of the debates is voted by the entire National Assembly, tell me on what grounds to give the floor to someone who has been recorded? Well, it could have 50, 80 recorded? The point of the procedure is precisely that of the fellow Member who did so: to end the debate. And this decision does not depend on a separate MP, it does not depend on the desire of a parliamentary group, but it depends on the decision of the National Assembly. I'm just fascinated by your manner of conduct! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u405	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Mr. Svilensky?!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u406	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I cannot be delighted by the way we conduct, not because we expect something else, but ultimately, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ivanov, Lachezar, all morning and all afternoon standing there screaming. I don't know if he knows where he is right now, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u407	Mr. Svilensky, please, to me!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u408	...if he knows where he is, please make him come to speak from the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u409	Everything to me. Mr. Ivanov is sitting there.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u410	To come and speak from the stands. I guess he doesn't know where he is and he talks like I don't have to tell him where he is. My procedure, Mr. Chairman, is to lead the meeting in accordance with the spirit of the Rules, to feel the House, to feel the subject and that a representative of the National Assembly is bored, and he wakes up and says: I want to end the debate, to tell him that in this House...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u411	Don't insult me! Behave yourselves!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u412	Don't insult your colleagues, Mr. Svilensky, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u413	I don't insult them. I didn't say anything. I didn't say anything. I didn't say anything. Let the MPs...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u414	Who woke up is another topic.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u415	...in this room, in this building, we are Parliament. There's talk here, there's no end to talking here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u416	It's shutting down!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u417	You don't sleep here, you don't yell here, you work here, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u418	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. I understand what you're trying to tell me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u419	I understand that your job is only to make procedures for name check and termination, but find yourself another occupation by making one statement a proposal of the budget for example.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u420	Mr. Svilensky, thank you. Let's stop here. Talk to me, not Mr. Ivanov. Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u421	Dear Mr. Chairman, it is good that she is sitting next to you Mrs. Karayancheva to share with you that in other cases, when there was a proposal for termination of the speeches, there was a list of two or three people who had to say that she allowed these statements to be made. You do not know why you decided that the dictatorship which is being introduced into the state should be introduced into the National Assembly and by stopping the speeches to shut the opposition's mouth so that the Bulgarian people can not hear what we are proposing. Well, you can do that tomorrow, using the letter of the Rules, after any statement we make or you do, someone can come out and say: cut the speeches and stop them. If this is how you are going to accept the budgets in the state, if this is how you are going to govern from here on, if this is how you are going to conduct the meetings in the National Assembly, don't be surprised why people do not love you and don't be surprised why tomorrow, when we as opposition decide that we should not be here or take other more active measures, for example, we stand here in front of the stands and we do not allow you to speak... [[Laughter and speech in GERB and OP]] [[Comments from GERB and OP: "Eee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u422	All right, Mr. Ermenkov. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u423	I have 48 seconds left and I'm talking to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u424	But talk to me about what you don't agree with.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u425	Yeah, I'm talking to you. So with everything I've said, I'm addressing you. So don't be surprised that the way you lead, we can also take active opposition measures, block your stands, and not let you speak. [[Laughter in GERB and OP.]] So... No, no, don't laugh! Don't laugh, because we can do this. Therefore, I ask you: return, Mr. Chairman, the subject, give these three or four people a statement. Don't make us go to excesses. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u426	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. You basically threatened me with your last words, is that how I understand it?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u427	I warned you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u428	You basically threatened me, threatened the Chairman of the Assembly right now! [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP. Replies from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] And don't wave your finger at me! I'm not afraid of your finger or your fist! But thank you to Mr. Ermenkov for basically admitting... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Okay, I'll give you the floor, wait for me to answer Mr. Ermenkov. I thank Mr. Ermenkov for essentially admitting in his statement that I have respected the letter of the Rules, because this is the passage that I have heard very clearly. Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov, I did follow the rules. [[General applause from GERB. Replies from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u429	Mr. Chairman, I don't know if you understand what you're doing right now, but you're not following the letter of the Rules of Procedure, but you're following the letter to silence the opposition. Because of the time that colleagues came here to do procedures in the manner of conducting this outrage that you have committed, they would have all spoken of by now. In all the time that you have lost here to explain to your colleagues that it is right to silence the opposition in an important text, which should have been discussed here in the Chamber, which is precisely about progressive income taxation, you have taken the floor of four or five people. At the moment, this discussion that we are having has been going on for over half an hour. Do you understand that you're not for this job? Really leave this place and give someone who can handle this debate. You treat yourself here with the opinions of one or two people and take away the time of 240 people who are in this room to be able to tell their views.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u430	You're 35.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u431	From now on, we have to argue for another half hour because of this stubbornness not to give the opposition the opportunity to express its views on an important law which concerns the future of Bulgaria. Because this budget that you're offering us, and the bills, they're sinking to the bottom. We want to express our opinion on those who are important to Bulgaria. [[Comments from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u432	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. I think you've said enough about me. You can't give me an assessment, I won't give you one either. Your assessment was given when you were Deputy Minister. [[Laughter and applause in GERB and OP.]] Who's next? Mrs. Daritkova? Excuse me, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u433	In the manner of conduct and personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u434	I didn't give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u435	Mr. Chairman, your evaluation will give you...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u436	I didn't give you...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u437	...the Bulgarian voters will drive you out of here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u438	Okay, I get it!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u439	A few months gives you an assessment of what you are. What are you! [[Noise and lines by GERB and BSP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u440	Don't wave your finger, I didn't give you the word! Please leave!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u441	I do to you in the manner of conduct, because you speak nonsense and you should not give an assessment to anyone. [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] You'll only give an assessment to yourself. An assessment will give you the Bulgarian voters...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u442	I didn't give an estimate... Don't wave your finger at me! Leave the stands, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u443	...because you're all out, you're out, you know?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u444	Leave the stands. Thank you. Mrs. Daritkova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u445	You're not giving an evaluation! You won't talk!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u446	We've got three people lined up around here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u447	No, by order of request, Mr. Genov, by order of request and by the way the word was requested.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u448	I had raised my hand, dear Mr. Genov. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I ask for a little more tolerance, patience and calmness!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u449	Thank you, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u450	Dear Mr. Chairman, I see that the atmosphere in this room has been extremely intense. I see requests for aggressive action against the Presidency, I see requests for deliberate delay, procedurally, of the work of the National Assembly. Please give 10 minutes to calm the passions. I'm also blaming you because you misjudged the procedures. I personally saw you record at least two people. Yes, we have asked for an end to the debate, but you should have done so after you gave the floor to those recorded. [[Applause.]] Therefore, I ask you, after these 10 minutes, that the leadership be taken over by one of the other Vice-Presidents, and that the Vice-President of the BSP will be involved if he believes that he can better manage the meeting, but that we can really do legislative work rather than procedural catch-ups and waste of the National Assembly's time. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u451	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. We interrupt for 10 minutes. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u452	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, we are continuing the meeting. I have referred to the Rules of Procedure, I have reviewed the Protocol and the Members of Parliament who have actually been enrolled so far have reason to claim a statement. I give the floor to the three MPs who signed up for a speech. Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u453	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u454	I'm entitled to a procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u455	Quiet, please! After all, we have to speak and it is our right, and that some people do not understand it is their problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u456	Please, Mr. Vangelov, I will regulate the order of the court.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u457	Of course, it is a good thing that Mrs Daritkova was extremely adequate. So, I ask those who are calling to leave the room, because there is clearly nothing else to say. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, this is indeed an extremely important issue, because we are talking here about changing the tax system. Everyone believes that when BSP offers progressive tax, it is almost something outdated, something from the past, only it turned out that absolutely all developed countries are currently under progressive tax. Why? Because they're fighting the inequality. Progressive tax is a way to fight inequality to have a really middle class, because there is no country that wants to have a miserable class. We offer something extremely important and it is good to understand, because we do not raise taxes on all people, and here taxes are only increased to approximately 125 thousand people. Because of 125 thousand people, you condemn the rest of those working in poverty, which is 2 million and 125 thousand people, because you've decided that you're almost a right-wing party and, you see, you can't raise taxes. Colleagues, this is about a policy that can actually lead to greater justice, because for those 125 thousand people who take incomes over BGN 3900, one number of approximately 60 million is obtained. lv. For the dear Mrs. Menda Stoyanova 60 million. lv. It may be a little bit of money, but for example, it's the money for all the kids if we want the first to XII-grade textbooks to be free. If we want to increase the competitiveness of the Bulgarian economy, it is nice to have educated and qualified staff, right, Mr. Ivanov? People come to the economy not because they are low taxes, but because they have qualified labour. In order to have qualified labour, some of these people need to be healthy, they need to have access to health care, and not God willing to have an operation happen to someone, knowing that the state can take over or that they can have qualifications, requalification and build educated people. How can this happen, colleagues? This can only happen through tax policy, and that is why from America the most liberal state, to Japan the big income is charged, and there is nothing shameful about it, nothing bad about it, and people are doing it all over the world. Again: unfortunately, the system that we have at the moment is unfair and exerts great pressure on people who are low-income. So let's start with the first step and a slight change that will only cover these 125 thousand people, because these nearly 60 million people. lv. For example, 200,000 children will have free kindergartens. What's wrong with that, given that we're only taxing 125 thousand people out of 2 million and 125 thousand. the person who de facto pays a tax on the income of individuals? Colleagues, this is a change of heart. We are the ones who introduced the flat tax, and now we are convincing you of something else as Kristalina Georgieva and Simeon Djankov convinced you. This effect, which was from 2008, has already been exhausted. There is no point in continuing to delve into a tax insurance system that no longer benefits. There used to be a coachman's profession, but there is no such profession anymore, and the same applies to flat tax. At the moment he does not bear these positives that he once carried, and you must be those who think about his possible change. There is nothing wrong with saying: yes, it is increasing, but it is only increasing for these richest people, so that those who really need these funds can help them. That's why people create middle class because this middle class is the engine for economic growth. You want sustainable economic growth -- it can't happen without consumption! You must be the ones to give the tone to the new tax insurance system. Otherwise, the easiest way is to stay the way it is, there is no investment, not because taxes are low, but there is no investment, because we do not have qualified labour, because we no longer have a justice system to protect investment, and so on. When it comes to the tax insurance system that we show you can really have a real effect, who are we protecting? Are these 125,000 people who have incomes above BGN 3,900, or are those over 2 million?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u458	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u459	I'm finishing with one sentence, Mr. Chairman. Therefore, colleagues, you should really start to think and hear what you are told, if not by the opposition, at least listen to Kristalina Georgieva and Simeon Djankov, and all economists, and the largest developed countries that have already rejected this system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u460	Thank you. Are there lines? Mr. Tishev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u461	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will focus on our two proposals that concern both the parents of children up to 18 years of age and the workers up to 26 years of age. Children are the future of Bulgaria! Kids are our capital! Apart from the human factor, Bulgaria cannot rely on either raw materials or natural resources for its development. The proposal we make with the reduction of the tax base on the incomes of working parents, which on an annual basis is 6000 BGN. and per month is 500 BGN, and it means for every child up to 18 years of working parent in the family, in the family budget to remain 50 BGN. more, or if there are two children up to 18 years of age - 100 BGN. more. It is clear in this Chamber that a family with children has far more expenses than a couple with no children or a single person who lives. Another, this money that will remain in the family and which for two children is BGN 1200. on an annual basis, parents can use them for their children's education, for their upbringing, for their education. This is how we help both parents and children and ultimately help Bulgaria as well. Our second proposal is for tax relief on the employment income of persons up to 26 years old and is a continuation of the first. While, up to 18 years of age, we help parents to raise children, is then 18 years old, these young people first come into the labour market. There they encounter lower pay, because it's normal, everyone is looking for experience. We propose that these young people's working income by 26 years do not be taxed. They really need our support, because at this very moment, they went out on the labour market, whether after their secondary education or after their higher education, their costs suddenly jumped. They start paying themselves for food, clothes, going out to quarters, becoming self-sufficient, creating families. Who else can we help if not them? Separately, as I mentioned, they are at the beginning of their careers, and even if they take a position that implies a high salary, they never take the ceiling. They start at a lower level. Do we want to keep these young people in Bulgaria? We do, don't we?! Well, let's help them then. Do we want them to pay their taxes in Bulgaria, insurance in NSI, do we want them to make added value in Bulgaria and not for a foreign country? Do we want them to eventually have their children in our country? That is why we propose: for a working person up to 26 years of age not to tax a total income on labour income. This is a social, demographic policy for us, it is a policy for the benefit of young people. And the last thing that concerns the two proposals. Through the changes in tax legislation we must make policy, but not policy per piece, but policy in the long and medium term and our proposals are exactly that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u462	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. Are there lines? I can't see. A statement? Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u463	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It is important to tell the truth in this Chamber and the truth is one thing: with our proposal to change the flat tax and move towards progressive income tax, we do not raise taxes, but on the contrary we strengthen that fundamental function of the Bulgarian tax system and of each tax system, and it is its redeploying effect to reduce inequalities. It is clear to all of us that the inequalities in Bulgaria are the highest in terms of the wealthiest against the poorest, and the coefficient is 8.2. If we look at the reports and reports, we will see that from direct taxes such as the personal income tax, the revenues in the country are about 19%. Let us see how things are happening in other European countries. The income from direct taxes in the middle developed European countries is about 34%, and in Bulgaria is the opposite of the indirect taxes in the other countries are about 30% and in Bulgaria the indirect taxes are more than 55%. All of this opened the scissors and planted a million. 500 000 Bulgarian citizens to live on the poverty line. With our proposal, what are we doing? Indeed, with this progressive rate that we are introducing, it will have an effect not on 125 thousand people, but less on 80 thousand. Souls. There is an answer to the question of the finance minister at the end of last month, which says that income over 4000 leva. have about 80 thousand people in Bulgaria. Our only idea of moving towards progressive income taxation is how to help these revenues in direct tax revenues and help those families who are at risk of social exclusion. And if we're talking about politics and proper behavior, ladies and gentlemen, open up your art. 22c of the Law on Income on Individuals and see how much is the tax preference for each Bulgarian child at the moment..................................................................................... a month! What do we suggest? We offer something adequate: every Bulgarian child, in every family that works, is provided and imported into the tax system, receives a tax preference of 50 BGN. I don't know, ladies and gentlemen of the Patriotic Front, when are you sincere? When you say that every Bulgarian child should receive support because every Bulgarian child is a child of Bulgaria, and since our proposal is related to a tax preference of 50 BGN, you do not support our proposal?! One and sixty-six leva a month! I'm going back to something extremely important. The progressive tax system does not punish the rich because they are rich, but allows them to assume their fair share and responsibilities to society, which has made them and continues to make them rich. It also does not reward the poor because they are poor, but gives them an opportunity for a more decent life. Only 5% and much less than 5% of Bulgarian citizens receive incomes over 4000 BGN and we as MPs enter this group. Let us take this responsibility for the Bulgarian citizens and the redeployment effect that taxes have to influence that poor, huge part of the Bulgarian society that needs our support. Therefore, I call on you: review your attitude towards our proposals under § 76, because they are adequate and are addressed to the entire Bulgarian population and are for the benefit of every Bulgarian citizen! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u464	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Are there lines? You have the floor, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u465	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My line is to you, Mrs. Klisurska. Perhaps here in your speech you should explain that the introduction of this progressive scale has an additional value to the state budget. What happens now? We have 3,000 leva. minimum security threshold. There are wealthy companies that make good money, and write to their employees 30, 40, 50, 60 thousand. lv. salary. And what happens? In order to take this money the other way as dividends and as paid corporate tax, you need 1 BGN. It's worth 15 pennies. This further helps Bulgaria to become a semi-offshore zone because the effect of the tax that will be collected from this salary, this high salary for the budget will be extremely large in the tax itself. In this way, progressive taxation puts a brake on incorrect companies who are doing everything, of course, and currently legally, but in this way a lot of money does not work in the budget of the state. [[Replications of the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u466	Thank you, Mr. Genov. It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u467	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Genov, you are right about the tax system in Bulgaria is a real machine for inequality. Unfortunately for me, the main debate is precisely that the tax system in Bulgaria should have been changed long ago, because the inequalities are huge. And what you are talking about is precisely related to the misguided policy on the low direct tax, the high VAT rate, which has the highest percentage and, how can I say, pressure on the consumption of low income groups, and on the other hand, corporate tax. If we see the statistics from last year, we will see that for companies that generate turnover over 30 billion. BGN, the tax they import is about 0,2%, which shows the entire wrong tax system in Bulgaria and the need for reform because the scissors of inequality is huge. Thank you, Mr. Genov, for what you have put out, because our proposal is adequate to what should happen in Bulgaria and we at BSP ensure that we do so if we have this opportunity.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u468	Thank you. That's how the speeches ended. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I will put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer for § 70, which becomes § 73; the text of the importer for § 71, which becomes § 74 in the version proposed by the Commission; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 72, which becomes § 75; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 73, which becomes § 76; the text of the importer for § 74, which becomes § 77; the text of the importer for § 75, which becomes § 78 with the editorial amendment proposed by the Commission. They voted 134 MPs: 89, against 23, abstention 22. The texts put to the vote have been adopted. The next vote is on the proposal of MP Krasimir Yankov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 101 MPs: 10, against 67, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Christian Vigenin and a group of MPs. They voted 136 MPs: 44, against 76, abstentioned 16. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for § 76, which becomes § 79.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u469	They voted 133 MPs: 87, against 41, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Negative vote on what?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u470	The whole paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u471	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u472	Madam President, I voted against GERB's proposal because our texts have dropped out. With these proposals we help over 2 million workers working on employment relationships, of which 1 million receiving monthly salaries up to 650 BGN, and 1.1 million receiving incomes up to 2 thousand. lv. To those who receive up to 650 BGN, with the submission of the annual tax return, they will be able to recover the income tax in advance. The others will be able to use a tax preference of 400 BGN. Annually. These mechanisms will help over 88% of workers, and budget revenues will only decrease by 25.3%. These proposals are a first step towards fair income taxation with the thought of working poor, not imitation! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u473	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Mrs. Angelova, please introduce us to the wording of § 77.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u474	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 77, which shall become § 80. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 78, which becomes § 81, and the words "Paragraph 76" shall be replaced by "Paragraph 79." Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 79, which shall become § 82, and shall propose the following wording: ............................................................................... In the Law on Local Taxes and Fees (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 3 after the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 54a, para. 3 of the Cadastral and Property Register Act are deleted; (b) in para. 4 and 6 the 2. Article 44, para. 4 is amended as follows: s (4) Alinea 1 shall not apply to motor vehicles: 1. acquired before their initial registration for movement in the country; 2. for which the acquirer is abroad and for which there is no subsequent registration for movement in the country; 3. with terminated registration on the basis of total damage and for which there is no subsequent registration for movement by a new acquirer in the country. Under § 80, there is a proposal of the MP Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs: In the transitional and final provisions, the following amendments shall be made to Paragraph 80: Add a new t. 1 containing: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In paragraph 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: 2. In paragraph 1, point (b) (i) is replaced by point (i) is replaced by point (i) is replaced by point (i) is replaced by point (ii) is replaced by point (ii) is replaced by point (ii) is replaced by 3. Allinei 2 and 3 are deleted. The following points shall be renumbered accordingly. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Christian Vigenin and a group of MPs: In the transitional and final provisions, § 80 prior to the date of entry into force of this Agreement. 1 a new point is created: I'm sorry, In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37 the following amendments shall be made: (a) in para. 1, t. 1: - in b. The number "supplied" is replaced by "supplied" 3 000 000. - in b. The number 4 000 000 is replaced by the number 6 000 000 is replaced by the number 4 000 is replaced by the number 6 000 000 is replaced by the number 4 000 000 (b) para. 2 and 3 are cancelled. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 80, which shall become § 83, i.e. 1 is amended as follows: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1, the word "June" is replaced by "September" everywhere; (b) in para. 9, ct. 2 the words "March 31' shall be replaced by "June 30'; (c) in para. 13: (aa) c. 1 the word "July' is replaced by "October'; (bb) c. 2 the words "April 30" shall be replaced by "July 31."
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u475	That's it. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. Mr. Mitev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u476	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, the proposal we have made is in relation to the criteria set out in the Accounting Act for carrying out an independent financial audit in respect of small enterprises. The obligation we have under the Directive on annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements and related reports of certain types of undertakings is to introduce an obligation of financial statements of undertakings operating in the public interest as well as of medium and large enterprises, not small ones. Unfortunately, in Bulgaria it is established practice and criteria for small enterprises to be subject to such statutory audit, although the directive itself states: The annual financial statements of small enterprises should not be subject to that audit obligation, as the audit may represent a significant administrative burden for this category of enterprises, while in many of the small enterprises the same persons are both shareholders and managers and therefore do not need that third party to ensure the reliability of the financial statements. However, contrary to this text, in our national legislation such an obligation is established for small enterprises. What, though, is the meaning of small enterprises? The Accountancy Act tells us that it is small enterprises that must have at least two of the following indicators: or the book value of their assets is 8 million. either the net revenue from the sale of 16 million or the average number of staff for the reporting period shall be 50 persons. However, the audit requirements of these small enterprises are in practice four times greater than the requirements which the Directive introduces. The Accounting Act states that the book value of the assets should be 2 million, net proceeds from sale 4 million, average staff numbers for the reporting period 50 people. In this way, what is actually being created is inequality in relation to small enterprises from the Republic of Bulgaria, compared to all other small enterprises in the European Union. Accordingly, this inequality leads to the incompetence of our small businesses on the European market. Just for comparison, what are the requirements? We have heard that with us enterprises with a book value of 2 million assets are respectively subject to the Accounting Act of such audit. In Greece, the requirement is 4 million. ... [[(Reply:]] Euros, to apologize. We've got $1 million. I turned into BGN. Romania is 3.5 million, Croatia is 2 million. EUR, in Slovakia is 2 million, in Germany is 6 million, in Slovenia 4 million. In practice, the comparative legal analysis shows that in the other Member States of the European Union, the state is doing much more to ensure the financial survival of small enterprises, which are practically a major part, and they are relying on to maintain and develop the country's economy. Unfortunately, we do not see such an approach in the Bulgarian legislation, so we have proposed an increase in these criteria, where an independent financial audit is being carried out, namely we offer 2 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, lv. the book value of the assets and net sales income respectively we propose to be of 4 million. lv. Raised to 6 million. That is to say, real audit bodies should focus on the audit of undertakings that are essential, as a net value of revenue and sales, and not waste their time with small enterprises. This makes their competitiveness worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u477	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Simeonov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u478	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I appeal to you to support our proposal, as this is about a continuing decade and more injustice, which is additionally burdening small businesses with one non-military activity, preparing audits, involving people from and without any other limited staff and a purely bureaucratic additional burden, which is unnecessary, wasting time and hence resources. It is about the fact that in the Law and currently there are texts that are lobbying, from my point of view, are absolutely lobbying, in favor of the auditors. As my colleague before me pointed out, Mr. Mitev, compared to all the other countries, including the countries that are, figuratively speaking, to our hal or to our level as gross domestic product per capita, such as Romania and Serbia, they have four times higher threshold, which is 3.5 times Romania, 4.4 Serbia, for example. How will we support such texts, which definitely contribute to aggravating the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises, which we all claim to be the backbone of our country's economy? There is another proposal, which my colleague Mitev missed, that is to be exempted from financial audits shareholder and command companies that have no turnover that have not been active. At the moment, they continue to be subject to this requirement to carry out audits. I see that BSP colleagues have made an equivalent offer. Of course, it's perfectly normal. [[Heckling]] We don't have to argue about who cheated what. These are proposals from one of the employers' organisations, which to the greatest extent represents small and medium-sized enterprises. They are quite naturally not supported by this employers' organisation, which represents the monopoly enterprises. So I appeal to your conscience, I also appeal to colleagues from GERB. Yesterday, here in this very room, I personally witnessed a change in the attitude that I saw in the eyes of Mrs. Menda Stoyanova, I hope that this will already be transformed into change and determination to support our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u479	Mr. Simeonov, thank you. It's good that you look into Mrs. Stoyanova's eyes as long as she looks into yours.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u480	To come down, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u481	Can I have my phone and my Rules? If you forbid me, I won't take them.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u482	Let's get her phone. Take it easy, please. A line? Here you go, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u483	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Simeonov, only if you can specify when you from NFSB actually found out about this proposal of this association that protects small and medium businesses? Because we at BSP dare to claim that we have long known about this expectation of them and have long made the proposal, which you did not then support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u484	Next line. Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u485	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Simeonov, I do not agree with your speech, as you should not only affect who from whom he cheated. That's really not the point. Just for the record, the proposal that we have tabled with you and the other colleagues from NFSB is, in fact, a consistent policy. We have been submitting such a proposal for several years when tax laws are being observed. We have not thought of submitting such a proposal this year, firstly, and secondly, our proposal has been submitted before to our colleagues from BSP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u486	Is there gonna be a third line? Here you go, Mr. Simeonov. We will see in the Ministry what is after what is there record the time and minutes when the proposal is submitted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u487	I won't do the douche. Moreover, Mr. Stoinev won't let me do the douche, so I won't do the douche.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u488	Oh, no, no. He can't not let you. You have the right to make a duplicate. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I put to the vote the text of the importer for § 77, which becomes § 80; the text of the importer for § 78, which becomes § 81 with the corresponding replacement; the version of § 79, which becomes § 82 of the Commission Report. They voted 99 MPs: 86 against 1, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. They voted 112 MPs: 41, against 6, abstention 65. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Christian Vigenin, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 114 MPs: 41, Against 59, abstention 14. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer of § 18, which shall become § 83 with the corresponding change of item 1. Vote 113 MPs: 86, against 24, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u489	Under § 81, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 81, which shall become § 84: ss s s s s s s s In the Tax Insurance Procedure Code (prom., SG No. ... ) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. in Art. 1. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 1 the words "March 31st" shall be replaced by "June 30th." 2. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 130a: Use of overpaid amounts for subsequent payments Art. 130a. (1) Where a declaration with an amount indicated therein has been lodged and the submitter has stated that he wishes the overpaid amount to serve for subsequent repayments in accordance with art. 169, para. 4 and/or the account for the forced collection of public claims, the revenue body within 30 days of the submission of the declaration may reflect in the tax-security account the amount claimed in accordance with the type of obligations applied for, which shall be considered to be payment made on the date of the reporting. (2) With the coverage of the entire amount claimed, the request of the person shall be deemed to be fully satisfied. (3) In the event of failure to comply with the request under para. Article 1 shall apply. 129, as the term under para. 3 of the same provision shall begin from the date of submission of the application under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission proposes that § 82 be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic position as such. 23 in § 72. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 83 and 84, which shall become paragraphs 85 and 86 respectively. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 85, which shall become § 87 and shall propose the following wording: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Road Traffic (prom., SG No. ...), in art. 144, para. 2 sentence 2 is amended as follows: First sentence does not apply to: 1. the obsolete vehicles; 2. motor vehicles for which the acquirer is abroad and for which there is no subsequent registration for movement in the country; 3. motor vehicles with terminated registration on the basis of total damage and for which there is no subsequent registration for movement by a new acquirer in the country. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Alexander Ivanov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes to create paragraphs 88, 89, 90 and 91 with the following wording: ...... 88............................................................................ In the Law on the Civil Service (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 7, para. 3 the words of the commercial companies with public or municipal participation in the capital or capital and other than in the cases provided for in the Public Enterprises Act shall be deleted and a sentence shall be created second: the State official may participate as a representative of the State or the municipality in the management or control bodies of the commercial companies with state or municipal participation in the capital, of the public undertakings established by special laws on the basis of art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Law, as well as in the management or control bodies of their subsidiaries for which they receive remuneration. § 89. In the Labour Code (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 107a., para. 2 the words of the commercial companies with public or municipal participation in the capital or capital and other than in the cases provided for in the Public Enterprises Act shall be deleted and a sentence shall be created second: The employee may participate as a representative of the State or the municipality in the management or control bodies of the commercial companies with state or municipal participation in the capital, of the public undertakings established by special laws on the basis of art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Law, as well as of the management or control bodies of their subsidiaries for which he receives remuneration. § 90. In the Law on Gambling (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22, para. 1 the words "the Minister of Economy" shall be deleted. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30, para. 12 the words the person concerned shall be replaced by the person concerned. § 91. (1) The certification signs for participation in lottery games, betting games on performance of sports competitions and racing with horses and dogs, betting games on random events and betting relating to knowledge of facts may be used by the organizers and without complying with the requirement of art. 10b, t. 1 of the Gambling Act, until their quantities are exhausted. (2) The requirements of art. Art. 10d. 10e of the Gambling Act applies after the expiry of 24 months after the entry into force of this law. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the establishment of a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes to establish § 92: ................. 92............................................................. (1) Person requesting early termination of a licence under art. 35, para. 1, t. 4 of the Gambling Act, on which there is no decision for early termination of license by the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency until 31 December 2020, does not owe an annual contribution for socially responsible behavior under art. 10a of the Gambling Act for 2021 (2) Paragraph 1 shall not apply where: 1. there are circumstances under Art. 1. 35, para. 2 of the Gambling Act, or; 2. pending the issue of a decision for early termination of a licence by the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency, the person withdrew his request. Proposal of the National Representative Spas Panchev to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes to establish § 93 with the following wording: ..... 93......................................................................... In the Law on Consumer Credit (prom., SG No. ...) the following additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4, para. 1, t. 14 is amended as follows: It's 14 years old. Credit agreements in the form of overdraft with a one-month repayment term or credit agreements concluded with financial institutions under art. 3 of the Credit Institutions Act which meet the requirements for overdraft with a one-month repayment term and are used with a payment instrument within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 30 of the additional provision of the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems, except in the cases referred to in art. 8, para. 7. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The 19th para is . (7) The costs under para. 3, p. 1 under a credit agreement granted by a financial institution under art. 3 of the Credit Institutions Act may not be greater than the two-fold principal amount, and in fulfilling this condition, they shall not be considered excessive within the meaning of art. 143, para. 2, p. 5 of the Law on Consumer Protection and Harmful Morals under art. 26 of the Law on Obligations and Contracts. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the wording of the importer for § 86, which shall become § 94 and shall propose the following wording: ............................................................................... The law shall enter into force from 1 January 2021, with the exception of: 1. Paragraph 17, § 31, § 59? 61 and § 68? 69, § 71, p. 11, § 88 "89," § 91 "92," which shall enter into force within 3 days of the promulgation of the law in the Official Journal. 2. Paragraph 39 concerning art. 154, para. 2 § 41 concerning Art. 156, para. 2 § 43 concerning Art. 157a, para. 4 and § 63, which shall enter into force from 1 April 2021. 3. Paragraphs 1 to 9, § 11.13, § 15 and 16, § 18. 30, § 32, § 33.58, § 62, p. 1, b. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 1, 2, 3, 12, 13, and 14, which shall enter into force from 1 July 2021. 4. Paragraph 71, t. 4 which shall enter into force from 1 January 2022
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u490	Statements? Mr. Stoynev, Mr. Nedyalkov has made statements.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u491	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My statement is under art. 86. I call on Mrs. Menda Stoyanova to come out on the stand and explain why this proposal has been made that civil servants can participate as representatives of the state or the municipality in the management and control bodies of commercial companies for which to receive remuneration? Indeed, we are all asking ourselves where this text came from. Ms. Menda Stoyanova is an importer of the text and I call on her to come out on the stand and explain the reason, all the more so when we voted the Law on State Municipal Enterprises, the civil servant has no place in the management of these enterprises. Suddenly you give them the right to receive on top of everything else and reward. If you want these businesses to be really profitable and stop draining themselves both in the state and in the municipalities, then there must be really professionals who will manage these companies selected by competition so that these enterprises really compete with private enterprises. However, not that you do not do this, but even more you insert a text that states that they also receive remuneration. Mrs. Stoyanova, step out of the stands and explain why this text is inserted! There's no one in this room who doesn't know what's causing it. You're the only one who knows it. Addressing journalists, only Mrs. Menda Stoyanova in the country knows why these people should receive remuneration! You need to go out there and explain it, so we're clear. So, Mrs. Stoyanova, I hope that you will come out and explain, moreover, that we are not members of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. You know exactly what the criteria are there. [[GERB lines.]] On the contrary, this is contrary to the criteria in this organisation. You need to go out there and explain, because that means... [[GERB lines.]] No, I'm saying this on purpose to let you know that someone else is telling you what to import, what to vote for and how to vote. If Mrs. Stoyanova does not come out of the stands and does not give an adequate answer to what you will vote in a moment, it means that you are just a stamp, that you do not think what is going on without insulting you, I say it really with concern. I urge Mrs. Menda Stoyanova to come out and explain where this text came from? Why are we putting him to the vote? Why would you support him? Thank you. [[Relations from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u492	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. - What's the line? Here's a line, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u493	Dear Mr. Stoinev, you said in your speech that we have always insisted that the state enterprises be managed by professionals because they have a serious potential for profits and for filling the state budget. Except this is where we get away with our goals. On GERB their goal is not to have professionals to raise state enterprises, but to have party ladybugs to receive two salaries. That's the whole point. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I would like to take advantage of the fact that you called Mrs. Stoyanova here to answer your questions. And I would like to add one question: Mrs. Stoyanova, can you answer me...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u494	Not to Mrs. Stoyanova, the line is to Mr. Stoyanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u495	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u496	To Mr. Stoinev are the questions!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u497	...in connection with the selection, because 10 days ago we were looking at the Public Enterprises Act. It is clear that there must be a Commission to make the selection and broadcast the most worthy candidate. If, for example, the Secretary General of the Ministry is running for a member of the Board of Directors, and the Election Commission consists of his subordinates, will this candidate be elected?! Of course he's gonna get elected. However, this violates absolutely all the principles of honesty, transparency, let alone some cent, professional experience and potential to really manage these businesses as they should be managed and as we have always wanted, insisted and proposed.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u498	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. Second line, Mr. Svilensky, come in. My request is that the line be to Mr. Stoinev. Not to Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u499	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Stoyanova, it seems that Mrs. Stoyanova will not tell you who writes the Law, but you should also tell us if you know, because it is interesting for the MPs and I suppose for the media and for the Bulgarian citizens. But the problem is not only that, Mr. Stoinev, the problem is that several laws are passed here in a few days. One amendment is the one in which civil servants taking part in the boards, right on the boards, Mrs. Stoyanova, to receive salaries. Yesterday in the Transport Commission, we were looking at another Rail Transport Act, where the Law on Public Enterprises changes in Transitional and Final Regulations, in which Law says that the chief secretaries will be able to participate. So now will the chief secretaries receive a salary, or will they not receive from the boards they participate in and we know what bonuses they receive? [[Relations from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova.]] Under the Public Law, they will also receive the Secretary General. And the question Mr. Prodanov asked. The Secretary-General, when he comes to a competition where members of the Commission are the Director of the Legal Directorate, the Director of the Financial Directorate and the Director of Human Resources, this candidate, in your opinion, how many points will he receive and will he not be the only one to win the contest? Are you aware of the work you do in the legislation, the Public Finance Act, the Civil Service Act, the Public Enterprises Act? You're attacking all over the place to get those employees there, assigned to the party, and I don't know what, to get a few hundred thousand more. Mr. Stoyanov, please answer in the back, what footage do they feed on this money and who wrote Mrs. Stoyanov's text?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u500	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Is there gonna be a third line? Mr. Stoynev, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u501	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am really sick that when there is such a good initiative, which was in the Public Enterprises Act, the state and municipal enterprises to break away from politicians, to be able to work on the market, is in principle, you do the opposite. On top of that, you also give them salaries to make it clear that everyone who is from GERB, everyone who is in government work, apart from working, will also have additional remuneration at the expense of the Bulgarian citizens. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the legislation of GERB. This is Mrs. Menda Stoyanova's legislation, which despite all the market mechanisms she has, you are imposing an outdated way of working in these enterprises, only to be drained. What's the conclusion?! You have to be from GERB, you have to be in government work and you have to receive one additional remuneration in a state and municipal enterprise. Thank you. [[(Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) Replies from GERB.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u502	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Mr. Nedyalkov, come in for a statement. Mr. Nedyalkov is the last statement to be made so far.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u503	Madam President, honourable Members! I'd say in the previous speeches and lines, but I'll refrain from saving your precious time so much. I will say that you are once again making legislation that is not under the supervision of law, and if you apply the amendments to the two laws.................................................................................... One is about civil servants, the other is about ordinary employees to call them. You make similar changes and you make them that way. I take the example of the civil servant that it is the same for the employee. The civil servant will not receive remuneration if he participates in the bodies of the management of legal entities established by law and so on and so forth. At the same time, a second sentence is created which gives it the right to receive remuneration for commercial companies. I think companies are part of legal entities established by law. Commercial companies are made under the Commercial Law, created by law. And with the second sentence, all of a sudden, only those in which there is something to be taken. In other companies established by law, such as the associations of municipalities, such as the associations, horizontal structures in Bulgaria, they will not receive funds there. They'll only get it when they're in commercial companies. And this shows exactly what the purpose of the Law is. Recently, I have listened to the opinion that they really should receive remuneration for their work if they are involved in company management. But that's not what the government of Boyko Borisov thought when he cancelled this situation years ago. That's what we forgot to say. It is precisely Boyko Borisov's first government that has tabled these amendments, which have been renewed to the public officials and civil servants, employees, not to receive remuneration. Now there is no explanation why this is coming back, or rather the explanation is so clear that it is transparent. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-19.u504	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the text of the importer of § 81 which becomes § 84; the rejection of § 82; the text of the importer for § 83 which becomes § 85; the text of the importer for § 84 which becomes § 86; the version of § 85 which becomes § 87 of the Commission Report; the creation of new paragraphs 88, 89, 90 and 91 with the corresponding version; the creation of a new § 92; the creation of a new § 93 with the corresponding version and the version of § 86 which becomes § 94 of the Commission Report. Quaestors, invite the MPs to the Chamber. They voted 106 MPs: 69 against 34, abstention 3. The proposal is adopted, and with this, the Law on Value Added Tax at second reading. Communications of parliamentary control on 20 November 2020 Friday following the conclusion of the legislative part of the meeting: 1. Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev will answer a question from the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov. 2. Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy and Tourism Minister Mariana Nikolova will answer four questions from the MPs Dzhevdet Chakarov; Hristo Prodanov Two questions, and Teodora Halacheva. 3. Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva will answer three questions from the MPs Valeri Zablyanov, Krasimir Yankov, Nikolay Ivanov, Dimitar Stoyanov, Georgi Andreyev, Lalo Kirilov and Chavdar Velinov; Anton Kutev and Zhelyo Boychev; and Christian Vigenin; and one question from the National Representative Alexander Paunov. 4. The Minister of Economy Lachezar Borisov will answer three questions from the MPs Rumen Gechev; Zhelyo Boychev; and Nadia Klisurska-Zekova. 5. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer a question from the MPs Nikolai Ivanov and Vasil Antonov. 6. The Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will answer a question from the National Representative Nikola Dinkov. 7. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer two questions from the MPs Lyubomir Bonev and Nikola Dinkov; and Lyubomir Bonev and two questions from the MPs Georgi Svilenski, Manol Genov and Dimitar Danchev; and Pavel Shopov. 8. The Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov will answer five questions from the MPs Georgi Yordanov and Ilian Timchev to two questions; Manol Genov; Veska Nencheva and Georgi Yordanov; Krasimir Yankov, Nikolai Ivanov, Lalo Kirilov, Valeri Zablyanov, Dimitar Stoyanov, Georgi Andreyev and Chavdar Velinov. 9. Culture Minister Boel Banov will answer a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - the Minister of Interior Hristo Terziyski, one question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Minister of Justice Desislava Ahladova at a request from the National Representative Krum Zarkov; - Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov to three questions with written answer from the MPs Georgi Gokov, Georgi Yordanov and Violeta Jeleva; Kristina Sidorova; and Georgi Gokov. Due to sick leave, the Minister for Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. That was for today's meeting. Tomorrow, a regular plenary session at November 20th, at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
