ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members, today at the Conference of Presidents, it was decided that the National Assembly's Work Programme should be with one point for 26 and 27 March 2020: Only point: Draft decision to amend the decision on the work of the National Assembly during the state of emergency, announced by decision of the National Assembly (SG. 22 from 2020), n.o.b., SG No. 26 from 2020 Please, voting mode. Vote 170 MPs: 112, against 57, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Bills and Projects entered into force from 18 March 2020 to 25 March 2020: A bill to amend and supplement the Law on Radio and Television. He's an importer, Alexander Siddy. The Committee on Culture and Media is the lead. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship. Exporters Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Report on the activities of the Fiscal Council of Bulgaria. The Chairman of the Fiscal Council is the importer. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order, Security and Defence Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of an aircraft with its crew from the Air Force of Ukraine. The aircraft will fly from Ukraine to the Kingdom of Jordan and back to transport special production. The authorisation is valid for the period from 25 to 30 March 2020. The notification was received on 25 March 2020. No 003 09-28 and granted to the Defence Committee. Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO CHANGE A DECISION ON THE WORK OF PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING ON AN EXTREME POSITION EXPLAINED BY A DECISION OF PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING (BIA, BIA, BIA) This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from This appropriation is intended to [[Presidents change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u2	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today at the Conference of Presidents, taking into account the situation, we united without BSP that the meetings of the National Assembly should be only on the occasion of legislation concerning the emergency situation and parliamentary control should be written. Why did we decide that? The global trend in the spread of the coronavirus is becoming increasingly alarming. And if we had 242 yesterday, we have 243 today, no one can guarantee that in the next few days there will be no 500, 1000 or more. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u3	You can't disband the country, Karayancheva!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u4	Please, Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u5	Mr. Zablyanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u6	CIVID-19 does not choose either party, social, religious or ethnic. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We can't want the whole country under quarantine, which is getting tighter and tighter, and we're showing that we're violating all the social distance regulations! We have adopted the most important laws to help the country overcome the crisis as easily as possible. Now it's time for us to obey these laws! Now is the time to get rid of illusions and first of all the illusion of exclusivity! Like everyone else, we are subject to the disease... [[Reply from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u7	Mr. Jablyanov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u8	...and we can become distributors of this disease! The virus won't politely ask us, "Excuse me, are you MPs?" Oh, well, I'll pass you! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] What happens if he finds himself in the room sick or in contact? There's a 14-day quarantine period coming up. This means automatically blocking the work of the National Assembly. [[Reply from "BSP for Bulgaria": "Where is it coming from?"]] If we're all at home... From yesterday's minister's orders, where there are clearly written rules, how far we must be from each other, how long we must sit in a closed room! But going back to my last sentence, if all MPs go into quarantine for 14 days, that means automatically blocking the National Assembly. [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria]] and we will not be able to make decisions concerning the state of emergency! However, if we are all in our homes and we expect such legislative initiatives, we will be able to see those who are healthy at least come and vote so that the state does not stop. We are rudely violating the Minister's orders as well. I speak as a citizen of the Republic of Bulgaria. [[(Reply from BSP for Bulgaria]] While by March 20th we had a good reason, we are now gathered here in a closed room, less than two meters apart, in more than 15 minutes! The ventilation cannot be stopped, as the Operations Headquarters prescribes, because there is no way here in the room that fresh air can flow, there is no way to ventilate. [[(Replys from BSP for Bulgaria Open the windows!]] In the rooms where the groups are, you know how far they stay from each other. There is no way, in spite of the measures taken here in the National Assembly, that after each MP women will pass and clean the doorknobs. Compliance with the recommendations of the Social Distancing Headquarters are not only to protect ourselves, but also to prevent others from becoming infected. Compliance with these recommendations is a matter of civil responsibility. Ask yourself yourself: Are you prepared to be guilty of infecting a loved one, a relative, or any random person, or the colleagues from the administration who come here to work with us instead of working in their homes?! Or the journalists who are here in the building, who are somewhat secure, and they can't do their job the way they were doing it earlier because they have to be separated upstairs. Not to comment that there were colleagues who used the populist situation and said that they were upstairs and this is hardly discrimination or work against freedom of speech. My fellow Members, I am not talking about closing Parliament because Parliament has not stopped working during wartime! But today we face an invisible threat. We don't know which one of these people was in contact! We need to be reasonable and make a decision as we have proposed, and we need to attend meetings when there are acts that need to be voted on in relation to the state of emergency. And the parliamentary control should be written. Well, we're not gonna see each other on TV, but I think that's not a problem at this point. I know now that someone will say that this is a dictatorship for the benefit of executive power, because I hear that it gives us two generals the opportunity to rule us, that parliamentaryism is dying and all such clichés. I'm expecting them right now! But let's read the Constitution. Art. 78, points 1 to 4, and art. 46 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly and what is written in this decision: "The National Assembly shall be convened at any time at meetings by the President of the National Assembly: at his initiative; at the request of one fifth of the Members of the National Assembly, 48 Members of Parliament may convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly; at the request of the President; and at the request of the Council of Ministers. At the moment, our nation is showing exceptional discipline. Come on, let's not go in the opposite direction. I call on you to be at the height of the rest of the citizens. Democracy can also be protected by being quarantined by helping each other because we see the whole society mobilize, how people help each other, how many volunteers we have. When we are united in trouble, we can win! To thank sincerely all those working on the front line, I will not list them because many colleagues have already addressed them! I'll just say, may God help them and protect them! Therefore, colleagues, I propose today that we adopt this decision. Everyone will have the right of this tribune to express their position. With work we can catch up when we work and during vacations, but human health and human life can't catch up! Thank you. [[World and long applause by GERB, OP, Volya, non-members in BG.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u9	Thank you, dear Mrs. Karayancheva. Colleagues, that was the opinion of an importer. Before I open the debate, I would like to ask for a little more tolerance. Silence during the speech of a Member of the National Assembly is not only a matter of observance of the Rules but also of other things, so please be tolerant. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you are, dear Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ms. Karayancheva, honourable Members of the National Assembly! No wonder we got to today's discussion. It has been prepared for days, debates have also been held in the Conference of Presidents, parties have been changing positions to finally get to what was aimed at from the very beginning. Stopping the work of the National Assembly in practice for an indefinite period, as from now we can say: do not make illusions, the state of emergency will not end on 13 April. I know you'll reunite us before April 13th to extend it. The National Assembly will complete its normal work for a long time and you will, of course, bear the primary responsibility for this. Ms. Karayancheva, I am sorry that you have given this responsibility to submit this proposal because as President of the National Assembly you contribute personally to the destruction of our institution. [[Noise and lines from GERB. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] I think that your President Borisov that your parliamentary group could have spared you this humiliation of you and of the Bulgarian Parliament and been tabled at least on behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB. You are a soldier, fulfilling this decision, but along with this, there is no way to spare you the criticism that, in all this time, you personally and your parliamentary group, instead of looking for ways to continue as far as possible, the normal work of Parliament, you have been looking for arguments as to why this work cannot continue. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u11	Don't go into dialogue yet.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u12	I am stopping for a while, as I understand that what I am saying is not pleasant to you, but part of parliamentaryism is at least listen. Having a claim to our parliamentary group, observe some elementary ethics in the last normal meeting that we have in the coming weeks and perhaps months. [[Loud noise.]] This disrespect for Parliament as an institution is not new to GERB in the years in which you had a majority here. You have violated confidence in this Parliament systematically with poor legislation and with the way legislative activity is carried out in this Parliament. You have ruined the trust in this Parliament with the disrespect that the executive authority and personally Prime Minister and Chairman of the Political Party GERB demonstrated in these years and continues to demonstrate. Instead of trying to find the working solutions together, you are going to the easiest place to lock the parliament outside and gather when it comes to the President and your party. We believe that the National Assembly, as the supreme institution in a republic with parliamentary rule, should set an example for people, not by staying locked up in our houses and being afraid of getting infected, but by setting an example by ensuring normality in the state and in the government, by guaranteeing democracy and the democratic process by ensuring control of the actions of the executive. I am convinced that you yourself do not believe that written parliamentary control can play this function, that meetings convened by the government in practice................................................................................ Well, we know how this process works. You don't respect Parliament, you don't respect yourself, unfortunately, but that will probably change. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] This is normal, but think about whether I am wrong, because you know very well that this is what is happening in the Bulgarian Parliament. This problem is not only a Bulgarian problem. Not a lot of parliaments in the European Union are acting with reduced activity and not only are there so many countries, but perhaps only one where democracy is actually put to the test. From morning to night, briefings of the executive and personally of the prime minister for hours on all media. For hours there are briefings of headquarters, medical advice, of people who inspire fear, create panic with their actions, and the Bulgarian Parliament will hide because it finds no way to continue its work and give the opposition the opportunity to control the management one of the main functions. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Briefings, because you're yelling, our briefings won't be given directly on TV, of course. The media will be instructed not to give voice to what the opposition has to say. [[Voices from GERB: "Eee! "]] One day you will find yourself in this situation most likely, but I will not dwell on it now, because today's discussion is in this way: how can Parliament be useful? You didn't find that way. You have found a way for Parliament to be the only and only seal of the extraordinary laws that will bring you the executive power and the Council of Ministers and humiliate both Parliament and us all, but, of course, we as opposition will not allow this to last long! We will find a way to oppose this violation of democracy and the institutional order in Bulgaria! We, as opposition, will fight for democracy in Bulgaria to be protected, for control of the executive power to continue to take place. And you, who are empathetic today and provoke this, will sooner or later pay your political price! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] This Parliament must be called only once more to vote on the resignation of this government and on new elections! [[Strong noise and lines from GERB. Communicating: "Eee! "]] Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Are there any lines? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. You have the floor, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am sitting here listening carefully to the speech of the previous speaker, whom I respect very much, and I am astonished at his speech and behaviour. As if here gathered, the people's representatives are not from this planet and the things that are happening around us are not concerned with our sick loved ones who are growing every day?! I'm sitting, listening, watching, and I can't believe it! Every day on the screens, as was just said, medical experts come out and say how many of our fellow citizens are struck by this invisible disease. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] How much? I'll tell you later. I'll give you a special condition for the whole country. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Chairman, if you don't mind... By continuing, I want to address you all here as a doctor who is also involved in this extremely complex environment that no one in the world knows how to deal with, how to treat patients and strive by any means on the part of pharmaceuticals, of all people of physics, of chemistry, to stop this invisible infection. Here, fellow Members, I am amazed that a parliamentary group is standing before us, for which there is nothing, as if spring came and we want to work with zeal, with enthusiasm. Colleagues, I am most responsible to you, humble yourselves! Humble to the disease! We're all the same before sickness and death. Even at this moment, I see smiles and ridicules. Colleagues, I can tell you in my practice, which I have had, I have treated many MPs before I know that I will sit here and speak from this tribune. We're all the same in the face of sickness and death! Remember this, because tomorrow there is a member of parliament here, which I also respect, his father works at the Fifth City Hospital and every day he meets the disease. I can tell from this high tribune that my sister is also a doctor and is on the first front, and is infected with a coronavirus. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yeah, yeah, laugh. The disease is extremely severe and virulent. And none of us, if we now do samples here, can guarantee that everyone will be negative. I turn to you, there is a time and a way to expose your political views, to expose your intentions to reform governance as an opposition party, but now we need to be an example and a reference to how we comply with the regulations of the Chief Health Inspector and the Staff. Remember that under Law and Constitution, when there is an emergency situation, we are like all other citizens and we are not protected by this coronavirus in any way. Whether self-esteem, pride, leave them, swallow them, humble yourself! Let us heed the advice of people who have studied and dealt with epidemiology and infectious diseases. Think about what I'm saying! And as for politically, I can also speak politically because it was not far away when you, in the wonderful conditions we had, made the wise decision to leave Parliament. How did you then turn around and have a tribune in front of your citizens to express your positions, I ask?! [[Applause from GERB.]] There was a time when we were all healthy, there were no problems, and you left, then you didn't look for the stand for your performance. Is this the time when we all have to show unity?! We are the people who represent the citizens here, we need to be a benchmark, an example of discipline of the measures imposed by the Headquarters. At the same time, here, as you can see, we are unprecedentedly violating the provisions of both the Staff and the Minister of Health. I turn to you to remind you that no one has ever been forgiven, and there is no disease, and I will not set an example for epidemics of plague, typhoid, and so on, I will not fall into medical diagnoses, I will not fall into historical facts, but I will address you: if you have hearts, if you really have reason to think about what is happening in the country.........................I say that none of us can predict what the course of the disease will be, how will develop in our country. I believe that we have taken some of the best measures in Europe for this because you see how graphs develop in Belgium, in the Netherlands, not to give examples of how the infection occurs. I do not understand what arguments are needed to start reporting the black statistics how many people have died in Bulgaria today, to start as in Italy, in Belgium, France, in European countries to take into account the number of people who have died?! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yes, I can set an example for other European countries as I follow everything very carefully. Dear colleagues, today I do not want to make tirads of this tribune to show how much and how much we want to work. I would like to address you: let each of us be an example to help with what we can in the extremely difficult and complex situation. Again, let's not be political! Any one of us in this parliament can do it. I'm addressing you: to help who can do what they can. The National Assembly shall not be closed, it may be convened at any time in this emergency situation. Don't worry about it. Your worries are different. I believe that this period of quarantine and isolation in the country will in no way bring down your charm among your constituents and admirers. On the contrary, it will be an example. [[Reply by National Representative Cornelia Ninova.]] Yes, ma'am, replicate me here from the stands, I'd be delighted to give you an answer. By finishing, I would like to say this: I propose that all of us do what is necessary to be close to our loved ones and monitor what is happening in the country. Let everyone who has an idea have some initiative to submit it so that we can stop the epidemic in Bulgaria! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u16	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! There are no parliamentary groups here today. Today, each of you has his own conscience, to which we turn repeatedly when we speak from here. But conscience is personal, not public. She can find some manifestation and what the President of the National Assembly is proposing today...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u17	And a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u18	...is a violation of the Constitution, a violation of the political democratic order in Bulgaria in the last 30 years. The responsibility of those who stand behind this decision will be sought by the Bulgarian citizens after years. But you're taking this decision today.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u19	You never know.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u20	You have decided today, after 30 years of free parliamentary life in Bulgaria, under a pretext which, of course, should be looked at with all the... the spread of the virus, which there is no one left who does not know about, under this pretext you want to get rid of the highest representative body of the Republic. You want to rule by decrees, you want to rule by decrees, you want to run by press conferences, with personal opinions, with professional journalists, with faithful media. You want to rule like this! This government has a clear name and it is a dictatorship! Dear rulers, you seek dictatorship! You have always sought this way of governance because you have never been able to have a political debate, even during elections.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u21	Are you going to tell me?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u22	You today, disbanding the parliament, unfortunately, began by saying: "We have all united without BSP. " - Who have you united with then? [[Laughter at GERB.]] BSP is not this parliamentary group. BSP is a political tradition. BSP are the tens and hundreds of thousands of people who believe in another fair, free, democratic and solidarity political order [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria (BGSP for Bulgaria))]] which you reject, in which you never believed and have always accepted externally.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u23	Tell me about Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u24	The chairman of our office today said we could work, that we might not work, maybe catch up. Parliament is not a cooperative, Ms Karayancheva, where the norms can be implemented, can be re-executed and taken into account to the planning authority. Parliament is the representation of the nation! There are no specialized committees, no specialized councils, no senior competent doctors, doctors, specialists and professors on this or that part of the virus. There is representation of the Bulgarian people and this is us here. When you decide to relax yourself when you decide to abdicate, because what you are doing at the moment is abdication to delegate your own powers, to give up what the Bulgarian citizens have chosen you for, you come down not only under the responsibility of the historical moment, you come down under your own conscience. You won't be able to look at your constituents tomorrow, not for anything else, but because they won't be there. [[Heckling]] What Mrs. President sometimes likes to repeat is sometimes out of place: "People, watch!" says Mrs. Karayancheva. People, watch because authoritarianism is taking place in Europe! Because it does not happen only in Bulgaria. The dissolution of parliaments in Europe will end with a serious retreat from civil and political rights. I am uncomfortable on behalf of the Bulgarian Party for Rights and Freedoms, a party that, in its decade-long history, fought for the rights of disadvantaged Bulgarian citizens, who is now ready to join the speculations of the ruling directive under the attack of the virus. Today, the Bulgarian Parliament will obviously not do what it is elected to do. Bulgarian citizens today in front of television in their homes are waiting for salvation. They are waiting for salvation from the invisible disease, from the scary military threat, from the mobilized headquarters. They have been worried, but in just a few months they will ask for an account of those who manage them to seek their wages, to seek their freedom, to seek the opportunity to communicate with their loved ones, to cancel the orders for a walk in the park, to visit Vitosha, the reserve in the Balkan Mountains, for the free movement of every Bulgarian citizen, to remove the incompetently organized checkpoints that prevent people from going to work. That's what they're gonna ask you to do, and they're gonna come after you. I am surprised at those who gave this proposal today, not understanding that Parliament, representing the nation, is making the living connection between the Bulgarian people and the government that governs; that Parliament is the source of its legitimacy; that only one month in which we will not be here, the legitimacy of all the self-appointed saviors of the nation today will not just be questionable, it will disappear and they will end up face to face with the Bulgarian citizens who want and seek their freedom, who want to preserve their social and civil rights. Then there'll be no stopping them, then you'll come down from where you came up right now without knowing how and without knowing why. The Bulgarian Parliament is not just a parliament, it is a national assembly, like that of Oborishte. It represents the Bulgarian citizens and you are giving it up today! By giving this up, you're giving up on your own self. You were about to become a parliamentary party and at the moment when Parliament had to find a way to lead the Bulgarian people through these difficult trials, you gave up your own essence. This does not honor you, and this will be taken into account in your political destiny. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. Are there any lines? The line, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I was sure that on my way here, I would hear such tosses from the BSP for Bulgaria. The lines last time were: "It is for Mareshki, for doctors there is none. " So I listened to your previous lines and immediately donated these two suits to two needy teams as they were left thanks to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u27	They're infected.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u28	All the governments in the years have been left unattended. And today I had more outfits, but on the way I was giving, constantly donating, everything, if only there were for the people. Because for us from Volya, unlike you, comrades from BSP for Bulgaria. The interest of Bulgarian citizens is above all. Mr. Zablyanov, you've thrown very loudly here, even in front of a large part of the media, something of an insult to them or some sort of spell that there are such media and such journalists, which I almost won't say any epithets, I'll leave it on your conscience... But I want you to announce here, from the stands, in the form of a duplicate, if you have the manhood, of course, to say who these media are and who these journalists are doing such irregular things that you are talking about. I hope you will, but I don't believe you'll find the courage to do even that. But what's more important than that? The most severe punishment a person can receive and, in this case, a parliamentary party is indifference.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u29	Time is running out, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u30	Just 10 more seconds. The three months of your absence here were appreciated by the Bulgarian citizens in this way, neither as hatred, nor as something good that you have done, they simply did not notice that you were gone.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u32	This is the assessment of the Bulgarian citizens and your voters! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u33	Thank you. Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Zablyanov? I won't. Personal explanation Mrs. Karayancheva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u34	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The offer I made today is not just mine. Underneath it are signed and chairmen of parliamentary groups. Someone in the stands here said I called to watch. Yeah, let's watch out for the People's Court that destroyed the color of the nation! [[(Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, ……]] Let's not repeat Chernobyl when Bulgarian citizens were outside, on the streets and were manifesting and eating green salad, and party greats stood somewhere quiet and ate special biological food! Why, since there is no problem, why, if there is no threat, do you, honourable Members, not hold your meetings...................................................................................................................................................... Dear colleagues, dear friends! I told you that here it will be said that this is against the Constitution, that we are suffocating parliamentaryism in Bulgaria. Say what you want. If today we have the opportunity to save a human life for you, a loved one, of people working in the administration, of me, dear friends, that is enough for me. Think! [[(Applause and cheering from GERB: Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u35	Thank you, dear Mrs. Karayancheva. We continue with speeches. Mr. Manev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Yes, you quoted me correctly and you heard me say that I told the President of the National Assembly Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva: "After you what can I say now? There are a lot of things we've been saving you for a long time, for weeks. There are a lot of things that every person who stands up here from you with a political aplomb and hysteria begins to explain how you lie on the ambrazor to protect democracy, to protect, what was the constitutional order. I'm a MP from Stara Zagora. In Stara Zagora, your chairman said that democracy is interfering with you and has taken you very much. Here the highly respected really gentleman who spoke like that with a great aplomb said that the People's Court was a good thing. I'm not explaining, and I'm quoting exactly. But today I didn't stand up to you to convince you, because I know it's causa perduta, it doesn't make any sense. I went out on the stand to say what I thought and to say it to Bulgarian citizens. And here's what I think. For me, for us, it's not that important here at all, are we going to wear masks, or are we not going to wear masks, are we going to infect each other and so on? We've taken some kind of cross and we'll carry it. But here, from this tribune, there was a talk of what kind of eyes we'd be looking at people with. If one of us gets out here and transfers something, a disease that's deadly to a citizen, someone close to someone, a stranger, then about the eyes and watching what you're going to tell me? Then what will you go out and pour ashes on your head that you don't like to do? But let's just say you're gonna do it out of some conscience. Well, it won't do any good! There will be no Faida out of this! In the end, I want to tell you something human. Come tomorrow, when you get up and look at yourself in the mirror, each of you should ask yourself the question: "If someone I lied to about closing the parliament............ because we don't close it, because the President can call it in, and you can call it in. But politics is more important.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u37	And Boyko.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u38	Yeah, and Boyko can call it in, yeah, and we can call it in. That's normal! [[Applause from GERB.]] Because it's not normal to refuse to open the donation lines like the president refused today, because it's not normal to go on TV and talk about how it's not scary. What's not scary?! It's scary, people are dying! If you want to take a trip to Italy, you will not be allowed, but it is good to watch at least on TV. Now, in order not to go down to your level of politics, again I tell you, tomorrow morning in your mirror ask the question: "Lord, if one of my acquaintances lies in the hospital and his life is on the line, yesterday what nonsense did I say in the National Assembly?Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Manev. - What's the line? Mr. Kutev. [[(GERB's reply:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u40	There's no hurry, colleagues. Go home and rest! Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'll start by saying that the coronavirus is as scary as any virus, and this one, because it's scarier than the others, is a challenge. I don't believe there's anyone in this room that comes out of any other logic than how the most useful thing can be handled. How can we get out of all this trouble that has befallen us so that we can protect both ourselves and the people of the country, which, by the way, is our responsibility precisely because it is a challenge?! These challenges are solved by parliamentaryism, at least according to public development over the last hundreds of years. By the way, in hundreds of years millions of people have died out so that the system of parliamentaryism can be created as it is to guarantee civil rights. Millions of people died for this! This is how civil rights of different groups of citizens are guaranteed. What's the problem, and why do I think we're getting away with it if I try to find the foundation? We get away with it because someone in the state, in this case, the majority and the people who govern it or manage it, I don't know what's more true, but someone actually gave out of control and extreme power to some doctors generals who are certainly great specialists. [[(GERB's line: How can you say that?]] These people have the purpose or task of protecting us from the coronavirus, and they're probably doing it the best they can. I do not understand so much to say whether they are making mistakes in this protection, but other than people who are afraid of the disease, in our society is full of people who are afraid of unemployment, who are afraid of hunger, who are afraid of the bankruptcy of their companies, who are afraid of more things, namely the representation of these people is parliament. When we give power to only one who protects us from the disease, we actually allow the rights of those who may be afraid of the disease to be violated, but are afraid of another, the demigre, or the damage that will be done to the economy with unemployment, with the bankrupt companies, will be just as scary and likely to concern more people than the coronavirus. The role of parliamentaryism, which has been built for hundreds of years to reach its present form, is precisely that it must have defenders of different groups of people. When you give power over an emergency situation to just one person, that is to the defenders of the disease, you are in fact violating everyone else's rights, which does not mean that you are going the best way. My problem isn't whether the opposition will be heard, I don't need any more popularity, I've got mine what I can do. My problem with all of this is that we're actually going to take the country out in a much worse way, because we're only going to keep one interest, and the others are going to be severely damaged. This is what Valeri Zablyanov tells you about. This is exactly the responsibility that you will have to bear in just a few months when those whose interests are affected turn to you and ask you: "What have you done? Today I waited 40 minutes at a checkpoint to get into Sofia. 40 minutes! Not just me, but all the citizens who came in there waited so long, and be assured that the vast majority of these citizens are not sympathetic. More importantly, in the end, I don't know why you're quoting the Constitution very one-sided. Article 64 states that in the event of a war, a military or other emergency which occurred during or after the expiry of the mandate of the National Assembly, the term of its powers shall continue until those circumstances have been dropped. The legislature, who wrote the Constitution, and it is still the most important document in this country, has foreseen that the National Assembly in a republic with parliamentary rule is precisely that body that should not stop working. This is the authority that expresses civil rights. With what you are doing now, de facto by stopping the work of the National Assembly, because it will work from here on at the request of the President, Boyko Borisov or someone else, I do not know who, but stopping the work of the National Assembly, in my opinion, is a serious crime against statehood. And the last thing I want to say is that by destroying statehood in all European countries, because in many European countries this process is going on, it is not only a Bulgarian phenomenon, it will lead to a severe crisis of elites, above all the political elites to which you are currently falling. It's a tough crisis! In just a few months, this breakdown of statehood that you are doing will be on you because you are this country. You are now digging under your own feet and destroying your own political future!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u41	You think of you, don't think of us!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u42	You will probably destroy the future of other political forces, you will probably destroy much of the future of the state with what you will do, because you will bring it into a very severe political crisis in just a few months with your own efforts. There's no Yordan Tsonev here with his fingers on his fingers. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. - What's the line? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Mareshki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Jablyanov, as expected, you didn't find any. I turned to your masculinity to find the strength to announce those who said they existed as media that were some kind of servicer, I couldn't even understand how you explained it, and maybe next time I'll have to turn to femininity. But get to the point. As pragmatists of the Volya parliamentary group, we are happy that only six months have usually taken place, that more, that is, six days after last Friday, in which I explained to you exactly these things, that only Stolipinovo and the Bulgarian Parliament have remained kennels of disease, the problem with Stolipinovo has already been solved and finally found strong powers to decide to observe one of the most important events in relation to the fight against the coronavirus. Because as expected, and today you are just going to waste your time as some bums, I have no intention of participating in another circus. I will therefore conclude my speech and proceed, with the permission of the President, to a declaration on behalf of the Volya Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u45	Wait, Mr. Mareshki. If you've finished your speech, I have to give you the floor for lines, and if there are no lines, I'll give you the floor for a statement. Are there any lines, fellow Members? I can't see. [[Comments from GERB: "He doesn't say anything. "]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Since we have heard some incompetent speeches of the kind here, he does not say anything, I will now say many things and by name I will present them to every one of the MPs in this Chamber, to every one of the ministers, to the President, to every prominent public figure, so that the Bulgarian people and your voters can hear my opinion on this subject. Somewhere in two weeks I have been alarming that in international markets the price of diesel per liter today, yesterday and that day is about 40 cents per liter. The price of the most mass petrol A 95 at the same time varies about 23 . 25 pennies per liter. Not 100 grams, 23 cents a liter! And even respected professors, who have repeatedly gone out in the media to replicate me, the most common one is Mr. Gechev, no one could come out and explain to me how from 23 pennies per pound an international stock price, because it is always said to be a stock price, the state cannot react. Mr. Gechev, at 23 cents on the market, there are still gas stations where the price is above BGN 2. I will also address Cornelia Ninova, and I would very much like to ask you to answer this question, order you to go out to some media and explain how it is done with what overestimates, what taxes, what, and so on, as you best know. In the case of Mr. Zablyanov, I do not expect, I hope, but I do not believe that you will and move on. These days, Prime Minister Borisov quite clearly said that all populist proposals come out from everywhere, but no one says how or by what scheme. Let's give everyone, but how and by what scheme? Now I'm gonna tell you in public. Dear colleagues: a state chain of petrol stations today can support the price of petrol and diesel around BGN 1.50.! You are listening to about 50 pennies lower than what is currently on the mass market in Bulgaria?! This is our proposal and we will provide it in writing to every responsible body and person in the country, we will ask for their opinion and we will then make it public so that everyone of your constituents knows who reacts to such a proposal.... who wants the Bulgarian people to be robbed and who wants us to give the Bulgarian people a chance to continue to exist and not only to develop. Honourable Members, imagine for example [[SIGHS]] ... One of the measures that the government announced today is BGN 40, which usually takes years for all governments, BGN 40. Easter to the most needy. Only with this measure, which is not a one-off, this money is invested and remains as an asset of the state and brings revenue [[SIGHS]] , bring taxes and profit to the state. But what's happening? I want each and every one of you to think about it and articulate it to your constituents. In the presence of such a chain, every Bulgarian citizen, going to the gas station, will earn much more than those 40 leva, which today the state grants to the poorest, because much wiser people have said: "Don't give him fish, but give him a fishing rod and teach him to fish, so that he can have constantly and not give him certain money. Every citizen, besides the money he will save by charging at the state gas station, will buy and use goods and services that are produced to date at the price of this energy source of BGN 1.50 and not BGN 2,00, that is, much cheaper than at the moment, will save a second time from the goods and services that he consumes, and that is all we use. Imagine what savings all companies working will make and what a breath of air we will give to every company in Bulgaria, especially in this difficult situation so that it can be much more competitive! Imagine those companies to which we give this breath and they become, at least by this indicator, the most competitive in Europe, and why not in the whole world!? Yes, there are countries where fuels are subsidised and are much lower, but especially in Europe where and how much higher wages will these companies be able to pay? Imagine the people who receive these higher salaries, entering the neighboring shops and spending money among their fellow citizens and how much consumption will increase in Bulgaria!? Imagine how much more work these companies will do because, becoming more competitive, they will sell much more and will be able to make much bigger exports! Imagine working more, how much more taxes these companies will pay, and paying higher taxes, how much higher pensions the state will be able to pay, how much better roads we will have! Yes, someone here today, perhaps one of the few things that, naturally, in another context said: today, everyone has his own conscience. Yes, but we will make this conscience public and this project, which we propose for the rescue of Bulgarian citizens, for the rescue of the Bulgarian business and for the rescue of the Bulgarian state, will become known what every authority, opposition, president, ombudsman, professors, academics, ordinary citizens think about this topic. Let everyone speak, because everyone is silent. Two weeks in public I ask questions and no one comes out to answer these questions: is there speculation in the trade of fuels, are Bulgarian citizens harmed, is the Bulgarian business killed, is the Bulgarian state destroyed? I leave them to the conscience of each and every one of you. I hope this senseless circus will work if we work, but we create nothing good for people, what we work for... Think about it! That's the only pragmatic proposal I've heard lately. I call on if anyone else has another proposal, let them come out and say: we propose this, this and this... specifically how to have for every Bulgarian citizen, how to save the state! Everything else will be an empty speech, in which we do not see the point of participating. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Bulgarian Rhodolists.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. A statement? Here you go, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u48	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The most appropriate for the present moment is, in my opinion, a great thought: the person who replaces freedom for security is finally losing both of them! is the Bulgarian Parliament sitting during war and plague, and today we are about to be remembered as deserters and cowards. This, the Bulgarian citizens should know, is a well thought-out and orchestrated process started with the entry of colleague Mareshki, dressed in a suit, and continued with political scandals. The purpose of all this was for Bulgarian citizens to disgust themselves, to look at this circus and say: these people do not need them, and today to send the parlamen with applause, because that is how democracies die. Colleagues, you wanted unlimited power and you got it, but you also get unlimited responsibility. What's next? Huge funds in this crisis will be spent without control, rights for which generations of Bulgarians have fought will fall. Our position is clear: the rule of law, because only the law makes us free! Your decision has been made and only God and history will judge us all! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u49	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Speaking, Mr. Budinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I've been living here for some time now in the Bulgarian Parliament. I look at you on the left, I look at you, I listen to you, and I absolutely don't believe my eyes or my ears. Why? First of all, I'd like to congratulate Mrs Cornelia Ninova on nothing else, but at least she's wearing a mask! Why aren't you wearing masks, dear colleagues of BSP? Do you think you're immortal? Why, if you want to work so hard, maybe you're half your group here in the gym? Are you telling the truth, or are we witnessing populism again with your desire? Why do you want the Bulgarian Parliament to work? So you can continue to make false suggestions and allegations that will then be run on questionable websites like false news? On Monday I listened to scary untruths here: masks traded for dozens of levs; shops were closed; what else? Why do you want to create tension in the people and rock the boat that you too are on? Isn't it too scary? Shouldn't we be thinking about people's health instead of using this as cheap political dividends? I told you then and now: let's humble ourselves, let's come to our senses and let's do what people expect of us! This government is currently working very well together with the Crisis Headquarters, being set as an example in Europe and in the world by leaders and people. People around the world say: why do our governments not act as the government does in Bulgaria? [[Applause from GERB.]] We don't want you to congratulate us, we don't want you to do this, but at least be quiet! The situation is very serious and very complicated, so please come to your senses! I would like to say a few more words: I communicate with all kinds of people who are our constituents, Bulgarians. They tell me: why are you not wearing masks in the Bulgarian Parliament? Why are you working? So then this coronavirus isn't scary. You're an example if you work and don't wear masks, then there's no point in us. We're an example right now. We need to unite, unite, and set an example for people with the fact that we're going to shut down like them. That's what people need, that kind of example. Mr. Chairman, may I ask, Mr. Jaburanov... [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria]] I'm sorry, I'm confused, Mr. Zablyanov... Don't scream! There are microphones here, you can talk calmly. You can do it this way and you don't have to yell, we hear you! [[Applause from GERB.]] Thank you. Don't shout from places, be civil! Culturally, colleagues! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Budinov. Are there any lines? I won't. Mr. Zablyanov, come in for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u52	Excuse me, Mr. Zablyanov, lapsus.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u53	Mr. Chairman, dear fellow MPs! When we talk about serious things, I get up not to explain what I think of myself and how affected I am by the theatre performance just now. An actor's game is an actor's game and it can only be applauded or not applauded depends on talent. The question of whether or not we should wear our masks. On several occasions you quoted the Staff, but listen to the Staff, the esteemed officers in the morning Mr. Major General Mutafchiyski explained to the deaf that it is not necessary for healthy Bulgarian citizens to wear masks. Masks carry medics to medical facilities that contact the sick, masks wear those who feel sick and do not want to infect others to prevent, so to speak, the dispersion, as you said in the morning, so it seems to me, Mr. Mutafchiyski, of bodily fluids, so as not to infect others. But healthy people, in a normal environment, even more in their private cars, as I have seen lately, do not need to wear masks. That's my cue to your otherwise good acting. Thank you very much. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u54	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. We continue with the speeches. You have the floor, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u55	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Parliamentary Group of "United Patriarchs" has signed this proposal for a decision and will support it. We will support it with a clear view that we must be more responsible, that we must make it possible to preserve parliamentary democracy. What the BSP is proposing are regular meetings of parliament that will be meaningless, regular meetings, which will finally, when the outbreak of coronavirus, block the work of parliament and then they will say: why did not the majority take adequate measures to prevent the Bulgarian National Assembly from being quarantined? They will say: we lost parliamentary democracy in Bulgaria thanks to the United Patriarchs, GERB and these and these. Now whatever decisions are offered to you, and to the Conference of Presidents, you do not like anything, you are not looking for compromise for anything. You are looking for scandals, you are looking for opposition, you are looking for a way to really block the Bulgarian National Assembly. That's the best you can do! Then you will say, "Behold, see the dictatorship of the government." There is no National Assembly. Who disbanded the National Assembly? I hear here statements from the BSP. MPs speak from the stand false news: the National Assembly was dissolved. Why are you lying to people? There's no such thing! The decision is clear and clear: in all proposed proposals or measures to be taken for the emergency situation, the National Assembly will meet and take its decisions. It is not the National Assembly's place to normally walk and monitor on the streets whether quarantine is observed or not. We're a legislator! It is the executive power that must put in place the relevant measures by law and monitor their implementation. With our presence here in the Chamber, we will not change the measures in any way! How are we going to change them? Perhaps by having to sit here every day in the National Assembly pointlessly to hear your speeches and arguments, and then go back to where I live? In this settlement, more than 50% of the people are over 60 years old and when I go to the store to buy something and take the disease there and these people, for example, are on fire, who will be guilty next? Then you'll hide. I know a lot of BSP politicians think wisely. I know that many members and sympathizers of the BSP also think wisely, but I cannot understand why only those who panic, spread false news, including your leadership, and your chairwoman, who is acting as a yellow newspaper from the platform of parliament. [[Reply from MP Philip Popov.]] What about the dissolution of the National Assembly? Where is it loose, show me? Tsveta Karayancheva disbanded the National Assembly. We have offered you a thousand ways to vote remotely, remote meetings, to gather on certain days to vote, but you are always dissatisfied, you do not like anything. [[Relations from the National Representative Philip Popov.]] The European Parliament may... Mr. Chairman, can you make a remark to Mr. Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u56	I will.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u57	The European Parliament can remotely, but we cannot break the Constitution. So suggest, give us options! You are very smart, give options, say: this is how we want Parliament to work, so that the interests of the people are protected, to protect the security of the people's representatives, to their families, to the employees of the National Assembly. Give me your options! You don't give anything. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It's the truth! That's the truth! Mr. Popov, if you have something to say, say it here from the stands. While you were speaking, I didn't interrupt. We will support these measures because it is really important. It is important that, when it comes to tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, after a week, something extraordinary tabled by the Council of Ministers or tabled by the parliamentary groups, which concerns the crisis, can be called the National Assembly and adopt these decisions so that they can be implemented. That's what's important! We must ensure that we can make decisions, and you propose that we do not guarantee security so that we cannot make decisions. That's what you're suggesting. You're suggesting that we stay 240 people inside each other, and give the opportunity, for example, to kill everyone. It's okay. Let him kill us. But when it hits us, we can't get together to vote on any measure. And then you'll say: but pensioners don't have extra money for the crisis, workers don't have extra money for the crisis. What kind of measures... We can't vote for business to support it. Why? Because BSP wants to make Parliament not functioning, a bigger crisis. That's the point. If anyone doesn't understand, that's the point! [[Private applause from GERB.]] I don't understand anything else. I hear: the bought media, the controlled media. Well, you're on these media every day. Who stopped you? Each position of BSP or MPs from BSP or from the management of BSP are on all media and say their positions. Who are the controlled media? I can ask a speaker? Let him say it. Hybrid sites that spread fake news, or other media? Who are they? List them if these media are paid and controlled. We know for sure that each one of us is a public secret that there are media in Bulgaria perhaps with a certain inclination left, right and so on. And why are you on these media if they are paid only by the majority or work only for the majority? Why are you fooling people all the time? I hoped when we voted on the state of emergency that Parliament had indeed found unity on such an important issue for the state. And here someone is quoting for security, for democracy some nonsense. We don't do it for security, we do it for people's health. To the elderly! To the elderly, with whom you constantly speculate, with their interests in general. Now the majority in parliament wants to protect exactly the elderly, whom this virus is killing, who people can lose their lives. That's what we want to do, we don't want anything else. The easiest thing is for the state to move forward, for everyone to work, for there are no restrictions. Whoever survives survives! Someone asks: after three months, people will call you, why do they have no money, why do they have no wages, why are they out of a job? It is better for this account to come to me than for them to call me to account why thousands or tens of thousands of Bulgarians died? This bill better be looking for me! I prefer it! And who will call you to account for the populism and the lies you tell?! Nobody! You will say: we are not ruling. They're the ones who make the decisions. We're just talking. Well, find a way, find a way, people. Let's get together for real. [[(Reply from the BSP for Bulgaria: Where to gather?]] Say this, this, this! Something normal, something real that can work. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Why are you doing this? Why are you making these circuses? It's in the interests of all the people, of all the citizens. Once again, you were talking about the voters. But we don't do it for the voters, we do it for the people, and you only look at things for the voters, for the PR and for the ratings. I don't care about my political rating. I don't care about my party right now. I am interested in how we can make fewer people suffer, how all together I do not exclude you from this work, you exclude yourself.. We can make it so that we can restore the state after that! How can we relieve people?! How can we cooperate with people?! And can't we, including when we're not in a meeting, in our communities where we live, help people with what we can? [[Replies from "BSP for Bulgaria": "You will infect them!"]] That's what we better do about volunteering. Let's go and help with the funds, whether with materials, provided with food, provided with logistics, to the people who are currently under quarantine because they are tens of thousands. This is what we can do, and I think I will do more work this way than listen to crazy speeches with lies that are drawn from the left of the Chamber. I will stress again, I respect many colleagues from BSP, and I also respect their members and sympathizers in places I know. But the question is: why do you do this, certain people from BSP? Why do you want panic to slide among the people, lies to be among the people? Why do you really want people because the statements hint, but carefully hint, because right now it may not be popular to talk about the measures, kind of, that somehow this infection is not dangerous? You come out of some kind of statement, why we take these measures, but slightly veiled, right, so that people can hear both of them, and that they like both sides. Nobody does that. The whole world does. Is America a smaller democracy? Is France a smaller democracy? Is Spain a smaller democracy? Isn't Russia a democracy?! All countries take measures and take them after us. Ours may not be the best, surely there may be mistakes, because no one has ever faced such a situation in the whole world, and Bulgaria included. There are certainly mistakes. I know mistakes, and I know things that I can say, which I've seen with my own eyes, but I'm not doing it for anything else, but because I don't want to add to the situation right now. I'll give an example: I can tell my view on one of the problems with checkpoints. You spoke about martial law a few moments ago. You were hinting about the army again. There's no army. Why did the checkpoints work slowly? Well, because if the army were there, they'd work twice or three times faster at the checkpoint. But they're not releasing the army right now, which is exactly why you shouldn't start speculating about it. What will prevent you from the military crossings from helping the police move people to work faster or to their home? If they were, it would be different. I'll say my view for the checkpoints in Sofia and Sofia district. It is nice to be limited to the district towns, but the district of Sofia is Sofia. At the moment, the people of Sofia region are putting up with restrictions that should not be tolerated. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Where's the district center? I'm telling you where the district administration is. The district structures of Sofia district are in Sofia. But not a district city really administrative, but all the institutions that are in Sofia-district are in Sofia-city. Better, if these checkpoints and so on can be done in the territory of Sofia-district with other areas, so that really Sofia-city and Sofia-district can connect to tens of thousands, if not more people who enter, work or go to hospitals and clinics. They'll go by again, only they'll wait hours. Here, for example, you can think about this. You can give your views on any such problem how to improve it? It may not be ideal, but give examples of how to improve it. Give, say this and do this. I think neither the Staff, nor the Council of Ministers, nor the Prime Minister, nor any of the majority, if you offer something really important, essential that will help, none of us will reject it. On the contrary, we will support him and stand behind him. In this crisis, we must help each other, think and offer solutions. That is what we should do, not lie and manipulate people in terms of political dividends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u58	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. - What's the line? [[National Representative Philip Popov wants the floor for a personal explanation.]] Were you mentioned by name and in person?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u59	I mentioned it because you were calling from the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u60	Twice, okay. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm making a personal explanation. My fellow Members, it is a pity that you do not appreciate the responsibility and height that you should have in this crisis in your capacity as MPs. Because in a parliamentary republic the National Assembly body stands highest and at the moment the whole of Bulgaria is looking at us as they say. What kind of example do you, honourable MPs... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u62	Mr. Popov, I'll pay attention to you! Please enter into a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u63	That's my personal explanation, because it's explained...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u64	...what they said about you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u65	...from here, from this tribune, that I'm wrong. And now I'm motivated, dear Mr. Chairman. The National Assembly, a fellow Member, is the most representative body in a parliamentary state. The National Assembly is a guarantor of democracy, a guarantor against arbitrariness, a guarantor of the rule of law and the rule of law, because, honourable colleague, and the most well-meaning despot who sees himself as a shepherd, demands again from the people obedience as sheep. [[GERB lines.]] The National Assembly, an honourable colleague, is a guarantor against such an arbitrariness.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u66	Mr. Popov, I've given you enough time to make an introduction to your personal explanation, but you're stubbornly deviating from the personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u67	Give me a chance to finish my sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u68	It's already been a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u69	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, honourable Member! You said everyone should help in whatever way they can. The National Assembly is its function, and our Constitution has placed it at the heart of the functioning of the state: to seek a path, to seek solutions, not to abdicate. Because the National Assembly is a symbol above all else. How will you perform that inscription of the National Assembly "The Unity Makes the Force?" From your homes? On the Internet?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u70	[[OP, from place]] : This is not a personal explanation. That's a statement. PHILIPP POPOV: Is this your meaning of the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u71	Dear Mr. Popov! Thank you, dear Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u72	You do not understand the meaning of the National Assembly and its functioning! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u73	Mr. Popov, I will allow myself to draw your attention to you: I know that you know the Rules well, and I do not need to explain it to you. In this case, excuse me, you've distorted the very personal explanation. You just made a statement. Dear Mr. Gajev, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u74	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm taking this statement from the debate. I would like to start with the first, basically and most importantly: Parliament must continue its work. It is a supreme authority in the Republic of Bulgaria. And by this decision he continued his work no matter what was said so far. I would like to read the first point: During the introduced state of emergency, the National Assembly shall hold plenary meetings on bills and drafts of acts relating to the declared state of emergency. Similarly, the measure introduced in the French National Assembly is similar in both Spanish and Italian. I would just like to point out that the United Kingdom has been shutting down the House of Representatives for a week now. If we have to follow the logic of some of the speakers' thoughts, the cradle of democracy in Europe is the countries with the greatest tyranny, obviously, if you are right, because these countries have adopted their measures. However, this does not cancel the role of the Bulgarian Parliament to meet. I would like to draw your attention here to the fact that at any moment you can convene a meeting of the National Assembly. On Monday during the veto we discussed, the BSP said you have your alternative and your proposed draft laws for resolving measures for business, for the economy, for social policy during the state of emergency. Well, if you have such measures, there's nothing to prevent you from bringing them in and asking for an emergency meeting. The question is, do you have such measures? I doubt you do. And you're just gonna prove that. Here I would also like to draw attention to some of the speakers who explained how it almost went to a regime, to a dictatorship, to a regime of decrees and so on, forms known by history. I just want to ask: then why did you cancel your election meetings? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Why did you cancel your election as chairman and choose until further notice? Sorry, you're becoming a bit of a dictatorship. Do not transfer your rest to the state. [[Replicates from BSP for Bulgaria."]] Answer when asked. Answer me! Answer why you stopped and this happened long before the state of emergency was introduced. However, Parliament is also continuing with its main function of parliamentary control over the executive power. By the way, the Dutch Parliament is fully in writing. Yeah, it's possible there. By the way, I would like to point out that they also went completely to remote meetings and a remote vote in the Finnish Parliament. There the legislation and the Constitution allow them to do so, with us no, so it is not possible here, at least in my opinion. As for parliamentary control. There is one thing here that you are missing out on the committees continue to sit. You may ask at any time, including us, to listen to the ministers, to listen to how the measures are being implemented, to receive up-to-date information. This is extremely important for our work as MPs to have up-to-date information about what is happening in the country, and we can always get it through committees, through parliamentary control. The only thing that changes in parliamentary control is Friday's control to be broadcast directly on television. Well, I'm sorry, it's just gonna be written now. I am sorry from the point of view that the stands will not be able to be used to give on television and to hear more clearly the problems posed. Of course, we need to exercise a little responsibility. The only and fundamental thing that should lead us as MPs is that we should not transfer our responsibility to other authorities, we should continue to carry out our duties and be responsible to hold from here on and meetings where necessary, and control, especially of the executive power, and continue with the legislative process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u75	Thank you, dear Mr. Gadget. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u76	Madam President, Mr. Gajev, you have touched on the topic of democracy and dictatorship, but I think you should have explained to the MPs, to all Bulgarian citizens, to the people, for example, BSP politicians who praise and defend dictatorships of the Soviet Union, Yugoslavia, the former communist regime in Bulgaria, where Bulgarian minorities have been massacred and persecuted, they are praising them, at the moment they say: democracy has been replaced by dictatorship, but, no, we do not want dictatorship at the place of democracy. You're the ones from BSP, Mr. Gajev, and it's nice to develop it and say you're the ones who praised the dictatorial regimes of the past. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u77	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Second line? I can't see. Mr. Gadget, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Angelov, it has shown a little bit of the electoral approach here by some of our colleagues who, by praising democracy, always strive more for dictatorship and rather their dictatorship remains always in the subconscious. Because there is another question here, too, last year, when two parliamentary sessions separated themselves from parliament, it was not a problem for democracy when they went to vacation, as it became popular. We now have a problem that they will have to carry out their duties in the same way as they do so far, only that the meetings will be mainly on topics that concern the state of emergency. They will be, as I said at the moment, can always bring in tomorrow, including the National Assembly, to meet on texts that they want to discuss, but it is not the question here whether they are really interested in democracy in Bulgaria, but simply a matter of trying to accumulate political PR.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u79	Thank you, dear Mr. Gadget. Any other speeches? Mr. Zarkov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! They have been trying for several hours to convince us and the Bulgarian citizens that, if you see, the great danger for the spread of the coronavirus disease in Bulgaria comes from the parliament and that if we disband here, the disease will stop if we stand, the disease will spread. Never have so many stories been spoken to present fear as some kind of responsibility and abdication as courage. With your decision you offer us to abdicate from our duties, to hide from what we have to do, and we have a lot of things, although most of the speakers before me seemed unaware of exactly what Parliament had to do. When we voted a few weeks ago on a state of emergency, we voted on a constitutionally established procedure which calls on this assembly to adopt the laws imposed by limiting citizens' rights and freedoms. And only this meeting can take the necessary measures.. not the minister, not the first headquarters, not the second headquarters, not the primacy, not another institution.... only this meeting. Disband it and you can no longer legally take such measures. From the constitutional emergency you are today proposing that we go to a literal out of order, out of constitutional order. And what happens in just a few weeks? Measures were taken, powers were given, headquarters were set up, and at the same time there is no court to control. Now there will be no parliament to control. For the state of the media, I refer you to the graphics of Reporters without border. Who will control this power at this time? And let's say the argument of infection doesn't make sense to control them, because, you see, we can get infected and spread... If one of us gets infected, what do others do? And what does the Ministry of Interior do when an officer becomes infected? What do hospitals do when there's an infected doctor closing? What does the army do when there's an infected soldier relaxing? Ladies and gentlemen, as Parliament, we have responsibilities in the forthcoming crisis and it is linked to measures to overcome it. Hiding will not help anyone, because what you are doing is you hiding yourself, not showing courage, not being responsible. By the way, we are a member, Madam President, of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Yesterday, its President made a call to all Member States and parliaments, calling on countries to fight this disease, respecting people's rights and defending the authority of parliaments. I don't see how our behavior fits at this point. Parliament has a role to play. There are legislative activities to be done. One of them will be to correct that non-feal law that you rushed last week because it's already raining letters from lawyers, from different affected industries, that everything is not done like people. Ladies and gentlemen, every legal act and the Constitution has a letter, there is a spirit. In the Bulgarian Constitution the letter and spirit are contained together in art. 1, para. 1. Bulgaria has parliamentary governance, without parliament there can be no governance, at least it is not legitimate and I do not see how the suspension of the Constitution will help us fight the coronavirus. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u81	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u82	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! There were heard as well as the previous days, quite dramatic speeches, including the suspension of the Constitution, which is obviously not true, is not a fact. At times like this, it's good to talk basic facts. There are many truths in this room, but the facts are more important than the truth. These are different things. There's talk of disbanding parliament. There's no disbanding parliament. And that needs to be made very clear. You can call a meeting tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u83	Are you coming?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u84	Of course I'll come. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That depends on your conscience, too. If you're going to call Parliament for pointless things that you're willing to do, we'll probably all come here and look at what you've suggested. Another question is how much it would make sense. I hope you do not abuse this right of yours, but this right of yours proves that no parliament is disbanded. Nothing's loose. You can't control me whether you speak from this tribune, or you speak from "Positano" 20, or where you find it well, no one will limit your opinion. In this crisis, I said last time, it is very important that we demonstrate calmness and not live in the condition we lived before. Not to mention that after this crisis, the other crisis will come, and you said it was economic, financial maybe, social maybe. If parliament is working in this state of emergency, as it was before it, what are we going to see? We're going to look at laws that are made in another environment. If you remember, just a month or two ago in this Parliament, we were debating things that seem most likely insignificant to us right now, because it's another landscape, another situation. Quarantine has good points. We can lock ourselves up at home and think about our own mistakes and even our own bullshit. Any one of us can do it, and I urge you to do it. Let's see... [[Reply from Valeri Zablyanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u85	Mr. Zablyanov, you're starting to... Please! Excuse me, Mr. Bikov. The call from the scene wasn't just a violation of the regulations. You understand exactly what I'm saying, please, Mr. Zablyanov. Go ahead, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u86	Let's see what we can change, and this is also a job, if you will, and in the laws that are already approved at first reading, which we are about to submit, which are drawn up in a completely different situation. Are they the right legislative proposal in the current situation? This is also a matter of work. We must prepare ourselves for what is to come after the state of emergency, which, believe me, will end. No one told you there'd be a state of emergency for ten years. The sooner it's over, the better for us. No party wants to bear the responsibility alone at such times, and that is why it is our call from March 13th and to the day we have to bear that responsibility together. There's no point in this debate right now like this. There is no point, because, again, you can call a meeting of parliament tomorrow as long as you have something to say as long as you have something to offer, because three days ago, when we were debating here, you talked about the lack of social measures, of any measures. There's gonna be more in there the other day. Take your time! I'll tell you again: you're too feverish in this complicated situation. Calm down. Go home. Gather round. Get back to yourself. Be calm. I don't want to be Kashpirowski, but you obviously need this, too. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Be responsible. Act accordingly to the situation and to what people expect of us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u87	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. - What's the line? Mr. Nikolov, you have a word for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u88	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Bikov, I would like to make this line and note to you that you absolutely rightly said that, in reality, we do not suspend the Constitution or disband the National Assembly. The most I can say is this: we are trying to stop, as the people have said. The most interesting thing in this case is that next week, perhaps on our initiative, the National Assembly will be convened because we need to look at the Law amending the Energy Act so that we can return the money that Bulgargas will receive from Gazprom Export. This is one of the things we need to look at is also important for the business that is waiting for a breath of air. Most likely on our initiative, and perhaps on a common one, I will also thank the opposition for meeting next week. I hope that the President has already spoken to her about calling the National Assembly so that we can examine this bill. That's the irony of it all. [[Reply by National Representative Christian Vigenin.]] That is, we show when it is necessary for the National Assembly to be convened because there are bills that can wait, God willing to end this situation faster, this state of emergency, so that Parliament can continue its normal functioning. We are not in a normal environment yes, this Parliament has met and during martial law, it was part of the decisions the state was supposed to take, but at this moment, right, the National Assembly can become an incubator and endanger all areas of Bulgaria because we are elected from all regions of the country. It can really become a big problem, that is, we can jeopardize people's lives. It is therefore necessary to look for options for our rarer collection when the situation is urgent, i.e. to adopt extraordinary solutions, extraordinary legislation. So we're not closing parliament, Mr. Bikov, you're absolutely right. You can develop that in the end we will be the initiators of the convening of the National Assembly. Thank you. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u89	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. Mr. Bikoff, you don't want the back. Mr. Mareshki's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u90	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I propose to increase the time of the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u91	It's already been increased, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u92	Look, I know that I'm in the middle of it, but we're in a state of emergency, and I think we can make an extraordinary decision to increase it further, obviously, that today a lot of people are willing to show themselves to the cameras. We didn't hear anything meaningful so far, and now I'm gonna start repeating myself. Therefore, we offer additional 20 minutes to each parliamentary represented force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u93	One hour at a time!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u94	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. I apologize, but I couldn't have taken this step for explainable reasons. Mr. Nenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! When the problem of the outbreak in China began, and when all the specialists in the topic were predicting, and leaders that, you see, the world would change its ways that it had so far, and such values that have already been mentioned several times before, to tell you honestly, and I did not believe that this would happen. Somehow I may have underestimated or I wish I didn't believe that was possible. But you see right now that the most developed democracies, the Western world, where you could travel freely, work, move all these values, in so many years have lost their lives to achieve them, have changed. And they changed in an instant! The most developed countries have resorted to extreme measures. Today I took the trouble in a program to see how many planes are flying over Europe. You will see that there are actually 200 planes flying over the entire continent. That never was. Colleagues, in my opinion, you only want to bear some responsibility. I'll tell you why. On Monday, when we were discussing the Emergency Act, and then I told you that you missed your chance on the 13th, Friday, that was the moment when we all had to speak in one voice because we were swimming in the same boat and because it was in the name of the welfare of the state, in the name of the health of the people and in no other name. Threats of martial law, emergency regulations, the fact that human rights are being revoked, do not rest on any logic. I repeat, all the most developed countries do. You know what makes an impression on me? I read in Spain yesterday, in Italy, where are the most severe cases where there is the highest mortality rate of those infected with coronavirus, even a special attention was paid to the news from yesterday that opposition parties are very careful there, without any unnecessary attack on the government. Why? Because they're solidarity because they've realized that now is not the time to play government and opposition. The responsibility ultimately lies with the one who rules. The time will come for economics, for social problems then and most likely GERB will be the party that will have to take this hit in one, in two, in three months. God forbid in two or three weeks, not after such a long period of time. But anyway, GERB, the government that is currently ruling, and the governments that are ruling in all those countries that we have already mentioned, will take this blow and there is no way to get a political dividend out of it! But we have accepted, and that is the cross of the rulers at the moment is major to bring countries out of this difficult moment, and nothing more! I will also address Mr. Zarkov, as he spoke about human rights a moment ago, human rights is a comprehensive concept and does not only define his free passage from point A to point B, it defines his right to life, to healthcare. All measures are directed exactly that way to preserve its health so that fewer people can suffer and minimally die from this virus. Instead of all of us being together and Bulgaria being referred to as an example because it is one of the first countries to impose such serious measures... Yesterday you saw General Mutafchiyski, when he showed Belgium's chart, at the same time how the outbreak started in both countries, and how it went headlong up, and how our curve was going, but at a very slow pace, so that our health workers, our hospitals could take on such cases. [[a line from the National Representative Alexander Pawnov]] , in order not to have this mortality as is happening in other countries. In Italy, which is led by one of the best health systems.. what, 600-700-800 people die a day. Is that the point? But you, colleagues, do not want to be held responsible, first because you abdicated on Friday 13th, just did not go against the introduction of a state of emergency, but in the coming days you re-entered your role. [[Radio, lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The President, in the same way, at the beginning, goes to report to him what the measures are, with all his ministers, with the Prime Minister, if you will, and what he did and he abdicates. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You don't want to be held responsible. That's the truth. You're just looking for some kind of political dividend. As for the National Assembly and its work, I can assure you that I and my colleagues have never, ever been of the opinion that Parliament should stop working. However, what is important must work, I do not think that the Armed Forces Bill, which has been on the agenda, is currently so important, given that it is a difficult law and it has probably been debated for more than a year. I don't think this is the right time for this bill. However, as far as subjects related to the state of emergency are concerned, economic, social measures, possibly if something needs to be changed under this law, yes, Parliament must be here and carry, if you will, health risk. But I'm afraid I'm a parent, I have close friends, I don't want to be the reason. I'm not afraid for myself I'm young enough to assume that statistics should make it easier to get it out, but I'm also afraid of the people I communicate with outside this room. Everyone must accept it as a mission, if you will, not let it be us who cause people to suffer. Colleagues, I pray you, before we are MPs, we are people, we need to think from this point of view. We have to show an example to society, we have to show common sense. This is not the time to play the opposition and ruling because of the responsibility that Julian Angelov said was the right thing to do: we are the ones who have to bear this cross if it will and politically then bring us damage. First we have to think about the citizens. History will then decide whether the current government, whether all the MPs who are here have contributed to the crisis as lightly as possible. Everything else is a controversy that doesn't make any sense at this point. Thank you. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u96	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u97	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I have listened carefully to all the things that have begun to repeat. But I'm going to say something that might piss off some people in this room right now, it doesn't matter who gets angry or who doesn't. What the BSP colleagues talked about, two thirds or at least three quarters is true about both democracy and threats! But this, colleagues, is just a theory. And it will remain a theory whose values will be seen once this crisis is over. Now we are faced with a gulf, it is called a pandemic, and we must think only of concrete measures. Risking repeating colleague Lachezar Ivanov and colleague Mareshki, we can become a nursery of this disease, coming from all over the country, communicating with different people, with different groups. I'm not sure I think Mr. Mareshki said that if they now do a study of the entire parliament, there will be no virus carriers. There will surely be at least three or four. So it doesn't make sense. Mr. Chairman, under the Rules of the National Assembly, I cannot ask for an end to the debate, but I call on all Members to stop this debate. The colleagues of the BSP on the Constitution have the right to convene the National Assembly whenever they want, with 48 signatures we will all come. But sitting here all the time, I think it's not only pointless, it's also too dangerous. That is why we, the four independent MPs from "Attack" will vote on this proposal with a clear conscience that we are doing something good. I think that against the backdrop of developments in the European Union, at all in modern countries, including Russia, which is also a modern and democratic state, everyone is taking such restrictive measures and we cannot be left behind. Borisov and this time ahead of events with his instinct, he didn't even think about it... purely instinctively immediately took measures, and this, of course, he does it not once and is therefore in power. There is something special about instinct and reason that is focused on a place that doesn't happen, but it does. We just have to go the way we're all going, we're a step ahead of others! And if the thesis comes that summer will destroy this pandemic, we'll get out of it without any big problems. There's no need for a theory right now. There's no need for practice. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u98	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov. - What's the line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! The debate we are having is a continuation of the debate by at least a few presidential councils and I want to introduce the Bulgarian citizens to them, I address them through the media, with this debate at the Conference of Presidents, where the National Assembly, the parliamentary parties, tried to find consensus on the way in which the National Assembly should work under conditions of emergency and under such a severe pandemic crisis. It was obvious that the National Assembly could not work as it is currently working. It is obvious for the whole of Bulgaria, it is obvious for the medics who are in this room and for the medics who are outside this room. It is also obvious that the National Assembly should work! It is obvious that the National Assembly is the body that must ensure the constitutional order in the country. It is obvious that the National Assembly must exercise parliamentary control over the actions of the executive, all the more so in these conditions of extraordinary powers that the executive has. Dear Bulgarian citizens, we did not find this consensus! I dare say we did not find it because of the position of the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party. I'm gonna be very honest, and I'm not gonna attack anyone. They are entitled to such a position, but we have an obligation to tell the truth before you. Citing the Constitution, I will say by which members, the leadership of the BSP parliamentary group rejected all offers of overtime work at the National Assembly. Those proposals were many: from a remote vote, through a vote of a signature, each MP with a signature, through meetings to be held in reduced composition, through a special schedule of meetings, through a special order which laws to be adopted and which not and many others. The argument was always constitutional. Let's turn to the Constitution then. Article 74 says: The National Assembly is a permanent functioning body. It only determines the time during which it does not meet. This is what we must do in the face of this crisis! Because here again was put by colleagues from the left, the question, and specifically to my party, a Movement for Rights and Freedoms, what rights and freedoms are we defending now? The first and fundamental human right is the right to life! [[Applause from GERB, DPS and OP.]] Before that right, all other rights have secondary meaning. We currently do not guarantee the right to life either to the MPs or to the people we contact or in any way give an example that we respect the requirements of everyone else. You do understand that at the moment because of the pandemic, because of the danger to the lives of thousands, hundreds of thousands of citizens around the world, basic human rights are temporarily suspended, the right to free movement, the right to free expression on certain subjects, the right to work even. If so, we must now proclaim that our main task is to guarantee the right to life. [[Replicates from the BSP for Bulgaria "How do you guarantee the right to live?"]] The right to life is guaranteed to answer you by not endangering it, first. The doctors say we're endangering him. Become a doctor from parliament and tell me that's not true! We, fellow Members, have been playing heroes and immortals for 20 days in this room. [[(Replicates from BSP for Bulgaria]] The right to life of those with whom we meet, whether it be or not. However, I respond for the last time to the calls from the Chamber because I listened to you, without yelling at anyone, and so did my colleagues. I urge you to be so polite to do the same! Not that I'm afraid or afraid to answer, you're just interrupting the normal debate. The National Assembly must continue to work! That's obvious. The second obvious thing is that the National Assembly must stop working on this order it is working on. That's obvious, too. We have proposed remotely, as the European Parliament works, we have proposed to work from our offices, we have proposed to vote from our offices. There are shorthands, so I allow myself to say these things. There are shorthands from meetings of the Conference of Presidents. The arguments against this are contained in art. 81 of the Constitution. This is what BSP colleagues at BSP say, in fact, it is, and so it is, it is true in the National Assembly, the vote is personal and obvious, says para. 3, para. 1 says that he accepts his acts when more than half of the MPs are present. Here we have three words to interpret. It is not our job to interpret the Constitution, it is the work of the Constitutional Court. I have always believed that the interpretation of the Constitution by the National Assembly is the exercise of powers of another body, but . are present!........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Where it is said that they are present in the Chamber, if we have to interpret the situation. Where's it said? Because my esteemed Mr. Zarkov my respects, Mr. Zarkov said it was about the letter and the spirit of the Constitution. Yes, the letter is: "They are present" and "vote in person and openly." What, though, is the spirit? Can I vote personally and clearly if I vote from my office in the National Assembly, where I am isolated and alone? I can, of course, see me all, it's me. There are electronic ways to vote through a platform with a personal signature e-mail, and so on. But even if it isn't, you can sign a vote on this more personally and clearly not! As they say, there are graphology reports if anyone contests this vote. If we are present here in the Chamber, or I am present in my office, I vote from there and participate in the work of the National Assembly, I do not think that anyone can challenge the word.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So much for these three words, which were an argument not to accept another order of work of the National Assembly. And if we could interpret the Constitution and these provisions extended in favour of this emergency situation, in favour of setting an example, in favour of meeting what the medical staff, which everyone in the world is asking for, and we meeting it, might have had opportunities to interpret and expand. For me, the truth is different. The presence of this tribune is not considered, although no one will recognise it only as debt, but it is also considered an opportunity at any moment to fight an election battle for the voter. How morally this is in the context of such a crisis, I will leave it to you Bulgarian citizens to judge. But I will say categorically that I personally think that these are the ulterior motives of colleagues from Left. [[Applause from GERB, DPS and OP.]] And in order not to offend them, I'll argue. Here we have heard a lot of nonsense from the point of view of your health, of your economic and social situation today, Bulgarian citizens, in the conditions in which the several-day debate on the laws, on the decisions, on the proposals took place. Here it even came to attack by a colleague who is somehow credoing it, when it gets hot, to start talking about communism and the guilt of the BSP as the successor of the Communist Party and, of course, the reaction of certain colleagues from this party. Something absolutely insane, pointless, not to mention immoral! There were many suggestions that, if you ask why they were made, they certainly couldn't answer you. At the very least, because I would like to recall any proposal that implies expenditure of budget funds must be made or must receive the consent and the relevant act of the executive. Dear Bulgarian citizens, the MPs have the right to legislative initiative on all matters of existence. They are not entitled to just one question on the issue of the state budget. Do you know why? That's what the Constitution ordered! Because the state budget is drawn up and implemented by the executive power all over the world! Hers is the responsibility for the bad budget, and hers are the laurels for the good budget. There have been hundreds of proposals here that did not have any justification in the state budget, for which the government does not wish to submit such a budget, for which it is responsible, but what is the point of debating hundreds of proposals that are not our prerogative? Because we from the DPS, our colleagues from the left, the people of this parliament have sent us to be opposition to Vox populi vox Dei! Others are responsible for what budget they make, how they deal with the situation, what money they spend and how much, and what measures to deal with the economic crisis. We cannot abdicate from our social and economic responsibility, but we need to understand what we are proposing and what the resources are to implement it, we, as MPs who are proposing a measure. In conclusion, let me say: if one of the options of the National Assembly were adopted, let us not stand here in this way, because with 5 masks, chess set, and with someone passing 15 minutes to clean the surfaces or that there are disinfectants at the entrance, we cannot fool anyone that this is a measure. Can I just ask you how many of you traveled today from the country to here? Certainly over a hundred co-workers. Is it forbidden for other Bulgarian citizens to travel, except as a last resort? Yeah. The work of the National Assembly is such a case. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]] I accept that, there is no doubt. But we can work in conditions where we can strive to follow the instructions given to all Bulgarian citizens without stopping working. And the most untrue thing with this will end, the most false thing that is said by this tribune, here again I address the Bulgarian citizens a lie, not false, but a lie is that the Bulgarian Parliament stops working with this decision. An honest lie! [[Applause from GERB, DPS and OP.]] The Bulgarian Parliament will continue to work under the conditions of this severe crisis. The Bulgarian Parliament will continue to carry out its legislative functions on the specific measures concerning this crisis. Because it's the country's legislative authority. In the Bulgarian Parliament, his committees will continue to work, which have the opportunity to work in a large hall, diluted 20 people, in full compliance with the measures. The Bulgarian Parliament will continue to be ready, according to the Constitution and the Rules, to be convened at any time when the situation in the country requires it. But also the Bulgarian Parliament will do everything we ask of you, Bulgarian citizens, such as limiting certain rights, certain freedoms, so that we can preserve everyone and get out of this crisis quickly! Finally, I turn on behalf of the parliamentary group of the "Movement for Rights and Freedoms" with extreme gratitude, with curtsy and bow before the medics who are really on the front line, before the police, before the military, in front of all those who are at this moment fighting for the lives of our sick fellow citizens who are trying to comply with the order and limit the spread of the disease. And let me tell you, we're gonna keep working, but we're not gonna be heroes. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB, DPS and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u100	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Line, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u101	I'm out.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u102	You're giving up the line. We continue with the speeches. Mrs. Ninova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u103	Dear Bulgarian citizens, [[Laughter at GERB]] I have been addressing you for four years, as I usually do, and some of my colleagues have thought of this address today. Dear Bulgarian citizens, you must have heard from this tribune many times that it is a historic moment, historical speeches and historical words. There must have been a reason in this some time, sometimes not, but we think it's really a historic moment today. Today, whatever our political opponents or MPs with different views say, the parliamentary republic is temporarily repealed and suspended the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Three days wiped out 29 years of existence and implementation of the Bulgarian Constitution. Three days, which are going like this: yesterday the government of Borisov offered as compensation for the crisis of Bulgarian citizens only life on credit, money through credit, work through credit, life on credit gave you yesterday. Today you were granted quarantine leave, there was such a statement, tomorrow the dictatorship is in effect. These are the three days that change Bulgaria for months ahead of life of credit, freedom under quarantine and dictatorship in action. The emergency situation is not a reason to stop functioning the state and these measures, which are presented to us here today as lifesaving, are not imposed either by the Headquarters, the first one, respect for them, nor by the second one of the Headquarters, also respect for the medics, not even by parliamentary groups, parties or MPs. We all know who's behind this. Who for ten years imposes dictatorship as a method of government and finally succeeds?! [[(Noise, lines and ……]] There are pointed out reasons, organizational and technical, there are no windows, no air, no distance from each other. Is it so difficult, dear rulers, to provide a huge hall in which to stand five meters apart and have windows and ventilation? The reason being pointed out is organizational and technical.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u104	You do it!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u105	You yourself disprove it by saying that the committees will gather and work off each other. So the committees can, but the MPs in the room can't. You've disproved yourself. The technical solution is easy, it is only an excuse. The reason you're doing this is because of something else. The motives in which you put on your proposal are concerns about people's health. There is hardly anyone in Bulgaria doubt that we are all concerned about the situation, that we call for reason, calmness and solutions to help Bulgarian citizens. That is why we supported the state of emergency, but if we really care about people's health in the first place, we should not abdicate and hide in our homes now. Today, instead of a decision to close parliament, we had to look at a proposal for private hospitals to align themselves with municipal and state-owned companies and not to be commercial companies.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u106	This thing was decided by the Minister's order.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u107	And that would have helped people's health. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Today we were going to decide how hospitals without patients and are not being paid right now on clinical pathways and are about to go bankrupt, how to decide by law today to save them in order to help people's health.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u108	Solve it!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u109	That's how we'd help them, not by hiding in our homes. You want to help people's health as motivation good. Perhaps the Prime Minister was supposed to be here today and present an update of the budget, not continue to distribute the millions single. [[(Comments from GERB:.. Unleash ……]] I've been saying this as an element of practice for the last ten years. In order to help the health and life of the people here today, if necessary and at a closed session, they had to, by not wanting, we, the National Assembly, unblock the state reserve and distribute to people, doctors and pharmacies masks, protective clothing, gloves and everything necessary. [[GERB's noise and lines]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u110	Colleagues, please! I'm gonna have to ask for some peace of mind again. I'm using the word exactly.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u111	That's what we had to do today if you want to help people's health. If you wanted to protect them from future unpleasant consequences for them. The Patriots, instead of giving speeches against BSP today, had to submit a proposal to the minimum pension to finally become BGN 350, [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria (BGSP for Bulgaria))]] Because in a month's time these people will have to pay their bills, pay their loans, serve their homes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u112	They always pay them, dear Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u113	That's what you were supposed to do today, not press the button, run and hide at home. This would be the real concern for the Bulgarian people. You're saying that you need time to rethink the laws that, you see, at this point were not relevant, we still have to rethink them during this time to lie home and come back with a new thought?! Dear colleagues, I think that even for the short time of the disease we are in, the danger and the crisis have proved BSP's right for four years we have been trying to draw attention to your attention and some of the things I have pointed out. We don't need to rethink whether hospitals should be commercial companies anymore. We do not need to rethink whether the retail chains are currently overestimating, which is speculation on the market.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u114	Don't talk about the overestimates, because the President sent them back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u115	Four years ago, four years ago, we were fighting this trade chain law. Why did you have to go through a crisis...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u116	Enough with the chain of commerce!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u117	Mr. Ivanov, please. Please, Mr. Ivanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u118	...why did it have to be in danger, why did this awareness of the problem that BSP has been alarming for four years and more... for hospitals, for retail chains, for economics, for Bulgarian production and so on?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u119	Enough with the chain of commerce!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u120	Mr. Ivanov, it's official.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u121	If you need more time to think, that means you spent four years in this room for absolutely nothing. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] The real reason for doing so today is clear, your justification is organizational and technical. Your motives are in quotes: to protect people. The real reason is: today you put the wreath of uncontrollable power. Today you will use this period of abdication of the National Assembly from work to sweep away the traces of what has been done, stolen in the last four years, and continue uncontrollably to work in the same way, with a high degree of corruption, with a high degree of irresponsibility in the coming days, weeks or months, transferring everything into the hands of the executive, transferring everything into the hands of one person, because we know what the executive power is. And I will end with the words that I started a life of credit, freedom under quarantine, dictatorship in action, continuing the thefts!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u122	You're a thief, not us!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u123	And all of this at the expense of the Bulgarian people, with whom you are making excuses today. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Are there lines? There are no lines. Mr. Tzipov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, dear Bulgarian citizens! [[Applause from GERB.]] Today we are looking at a draft decision on Parliament's work during the emergency situation announced by a decision of the National Assembly. We are not looking at a change in the Emergency Act, we are not looking at other measures related to the state of emergency. Actually, let me do a brief history of facts. Last week, the Conference of Presidents proposed a mechanism for how to work the National Assembly during the state of emergency and in order to have consensus, we proposed to our colleagues from BSP for Bulgaria to give their proposal and they gave it. But they didn't sign it and they didn't vote, dear Bulgarian citizens, for it. [[Applause from GERB]] without any arguments! Without any arguments, I repeat!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u126	Bravo!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u127	Today, in the same way, we have offered to see, to find the right formula, so that we can react immediately when necessary, to adopt the next emergency measure in relation to the emergency situation. That is why we have decided that the National Assembly should hold regular meetings only in relation to bills and acts relating to the state of emergency, leaving the option for extraordinary meetings, as the Constitution and the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly say. Mr. Tsonev, I see Mr. Tsonev is not in the room... Mr. Tsonev, you missed, I'll turn around, even though you're not here, I'll try to turn around... [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria]] ...I will try to draw your attention to the fact that when the Constitution and the National Assembly decide, it may also hold a secret vote. Are we going to violate the Constitution if we set up a committee here in the National Assembly in envelopes to review the way of voting for first or second reading? [[Private applause from GERB.]] Are we going to break the Constitution? But you won't accept that either. I'm absolutely sure. Not because of anything else, not because of something else, but because you believe that the National Assembly should depend only on your will. Except the voter didn't say that three years ago. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And once we offer you solutions with which we seek some consensus, you usually take the opposite position.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u128	Offer us the opposite.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u129	However, today's plenary will decide... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yeah, we've heard the talkers say that we'll probably have to hold a meeting next week. But let's get back to the debate. We are looking at a solution to Parliament's work during the state of emergency. As has been repeatedly said in this Chamber and beyond, no one can say how long this emergency will last. And why shouldn't we be flexible, respectable MPs, by giving any algorithm to work? Yes, we understand that you are not concerned about the life and health of Bulgarian citizens. You think democracy is breaking down?! However, to remind you that in another National Assembly, one of your presidents on the phone, on the TV, announced that the National Assembly would not meet without a decision of the National Assembly. This is democracy. This is your democracy. In this way you are destroying democracy, honourable MPs from BSP for Bulgaria. And in conclusion, to call on you, however, to reconsider your position and support this decision, which should lead to an algorithm for the work of the National Assembly, to be flexible and to have the opportunity at any time to convene, honourable Members of Parliament, to make all these important decisions that Bulgarian citizens expect from us. And if you do not want to take care of the life and health of all Bulgarian citizens, at least take care of those dozens of employees of a bankrupt company who have lost their insurance rights. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u130	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. - What's the line? The line is Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u131	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the State! Life and health of Bulgarian citizens, fortunately, do not give it to you. These are things you have no control over, fortunately. You can make an effort, you can take action. We're all well-intentioned in this regard, don't speculate, Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u132	Thank you. Another line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u133	How much time does our group have left?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u134	Less than three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u135	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Tzipov, in your speech I heard a lot of arguments, but you neglected to answer to the BSP colleagues, and more precisely their chairman, about another lie that you said from the stand, talking about that we are doing nothing to raise the minimum pension. On the contrary, there was a coalition council on which the minimum pension was decided even from January 1st next year to be 300 BGN. That is, the majority will fulfil this commitment to the elderly, all the more so in this crisis, and thus the minimum pension will be raised twice since this government and this majority rule. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] 20% were raised in three years and all other pensions were indexed, 30% and more people's salaries were indexed, and you go out and say that we do not fulfil our commitments. Well, how can we not? You are not performing them because you are talking about the elderly, and in the previous parliament in the vote on the state budget Mrs. Ninova pulled 20 parliamentarians from the BSP there are old parliamentarians who have been here, took them out not to vote when we, the Patriots, offered 300 BGN. minimum pension and by four votes this decision did not pass. And that's the truth! And let the elderly know who cares about them and who lies to them! [[Single applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u136	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Third line? I can't see. Mr. Tzipov, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u137	Thank God, dear Mr. Jablyanov, life and health do not depend on you. [[Applause from GERB.]] The life and health of Bulgarian citizens is not up to you, otherwise it would be very bad. And in the end, honourable MPs from BSP for Bulgaria and there is no danger and democracy is under threat, why not continue to hold your party meetings and why on 26 April and 3 May do not hold the direct choice [[shouts: "Bravo!" and applause by GERB]] of a party leader? [[GERB lines.]] Why? Answer us not here from the parliamentary tribune in this hall, answer all Bulgarian citizens. As I recall, a few weeks ago your leader said that there is a serious threat to the life and health of Bulgarian citizens and that is precisely why you are stopping... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u138	Wait, he's entitled to...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u139	...party formats. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria and GERB.]] Find a large hall, make your direct choice, select your committee, get yourself some protection and show that everything is okay. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] However, you cannot do so because you will violate all the prohibitions that have been introduced because you will violate all the restrictions that have been introduced, and we are not doing so today with the submitted draft decision, honourable MPs from the BSP for Bulgaria. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u140	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. One minute, Mr. Kolev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u141	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear patients, excuse me, dear candidate patients! Please let the cameras show what a soulful atmosphere we are working in here and should we set an example for the people to disobey the instructions of the Headquarters that we have authorized. You want us to be the first parliament in Europe and in the world that's been ignited by a coronavirus by some of our colleagues? If that's what you want it to be, that's what's gonna happen. We are here to serve the legislative crisis headquarters, the state of emergency. That's what we're for! If necessary, create an environment that allows work and otherwise only in an emergency situation to gather to serve this crisis situation. I call on you all to set a personal example for the population to follow the instructions of the Staff, led by General Mutafchiyski. I would also like to say congratulations on his work! And let us not with our speeches impose unnecessary populism, unnecessary talking, no working environment and no personal example... Thank you. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u142	Thank you, dear Mr. Kolev. I have to ask, are there any other comments? I won't. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I'll introduce you to: "Project DECISION amending the Decision on the work of the National Assembly during the state of emergency declared by Decision of the National Assembly (GB, No. 22 from 2020If you notice any side effects n.o.b., SG No. 26 from 2020 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria concerning a decision of the National Assembly declaring a state of emergency of 13 March 2020. (DV, No. 22 from 2020) HAS DECIDED He amended a decision on the work of the National Assembly during the emergency situation announced by a decision of the National Assembly (GD, SG No. 22 from 2020), n.o.b., SG No. 26 from 2020 as follows: 1. point 1 is amended as follows: During the emergency situation announced by the National Assembly Decision of 13 March 2020, the National Assembly shall hold plenary meetings only on drafts and drafts of acts relating to the declared state of emergency. Parliamentary control in this period is carried out only by written answers to questions and questions. 2. point 2 is amended as follows: During the emergency situation, extraordinary plenary sessions shall be convened under the conditions and under the terms of art. 78 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 46 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 3. Points 3 and 5 are repealed. Please vote on the proposed draft decision. Colleagues, while the vote is under way, I will draw attention to that. 4 of the previous Decision shall not be repealed. I'm paying attention to it. It's not canceled. [[(Comments from GERB: Where is Cornelia Ninova?]] I will read item four after the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u143	Let's wait for Cornelia Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u144	Vote 180 MPs: 115 against 65 abstentions. The motion is accepted. Negative vote, Mr. Popov. Until Mr. Popov came, point four of the previous Decision reads: "4." During the emergency situation, parliamentary committees shall hold meetings. By decision of the committee concerned, its open session may be restricted to external persons, in which case the meeting shall be transmitted directly on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. You have the floor, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I voted against irresponsibility! I voted against fear, cowardice and abdication! I voted against dictatorship because dictatorship is when they constantly give you instructions that your feelings, thoughts and desires have no meaning that... [[The National Representatives of GERB, OP, DPS are leaving the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u146	Colleagues, please show some respect.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u147	... You are nobody and that you should live as other people say who think and desire for you. Hurry up, fellow Members, hurry up and fulfill the decision! Hurry to abdication and disgrace to get out of this National Assembly faster! I voted against because Bulgarians need solutions and salvation, not betrayal and escape! I voted against because I understand Parliament's responsibility because I defend the Constitution of Bulgaria because I defend democracy because the compound and not the escape make the power. I voted against because I am responsible to the suffering Bulgarians! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-26.u148	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Colleagues, the National Assembly will be convened at a next plenary session by the President of the National Assembly in accordance with its powers. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
