ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, first item, and the only one for today is: This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2020. The report will introduce us to Mr. Tzipov. Here you go, Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of Parliament, allow me, first, to make a procedure for admission in the Chamber: Mr. Milko Berner, Deputy Minister of Interior, Senior Commissioner Aleksandar Jartov from the General Directorate of Fire Safety and Population Protection, Mrs. Snezhina Marinova, Director of the Directorate of European Union and International Cooperation, and Mrs. Ivan Alexandrov, Senior Legal Consult in the same Directorate.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u3	Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 162 MPs: 155 against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services enhancing the sustainability of disaster risks between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, signed in Sofia on 6 December 2019. At its meeting held on 5 February 2020, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services enhancing the resilience to disaster risks between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, signed in Sofia on 6 December 2019, No 002-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2020. The meeting was attended by: Deputy Minister Milko Berner, Anelia Ivancheva, Head of Department of the Directorate of the European Union and International Cooperation. On behalf of importers, the bill was presented by Deputy Minister Milko Berner. In his arguments, he noted that the conclusion of the Agreement is in implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for Partnership and Support in Using the European Structural and Investment Funds for the period 2014-2020. The Memorandum provides that the bank's support will be focused on specific essential areas. The management of disaster risk is a specific and essential area which is directly linked and influences areas mentioned in the Memorandum, such as the environment, transport, energy, agriculture, forestry, water sector. The purpose of the Agreement with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is for the Ministry of Interior to receive advisory services to support the development of a National Disaster Risk Management Plan. The agreement contains a description of consultancy services, which include diagnostic and road map development activities, including actions to strengthen disaster risk management and in particular preparedness, prevention, early warning and response, collection of historical data on damage and loss and development of a concept for their collection in the future, development of a proposal for a National Disaster Risk Profile in Bulgaria as part of the National Disaster Risk Management Plan. With the implementation of the activities envisaged in the Agreement, support will be achieved for the implementation of the government's priorities for reducing the risk of disasters set out in the National Development Programme............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The implementation of the activities provided for in the Agreement will strengthen the capacity of the competent authorities in formulating plans and programmes related to disaster risk management, analyses, diagnostics for sectoral and design planning, design and implementation, in order to better manage, increase efficiency and better implement disaster risk mitigation policies. The consulting services provided for in the Agreement will be financed by funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds provided by the Republic of Bulgaria through the Operational Programme Members of the National Assembly Ivan Ivanov and Valentin Radev took part in the debates. On the basis of the vote held, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee with 20 votes for the Council of Ministers, without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt, on the first vote, a bill for ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services enhancing the sustainability of disaster risks between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, signed in Sofia on 6 December 2019, No 002-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. With the report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, Mr. Stoinev will introduce us. Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services enhancing the sustainability of disaster risks between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, signed in Sofia on 6 December 2019, No 002-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers On 24 January 2020, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No At its regular meeting held on 12 February 2020, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services enhancing the resilience to disaster risks between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. On the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria with this bill is proposed to the National Assembly to ratify the above agreement by law. The importers point out that the Agreement is being concluded in implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for Partnership and Support in Using the European Structural and Investment Funds for the period 2014-2020. The Agreement aims to obtain advisory services to support the development of a National Disaster Risk Management Plan, taking advantage of the expertise, information and international experience of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed by 7 votes for the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a Draft for ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services enhancing the resilience to disaster risks between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, signed in Sofia on 6 December 2019, No 002-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services enhancing the sustainability of disaster risks between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, signed in Sofia on 6 December 2019, No 002-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers On 24 January 2020, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No At a regular meeting held on 6 February 2020, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services enhancing the resilience to disaster risks between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, signed in Sofia on 6 December 2019, No 002-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2020. The bill was presented by Mr. Milko Berner (Deputy Minister of the Interior). The conclusion of the Agreement is in implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for Partnership and Support in Using the European Structural and Investment Funds for the period 2014 - 2020. The purpose of the Agreement with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is for the Ministry of Interior to receive advisory services in support of the development of a National Disaster Risk Management Plan, taking advantage of the expertise, information and international experience available to the Bank in this area. The agreement contains a description of the advisory services that the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development will provide to the Ministry of Interior. These advisory services shall include the following activities: - developing a diagnostic and road map identifying the necessary actions to strengthen disaster risk management, in particular preparedness, prevention, early warning and response; - collecting historical data on damage and loss and developing a concept for their collection in the future; - development of a proposal for National Disaster Risk Profile in Bulgaria; - developing a report with a proposal for a National Disaster Risk Management Plan in Bulgaria; - capacity development. The consulting services provided for in the Agreement will be financed by funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds 2014 The Agreement is subject to ratification by law on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. After the discussion, the members of the Budget and Finance Committee expressed their principal support for the proposed bill by concluding its discussion with the following results: with 18 votes for abstention and non-restraint, the Budget and Finance Committee proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote the Draft for ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services enhancing resilience to disaster risks between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, signed in Sofia on 6 December 2019, No 002-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. The latest report belongs to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Mrs. Alexandrova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u10	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of The Agreement on the provision of advisory services enhancing the sustainability of disaster risks between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, signed in Sofia on 6 December 2019, No 002-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2020. At its meeting held on 5 February 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services enhancing the sustainability of disaster risks between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, signed in Sofia on 6 December 2019, No 002-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2020. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Interior: Mr. Milko Berner Deputy Minister, Mrs. Anelia Ivancheva Head of the Department of the Department of the Ministry of the Interior and the Cooperation of the Directorate of the European Union and International Cooperation. The bill was presented by Mr. Berner, who pointed out that the conclusion of the Agreement is in the implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for Partnership and Support in Using the European Structural and Investment Funds for the period 2014-2020. He added that the purpose of the Agreement is for the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and for the Ministry of Interior to receive advisory services in support of the development of a National Disaster Risk Management Plan, taking advantage of the expertise, information and international experience available to the Bank in this area. Mr. Berner clarified that the Agreement contains a description of the consulting services that the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development will provide to the Ministry of Interior. The implementation of the activities provided for in the Agreement will also enhance the capacity of the competent authorities in formulating plans and programmes related to disaster risk management, analyses, diagnostics for sectoral and design planning, design and implementation in order to better manage, increase efficiency and better implement disaster risk mitigation policies. The consulting services provided for in the Agreement will be financed by funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds 2014 - 2020 provided to the Republic of Bulgaria through Operational Programme During the discussion took part the MPs Smilyana Nieva and Krasimir Tsipov, who expressed their support for the bill. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs unanimously with 17 votes for abstention and non-restraint proposed to the National Assembly that a bill ratifying the Agreement on the provision of advisory services enhancing the sustainability of disaster risks between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, signed in Sofia on 6 December 2019, No 002-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u11	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Colleagues, I give the floor for speeches. Here you are, Mr. Malinov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u12	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! After the long and long irrigation reports of the committees, I would like to ask a question and express a very, very negative opinion on this document. As a political group, we will support the Agreement, but the way it comes to this support is more than vicious. What do I mean? Has anyone been impressed by the committees and by the reports that have been read here before you that there is a statement by the Deputy Minister, a representative of the political cabinet and the administration, mutually exclusive data? To the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, we asked the Deputy Minister: "Dear Mr. Deputy Minister, how much will it cost, what price does the State have to contribute to this project?" The reply of the Deputy Minister is: These activities will be fully funded under the financial mechanisms, which I quoted: Operational Programme "Environment" 2014 "2020" The Deputy Minister claims this at a Commission meeting, with this statement the entire Commission, which unanimously supports it. At the meeting of the Finance and Budget Committee, this same Deputy Minister in the same report on this subject claims that the co-financing by the State will be three million. I ask you, honourable Members, how would you treat a deputy minister to mislead an entire Commission? What's true? Will there be co-financing or no co-financing? Why does a senior administrator mislead an entire Commission, an entire National Assembly? That is why the rating of the National Assembly will be low, because every single official can mislead the person he wants and feel unpunished. Yes, the project is necessary, we will vote on it, but let someone explain why the Deputy Minister of the Interior deliberately or unintentionally. This delusion has its dimension and it is three million leva. I'm waiting for an answer. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Malinov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u14	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Malinov! You're talking about total incompetence and ignorance of the subject by some deputy minister. [[Voices "Eee!" by GERB.]] And because in Boyko Borisov's country there are many pawns that are responsible and the only culprit is Boyko Borisov, but it is still nice of this tribune to tell this deputy minister from which ministry he is and what name he carries to know this incompetent pawn the name! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u15	Mr. Mirchev, please treat us with respect from the stands of the National Assembly. Second line? I don't see a second line. Here you go, Mr. Malinov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u16	Dear Mr. Mirchev, I'm not very forward with the chess material to talk about pawns, but I know more or less about biology and I know what a ladybug is. The ministry we are talking about is the Ministry of Interior and the deputy minister's name is Milko Berner.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u17	What's raspberry?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u18	Nice fruit, Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u19	Thank you, Mr. Malinov. Any other speeches? Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u20	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, it is nevertheless an honor to the BSP colleagues that they say that they have an objection that there is a debate going on, because many of these agreements on this territory are taking them with care here and we do not think about what is at all. It is about one of the successive agreements with which the World Bank or the International Monetary Fund (IMF) basically resembles two drops of water, because they have one genesis, define us, impose us and ask us for certain behavior, purely colonial behavior, of course. And here, however, BSP colleagues were wrong to blame Boyko Borisov. No, Boyko Borisov is not guilty, we are all guilty in the various editions of the National Assembly that we are irreproachably obedient. It's about, of course, some money. That's one side of the story. Three million. Yeah, three million. What will be the benefit of them for me is very doubtful, but from these three million will be paid for some consulting services to some foreign guests who will come here and realize some money that will be supplemented elsewhere by so-called international or global banking or financial institutions. That's one side of the story. The other side of the matter is that in this way these world banking or financial institutions exercise their obligation to exercise control over the territory. All the time! These are found, these are methods, these are means, these are cannons precisely for the imposition of certain policies of Bulgaria in one connection or another. The activities it is pleading for, which are indicated to come with some money and that we will benefit from them, we can carry them out ourselves without this high help, which will be better for the country too. So when we are faced with similar ratifications, we have to give our account for something very different from that it concerns specific aid, certain activities, some financing. The issue is much deeper and it is working here, of course, to remove and that residual minimal sovereignty that our state still has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches, colleagues? I don't see any other speeches. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill for ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services enhancing the sustainability of disaster risks between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, signed in Sofia on 6 December 2019, No 002-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2020. They voted 146 MPs: 132, against 3, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Mr. Tzipov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u22	Thank you, Madam President. On the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I am making a procedure to proceed to a second vote on the bill of ratification which has just been adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u23	Thank you, Mr. Tzipov. Please, colleagues, let's vote on the procedure Mr. Tzipov has done. They voted 136 MPs: 111, against 10, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u24	"I'm going to on the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services enhancing the resilience to disaster risks between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, signed in Sofia on 6 December 2019. A single member. Ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services enhancing the sustainability of disaster risks between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, signed in Sofia on 6 December 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u25	Statements, coworkers? I don't see any speeches. I put to the vote the name of the bill and the only member. 135 MPs voted: 116, against 4, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. That's what we've run out of schedule for today. We continue with parliamentary control at 11:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u26	Colleagues, we continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions concerning the period from 7 February to 13 February 2020: A question was received from the National Representative Kristian Ivanov Vigenin to Kiril Ananiev, Minister of Health, concerning the spread of the new coronavirus globally and the current measures of the authorities to prevent it in Bulgaria. The plenary sitting should be answered on 21 February 2020. Written answers from: - Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on two issues from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov of seven questions from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov on a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on two issues from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Irena Anastasova; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on a question from the MP Konstantin Popov; - Minister of Environment and Lead Emil Dimitrov on a question from the National Representative Violeta Zheleva. Colleagues, we will proceed with the first question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u27	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u28	Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u29	Madam President, honourable Members! My procedure is the way I conduct myself. Madam President, it is not the first question that you are returning absolutely unfounded, but I believe that this is the way to break key balances in the country in my opinion. It is my question, which was to the Prime Minister and was based on the fact that the Prime Minister in this term has already, because he is experienced, left himself very little opportunity to participate in parliamentary control and the only thing he is responsible for under one order is security and for one or two agencies of the type of DANS. Everything else is out of his jurisdiction, and his deputies must be in charge. And on this occasion I ask him through you: why and on what grounds is DANS eavesdropping on a NATO general, respectively the President? I ask, of course, Boyko Borisov, because he is the person responsible for SANS in the state, according to his own records and, by the way, according to the DANS Act. He ordered this! There's no one else to ask what the DANS is doing but the Prime Minister because he's in charge of this! And you're telling me that, you see, the only way to ask this parliamentary question was through the Parliamentary Commission on Services. Where does it say it's the only way? This could go to the Parliamentary Commission on Services, and why can't it go to the Prime Minister who is in charge of this? On top of that, the parliamentary committee on the services there under the SANS, the wiretaps and so on, this parliamentary committee gives its reports to the Prime Minister and, respectively, to the President. And I'm asking a question about the Prime Minister eavesdropping on the president! [[GERB lines.]] Well, that's it! The DANS, who is under the Prime Minister's orders, has been listening to the President! [[Relations of the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov.]] You're saying that the DANS is working under the Prime Minister's authority without the Prime Minister knowing what the DANS is doing!? No, he knows! [[GERB lines.]] If anyone wants to convince me that Boyko Borisov did not know that the president of the state is being bugged, I will tell you that either Boyko Borisov is not about the place he is occupying or someone is lying to me!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u30	That's exactly what the president said, those things.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u31	This particular eavesdropping of the President certainly happened, in my opinion, with the Prime Minister's knowledge.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u32	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u33	I'm done! That's why I'm asking the question, if he had just come here to answer, we'd have answers now we have doubts, and I have charges. This man is listening to the president!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u34	What guy?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u35	Boyko Borisov, of course! Don't you get it?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u36	DATO, DATO!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u37	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Mrs. Karayancheva, you have the floor to answer to Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u38	Dear Mr. Kutev, I work entirely under the rules. Your objection has been addressed by the Chairman's Council of Presidents, this issue should not be implemented under Chapter 9 of the Rules of Procedure, as decided by the Conference of Presidents. Only I want to give you some of my arguments. Let our colleagues and our viewers know what this is about. The order you are quoting says the following: the Prime Minister has functions of coordination in relation to the activities of the SANS. This means a general nature of control which does not imply specificity, administration and impact on the substance. Questions in the sense: who asked, for what purpose and on what basis was applied a wiretap of Tsvetan Stoykov could not be included in the powers and responsibilities of the Prime Minister. Parliamentary control in relation to the activities of the SANS against art. 132, para. 1 of the MNS shall be carried out by the Parliamentary Commission, which shall, under art. 18, p. The following functions shall be: the authorisation, application and use of special intelligence means, the storage and destruction of information received through them. Each Member of the National Assembly shall have the right to participate in the Commission, to ask questions to the Commission. I am strictly following the Rules of Procedure, as I have done, and your objection has been addressed at the Chairman's Council, so there is nothing to blame me for, Mr. Kutev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Karayancheva. Let's go!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u40	We are continuing with parliamentary control of Tomislav Donchev, Deputy Prime Minister, who will answer two questions. The first question is from the MPs Kristina Sidorova and Dimitar Danchev on the State Agency "Safety of road traffic." Here you are, Mrs. Sidorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u41	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, just one year ago, a decision of the Council of Ministers established a State Agency for Road Safety and granted 3 million. lv. for her allowance. The reasons with which this decision was adopted are:................................................................. in formulating road safety policies and securing this policy with objective, impartial and comprehensive data and analysis................................................................................................................................................................................ I merely recall that at the time of the establishment of the Agency there were already 11 such structures, in fact this is the 12th one that is responsible for road safety. Did anything improve with regard to road safety this year, in which the Agency works? Unfortunately, to date, black statistics have not changed for the better. On the contrary, the number of victims on the road has increased. Our country is very far from meeting its own objective set out in the 2011 Strategy to reduce the number of victims on the road, namely in 2020 to reduce the victims of road accidents by 50%. Worse yet, government declarations of policy to reduce traumaticism are good wishes left in dust-picking leaves of paper that didn't find a practical dimension. This conclusion requires the report on the state of road safety in Bulgaria for 2012, prepared by the Agency and adopted by the Council of Ministers in December 2019. Against the backdrop of these severe findings, what is happening to the agency itself? We have 39 staff appointments, including a chairman with a political cabinet, secretary general, PR, nine people administration and only 22 staff specialized administration. According to the biographies of the management of the Agency and of the directors, in them we read that these are specialists in English philology, international relations, politology, all specialities close to road safety. Some of the activities that the Agency carried out last 2019 are also interesting.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u42	The question is, Mrs. Sidorova, your time is running out.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u43	Just a second! One of the first things that ends is an order for two brand-new SUVs for the sum of 132 thousand. BGN, competition for a poster and other instructions distributed to the municipal offices, with recommendations for road safety, which are already present in the Bulgarian legislation. In this regard, my question to you is: did the State Agency also contribute to how the safety of traffic on the road to overcome the gaps in road safety policies and, more importantly, to make our roads safer? Have the victims of the road accidents been reduced since the establishment of this agency?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Sidorova. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u45	Dear President, Mrs. Sidorova, Mr. Danchev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! The State Agency "Safe of Road Traffic" was established as a single state body to coordinate the efforts of the institutions to increase road safety. Historically, as you mentioned, one of the problems in this area is that we have shared responsibility between many institutions. Following the European experience, a centralised body was created that had to coordinate, control and unite the efforts of all departments, following the complex approach, i.e. to account for the three main components of road safety: driver, car, road or road conditions. That is why the Bulgarian state was congratulated by the European Commission for the establishment of the Agency as a decisive step towards changing the policy on road safety management. What has the Agency done since its creation? here you are correct in a period of a year ago? First of all, the Agency developed, subsequently the Council of Ministers adopted an Introductory Report on the state of road safety, which you quoted. It is the conceptual basis for all of her work from now on. It is currently being developed and within a period of up to two months is expected the first version of the Road Safety Strategy " Horizon 2030," which should precisely regulate the work of all individual institutions in a way that will lead to reduction of road victims. Since the first month of its establishment, the Agency has developed and sent a number of methodological guidelines for the implementation of internal rules in budgetary organisations, including setting up a regime for compliance with safety measures for the use of public transport. The 28 regional annual reports and programme plan were revised and approved. The Agency shall actively coordinate the efforts of the departments concerned with the elements of traffic safety in the establishment of the National Coordination Centre to enhance road safety. That was definitely a good measure. In 2019, the State Agency "Safety of Road Traffic" together with the Road Infrastructure Agency "Safety of Roads" reviewed all sections with the concentration of road accidents and gave mandatory prescriptions for the removal of identified non-compliances. I will not comment on campaigns for active dialogue with the civil sector. What matters is that the Agency has been approved as a beneficiary under the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth" and as a result of its work one of the priorities for the next programming period, when we talk about road infrastructure, will be measures to reduce risk and road safety. Finally, allow me to stress that over the years, not only at national but also at European level, we have convinced ourselves that sustainable results can only be achieved if we adopt and actually start applying the so-called integrated approach, a Safe System. I ask you very much not to confuse the work of experts at the Agency with the work of a traffic cop or a construction worker working on the roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u46	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. For a line, Mr. Danchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I listened to you carefully and heard nothing but bureaucratic, philological, I would say, explanation and dry statistics. But to tell you the truth, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, the lives of our children are not and cannot be dry statistics! Perhaps the report, which you hold in your hands and have been prepared by your subordinate office, lists a lot of things and describes a lot of work done by the Agency's work created by you a year ago. The safety of traffic on the roads, but bureaucracy cannot hide the black statistics, nor can it hide the obvious facts. Why didn't you list how many legal acts the established Road Safety Agency has developed? Because the answer outside the report you quoted is zero. Did your portfolio Agency for adoption, for example, do something about new regulations under the Road Traffic Act? Because if you do not know, the current one was made in 1996 and refers to the Road Traffic Act, which was repealed in 1999. What exactly has not become clear from your response? The Agency has improved coordination between the different administrative units that are responsible or have a safe house for road traffic? How many roads has the Agency offered to close or limit traffic on them because of poor road markings, because of poor road conditions, because of lack of road signs, etc., etc.? Because the answer is still zero, and that's why you can't tell. You did not answer because in all this work you had to approach expertly and not the new administration, as Mrs. Sidorova pointed out, to become a port of compromised civil servants and to swallow, as it became clear from the question asked, a large resource without any benefit. To keep the people out of this room under the impression...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u48	The question, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u49	No, I don't have a question. That's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u50	Line. Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u51	I'll be very brief. Really, as you said, Mr. Donchev, every Agency, every ministry with the help of the established Agency has developed its own system of measures for safe traffic on the roads.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u52	Well, finish the line already.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u53	I'm just going to give two examples of the system. One of the measures in this system is: Requirements for the prevention of road accidents when driving motor vehicles and one of these requirements states: The open window may attract various air particles that can reduce visibility.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u54	Thank you, Mr. Danchev, thank you. [[Definitions between the President and the National Representative Dimitar Danchev.]] Yes, thank you. One minute too much.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u55	I talked a little bit more, I talked at least half a minute more. You could have let me finish my sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u56	A whole minute. Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u57	I'm not gonna get into the funny and distracted conversation, but I'm gonna try to talk to numbers. The people who died on the road in 1999 were 1567. Since then, the number of victims has decreased. The two years with the lowest number of victims on the road are 2013 and 2012, when the victims on the road are 601, 2019. The deaths were 627, 2018 were 611. The peak of both crashes and victims for explainable reasons is usually in July and August. The difference from 2019, the slightly larger number of victims, unfortunately, comes from the concentration of several catastrophes that occurred in the months of June and October. The subject is extremely serious because it cannot be reduced only to the state of road infrastructure, control regarding the condition of the vehicle and the preparation of drivers. It should be reasoned in its complexity, and that is exactly what we are trying to do. And, honourable Members, we need an active, adequate road safety policy. Please, let's not make politics about the victims.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u58	Thank you, dear Mr. Donchev. We move on to the second issue by MP Cornelia Ninova on a machine vote for the elections for MPs in 2021. Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u59	Thank you, Madam President. I'm taking a procedure in the manner of conducting your response to Mr. Kutev, why are you diverting the question? I waited deliberately for Deputy Prime Minister Donchev to answer to give you a parallel and show you how you really work with double standards. The State Agency is the exact same body as the State Agency National Security. A fellow Member of the National Assembly is asking a question concerning road safety, Traffic Safety Agency and Mr. Deputy Prime Minister is present and responding. Mr. Kutev is asking a question concerning the State Agency "National Security" and Mr. Borisov is missing. You say that he does not coordinate and is not obliged to come to meet the MPs. I ask: what is the difference between the two agencies? One Mr. Donchev comes to be responsible, and the other Mr. Borisov is afraid to come to answer!? And since this is obviously how you will hide it until the end of the term of office, the request of the parliamentary group is, if possible to all MPs, but if not to us, at least to give us a list of the topics and the portfolios on which Mr. Borisov is competent to answer, so that we can only ask questions about these things, and not return them to us and place the National Assembly and the Conference of Presidents in a difficult situation to make decisions to defend a truly cowardly prime minister for me,...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u60	Mr. Svilensky, I'm making a remark to you in the way you speak of the Prime Minister of the State.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u61	...who is afraid to come here and answer the questions. Thank you. I'm sorry. [[Speak to the President away from the microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u62	I've made an explanation of how I returned Mr. Kutev's question. Read the rules. Thank you. Here you are, Mrs. Ninova, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u63	Dear Bulgarian citizens! Many of you have heard, shared or been witnesses and victims of pressure, manipulations, bought votes and invalid vote in elections. In the last elections alone there were 15% invalid ballots or about 500 thousand, which in Bulgaria is the largest number of invalid ballots in the last 10 years. This calls into question the truthfulness of the vote and objectivity of the representation of political parties. One way to change this and to achieve an honest vote, to guarantee an honest vote, is to vote machine. In the Election Code it is laid down and exists as a legal norm, but the government did not accept the opposition's proposal in the 2020 budget to include funds to secure the engine vote and none of them were. I asked that question to the Deputy Prime Minister on 3 February, when there was no prospect that the government would do anything to secure the engine vote and enforce the law. On February 12th, nine days later, the Council of Ministers decided to provide funding, of course, outside the budget procedure, outside the parliament, traditionally by decree of the Council of Ministers. But from now on, the government, the Central Election Commission, all the authorities that have responsibilities on this matter must organise the process. My question to Mr. Tomislav Donchev is: what does the government do? Do you have a plan? Is there a time schedule? Do you have clarity about time limits for public procurement, types of machines and so on? When will we be fully ready for machine voting in Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u64	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u65	Mrs. President, Mrs. Ninova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll start with Mrs. Ninova's introduction. Machine vote, machine vote creates a number of advantages. It is easy, convenient, solves entirely the problem of invalid ballots. In the event of a machine vote, there can be no invalid ballot, solves radically the problem of errors in the protocols, but it is not a panacea. It can't solve all problems. Manipulation, pressure, bought vote will have both ballots and machines. Other measures must be taken there. Separately, if we are to be honest, despite the advantages that there are, the machine voting creates some additional risks that we have had the opportunity to comment on in time back.. I will not waste the valuable time repainting them. As of Wednesday, the Council of Ministers unparalleledly one year before the elections, tasked me with the commitment with the Central Election Commission to organise the machine acquisition process. We will do this, there is plenty of time, but I think the honourable National Assembly also has some work to do, because the texts in the Election Code, as they are now, are quite declarative. We need to clarify.. I offer assistance in this direction, several very important things. First, will the National Assembly give a framework to the Central Election Commission, to the Council of Ministers what type of machinery should be used because there are at least three types of machines? There are reading machines that can scan traditional ballots. There's a machine that can be voted on electronically, and there's a possibility that it can generate a paper print. There are also machines where the process runs only electronically. I assume that the Election Code should give a clear framework in this direction. There is a very serious topic: are we creating a parallel order of machine and paper voting, or are we only going to machines? A few more very difficult questions: what do we do with small sections under 300 voters; what do we do with moving sections; what do we do with voting abroad? In my opinion, here, the actions of the Central Election Commission and the executive should be formatted by a very clear framework. Fortunately, I know that there is a working group formed to focus their work including on these few critical issues, the rest of the technical work will be done. I strongly stress that the machines will be acquired by the state, i.e. they will not be rented. This is the right option, first of all, in terms of economy. Hiring, if the election from now on is going to be on machines, it's going to cost a lot more money. We are radically solving the problem of auditing and certification of machines, which is currently being done in one hectic time frame at each hire. Machines once acquired, once checked will be able to be safely used in all elections. I'm staying available. Whatever is necessary from the point of view of the assistance of the state authorities in the signature of these specific proposals will be provided.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u66	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mrs. Ninova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u67	Mr. Donchev, it seems it becomes a practice of the government when there is an open question to pretend that this is the first time you've heard of it. In all corruption practices that were discovered, the Prime Minister suddenly heard that there was garbage in Bulgaria, that there was a problem with water after 10 years. Do you know how many times your political party has discussed these issues as the leading parliamentary majority? At least 10 times. What machines to be, how to certify? How much time have we lost in these conversations so far? What you're telling us means we're starting over. You cannot and will not lift a finger to buy any machines until parliament changes the Election Code again. How long is this gonna take? Do you transfer responsibility here? You will stand and wait for us for the seventeenth time to discuss the Election Code, as we have done in the past 10 years, and not once have you heard us, how many times have we said that Bulgaria should buy the machines and not hire them, that the price is almost the same and that it is simply a sin to throw some money for renting machines in all elections, and it is better that Bulgaria should buy them and have them on property? Do you now hear that you are putting it as a matter before the National Assembly? I am under the impression that the decision of the Council of Ministers was simply to calm public tensions and public attitudes and that you are now returning the ball to parliament we are here to sit down and with a working group we have yet to change the Election Code on issues that we have discussed dozens of times and that we have not agreed on. I expected something much clearer and concrete. What you say is alarming and calls into question whether you can handle the engine vote by the next election. I would like you to know clearly and clearly: for us, the engine vote is a red line that must not be crossed. You yourself have admitted that the engine vote removes some of the problems, not all of them, but with false, invalid ballots, forged protocols.. this will help. For us, this is a red line because it guarantees the integrity of the vote, eliminates the invalid ballots, which the Bulgarian people have decided, for which the party has decided, but in the country it is known that it is an objective vote, and it is not forged and that one or another party rules objectively according to the will of the people, not because it has distorted the elections, bought, manipulated and so on, because such a party cannot rule legitimately. This is a danger not only to this party, but to statehood in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u68	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u69	Dear Mrs. Ninova, please do not create a commotion where there is no potential for this. The Central Election Commission and the government in relation to the Election Process have always carried out what is written in the Code, historically. If the National Assembly prefers to leave this broader framework where the texts are decorative, it gives us greater degrees of freedom. I even have a personal opinion: when we talk about a type of machine, the best option is an electronic voting machine that stores the data in digital form, but additionally generates and newsletters on paper. And that's good, because if necessary, judicial control and manual counting of ballots have a way of analyzing not only the electronic result, but also checking paper ballots. This gives the voter confidence that, besides what reflected the machine as a result, he can also see the printout where his vote is reflected and then stored. A year is plenty of time to deal with the Central Election Commission with the help we would have given it. With the will of the National Assembly depending on what is narrower or in a broad format, we will comply.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u70	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. We should thank Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev for participating in today's parliamentary control. A declaration on behalf of a group, please, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u71	Madam President, honourable Members! In relation to the allegations of corruption made by the Vice-President of the National Assembly Valeri Simeonov to journalists from different media... [[Reply from GERB: "They are not from different media. "]] They are from different media, at least from two of the Bulgarian media, and if you want to hear it, we at BSP express our serious concern about the state of media freedom in Bulgaria. The accusations of corruption of public figures, such as one of the most popular journalists in Bulgaria, should be duly proven before they are made, because otherwise they become slander. Defamation is described in art. 147 of the Penal Code and specifically refers to, quote: Corruption is a crime that is clearly attributed to journalists in two media outlets, at least for now there are two, and there will probably be more. According to the Bulgarian Constitution, the proof of both corruption and slander is the duty of the court, and before the court's decision is final, we should be very careful in using these definitions. Another point is that the Bulgarian society has been quite modern lately. The accusations are shown as extreme facts, without being proven and we have yet to see, unfortunately, what part of the accusations thrown into society are true, especially when it comes to journalists. What is worse, however, is that the Vice-President of the Parliament is accusing journalists of corruption of a crime which he is aware of that they have not committed. Corruption has been a difficult problem for our country over the past 30 years, but the root of this evil is undoubtedly rooted in power and not in the media. The simple analysis of the situation already made by many media shows that there is no reason for these journalists to be suspected of committing any crime, which means that by accusing journalists of crime, the chairman of a ruling majority party is trying in practice to interfere with the editorial policy of some of the biggest Bulgarian media by determining what and when they should publish. Our serious concern is caused by the fact that not for the first time representatives of this government are trying to control media content, to put it mildly, with unacceptable measures. And if for Anton Todorov this leads to exit from parliament, then for people like Borisov and Simeonov obviously no borders apply. The pressure on Bulgarian journalists is multi-spectrum, colorful, often vulgar to enhance the effect. You turned off their microphones, you called them missionaries, if it wasn't any other help, and close to the government they were using entire media. Disregard and insults are only a small part of the means that aim to provide calm and comfort to the government. Threats are obviously honored among our political elite and probably often work, judging by the lower places Bulgaria occupies in freedom of speech. But beyond the many other examples in this direction, we would like to pay particular attention to these threats to leading journalists, made several days ago by the Vice-President of Parliament Valeri Simeonov. I quote: I would forward the prosecution to them to call them. That sentence deserves a serious semantic analysis. Firstly, it is obvious that according to the chairman of one of the ruling parties, the prosecution calls some people, in this case journalists. And if getting used to it can still pass for a linguistic problem related to unacceptable, and, I would say, ridiculous expression, then the idea that the President of any party in Bulgaria is considering sending the prosecution somewhere is already a problem of how Bulgarian democracy works, especially when this brave gentleman sends the prosecution against journalists, when, as we have already noted, this is part of the systematic efforts to neglect and subjugate the media environment in Bulgaria. Gentlemen, ruling, arrogance and democratic ignorance have no place in a society that claims European development. Democracy and freedom of speech are the conquest of the entire Bulgarian people and no self-forgotten ruler has the right to question them. You cannot get used to the prosecutor's office journalists because this violates the country's Constitution along with several laws and several European regulations. If you ask me, you can't even think about it! With such thoughts in your head, you become dangerous to democracy, but surely you cannot rule a European state until you realize that there are values above your personal ego that you cannot at all put those values in doubt in our country, not in our democracy. Something dirty and unclean roams the corridors of power, and we all feel it. Journalists, by the way, see it and those of them who have not yet succumbed to fear and cowardice, note it and tell it. It is these journalists that we must defend, not you who threaten them. Mr. Simeonov is not here, but I appeal to him: the cynicism that you showed to the mothers of children with disabilities was obviously not a random manifestation of social inadequacy. You're threatening journalists today. What can we expect until the end of the term? The problem, Mr. Simeonov, is not the media. Today the serious problem or at least one of the most serious problems of Bulgarian democracy is you! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u72	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. We're continuing with parliamentary control. We are going over the questions to Mrs. Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. It will respond first to a question by the MPs Vassil Antonov and Milko Nedyalkov about the design and construction of the necessary water supply for dozens of settlements in Loveska and Pleven District Dam Black Osam. Here you go, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u73	Thank you, Madam President! Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The idea of the construction of the Black Osam Dam dates back to the beginning of the last century, and in the late 1980s project, organizational and commissioning activities were even undertaken for the implementation of the project to solve a series of severe crises in the water supply of Pleven, Lovech and Troyan with long, drastic water modes. It is so far that every three days the water was released for six hours, and after the events of 1989 the project failed. With new water regimes in the late 1990s the municipal councils in Lovech and in Pleven adopted decisions that asked for the restoration of the construction of the dam. Moreover, it should be known that in addition to the three cities of Troyan, Lovech and Pleven, there are about 30 more villages available from the water pipeline. This plumbing is 72 km long, built 45 years ago and found 80 serious accidents per year, often accompanied by water supply interruptions. More than 15 years ago, there was more hope for the construction of the dam. There was then a large survey of a project for complex use of the waters of Cherni Osam, including the construction of a dam, two hydroelectric plants, a water treatment plant for drinking water, a new highway plumbing. These preliminary researches were carried out by the company of the capital of Enel.......................................................in 2003 brought to the Department of Water of your Ministry in 2004 and adopted by the National Expert Council, and so on. It is no secret, however, that the project meets a certain resistance by the residents of the Trojan municipality, and in the last 10 years, however, no representative of the government has had a dialogue with the residents, with the people of the Trojan municipality. Not one! Our questions in asking are: What is the fate of the aged for more than 15 years Project for the complex use of the waters of the Cherni Osam River? What is the view of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for the construction of the dam................................................................................................... Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u74	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Madam Minister, you have five minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u75	Thank you, Madam President! Dear Mr. Antonov, dear Mr. Nedyalkov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the 1960s, the need to build a dam on the Cherni Osam River was considered, with the initial idea providing for the execution of a concrete dam with a height of 100 m. The construction of the.Cherni Osam Dam began in 1986, and in 1990 it was stopped because of a discontent expressed, as you noted, by the local population, concerns about the negative impact of the project on the environment and estrangement procedures, which is why the construction was blocked. In 2003, an international consulting company based on a signed memorandum between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works of Bulgaria and the Ministry of Environment of Italy for the preparation of pre-investment studies for the construction of a dam drew up a Project for the complex use of the waters of the Cherni Osam River, including the construction of a dam, two hydropower plants, a water treatment plant for drinking water, a highway plumbing, a waste water treatment plant of the town of Lovech, a pre-investment survey and a master plan for integrated water services. The pre-investment study used data on the water quantity spent on the territory for the period until 2003. It proposed a new version of the type of dam, providing for the construction of a stone-slope dam with a height of 75 m, i.e. lower than the one provided for in the 1986 project. The plot for the construction of the wall is located about 18 km south of the town of Troyan. In view of the expired period of the previous design up to now, and before starting to design and build a new dam on the territory, new, up-to-date hydrogeological studies relating to the research of the water district should be carried out and a new project should be developed that is economically and environmentally appropriate. The study should take into account the long-term forecast of future water consumption in the separate territory, which shows a reduction in consumption for both drinking and industry needs. Unfortunately, the territory is characterized by negative demographic processes. Natural growth has negative values in the district, negative depopulation processes are taking place, which are illustrated by the low population density. The existence of two operators on the territory of Lovech district further hinders the provision of funding for such a large project. In addition, we recall the adamant refusal by the Municipality of Troyan to join the Association for Water Supply and Sewerage in the separate territory, served by "Water Supply and Sewerage" AD, Sofia. Lovech, which prevents funds from being used by the European Union funds to prepare pre-investment studies and, respectively, to finance the construction of technical infrastructure. I am using this case to stress that the National Investment Plan for Water and Sewerage is currently being developed. The latter is a condition for the allocation of the funds provided for for the next programming period under the operational programmes and will also be a basic document on which investments will be planned and implemented from other sources, including the envisaged and newly established Bulgarian Water and Water Holding. Bulgarian Water Holding is set up to achieve better coordination and control. What I would like to stress is that for the realization of all investment projects that will be implemented by the holding, these are large infrastructure projects in the field of water supply and sewerage, we rely on highly qualified specialists - hydroengineers, water engineers, hydrogeologists. We also expect the support of the scientific community. To this end, within the holding, we plan to create a scientific-analytic unit that will assist the industry in making management decisions, including an analysis of the need to build new water sites, such as the Black Osam Dam. In other words, the assessment of the necessity and construction of a new dam or other appropriate way of solving the water supply problems in this territory, as well as in the territory of the whole country, will be carried out by experts and scientists in the field who will assist the Ministry in implementing the policy in the industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u76	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Antonov, come in for two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u77	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister Avramova, in fact what you said at the moment is that there will be no dam. There will be no dam to supply Loveska, Pleven region and the respective settlements. We are not satisfied with what you have done to repeat the question, to go back 40 years in history. After that, a sufficiently authoritative Italian firm did the Project and talk about geological research?! Yeah, we can do some new geological research, but you don't have a design readiness. Not to mention the fact that both projects and the ones that were before 1990 and the ones that were since 2003 are viable. They can be imposed and very quickly to be finished, processed and to start construction. Everything else is a transfer of things in the future, and in a distant perspective. I'll give you two examples. First, in Pernik, the waterlessness was caused by mismanagement in the presence of a dam. We don't have a dam here! Whatever we say, we don't have a dam here! The water is such that twice a day we have a regime of six hours and more, three to six months a year and this is annual. Ask your colleagues to see for yourself. I'll give you another example. You are well acquainted with the dam Srechenska bar. After the construction of the dam Srevenska bar "Vratsa and Montana have water" is the reason. And from now on, there's the controls. We talk, we find, we spend money, you talk about investment, purification, plumbing, sewerage, and we don't have a dam, we have nothing to manage, we condemn the population in North Central Bulgaria into genocide.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u78	Thank you, dear Mr. Antonov. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u79	Thank you, Madam President! Dear Mr. Antonov, Mr. Nedyalkov, when did I say there would be no dam? I never said there wasn't gonna be a dam. On the contrary, the Ministry discusses and examines all old projects that existed 20 years ago, which were launched and stopped for one reason or another. One of these projects is for the Black Osam Dam. We also own other projects for both Ryantsi Dam and the envisaged dam Kyustendil Dam. At the same time, you know that last year was put into operation the newly built dam of Plovdivtsi. Some construction problems are being built at the dam of Luda Yana, for which we are taking measures to speed up the process. You also stressed that there should be further development and processing of the projects themselves, so I rely on the entire scientific community, which together with us and within the water holding company, which will be created to analyze all the old projects that are designed for the construction of dams and find the best and best solutions so that we can ensure the water supply in the territory of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u80	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Nedyalkov, come in for treatment.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u81	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, we cannot be satisfied with an answer that gives no perspective. From that answer, I was under the impression that it all began again. The accumulated, over the years, the dispute over having or not having a dam has not been forgotten. We start it over and over again. That way the problem won't be solved. Here, I have taken with me a very interesting study of the Geological Institute of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, which claims that there is no need to do dam. Are you going to come back to him again? It's interesting. Did you know about this study at the Ministry because I told you: 10 years there is not a single representative of power to meet with the local community to talk to her about these issues? In the past, in the 1990s, and in the first decade of the 21st century, I personally met and talked to people there. I know one of the parents of preserving nature and not having God's dam forgive it, Minko Zankowski. I've had a conversation with all the people of Black Osam, but there hasn't been a conversation of the government with them. We only go there from election to election. And another thing that bothered me in your reply you said that you should rely on the need to reduce due to the demographic crisis. There's something very tragic about it, no people, no problem, no dam. This logic cannot be followed. Aren't we building a highway, Hemus, to revive this end? We'll rebuild this end, and he won't have any water. The circle of government is becoming enchanted, so I can't be satisfied with the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u82	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. The second issue is from the National Representative Georgi Gokov on ongoing problems in the implementation of the provisions of Regulation No 4 of 14 September 2004 on the terms and conditions for the accession of consumers and on the use of water supply and sewerage systems. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, in September 2018, shortly after you became Minister, in the framework of parliamentary control, I asked you a question about the implementation of the provisions of the famous Ordinance No 4 of 2004. The question was in the context of the protests of a large part of the customers of the water supply, related to the fact that according to this regulation on floor property with water supply with more than one user, the amount of water consumed is paid on the basis of the measured amount reported by the total water meter of the water supply deviation for a certain period of time. The reading of the water meters shall be carried out by reporting the total water meter first, and then account shall be taken of the individual water meters and the difference in the reported water quantity shall be distributed among the individual consumers. In your reply then you assured me that you knew the problem and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works initiated the development of a draft regulation or amendment and supplement to Decree No 4 and created an interdepartmental group to design this project, even uploaded to the Ministry for Public Discussion and to provide opinions on the proposals. Then you assured me that the new texts of the proposed substantial changes in the scope of reporting the distribution of the water quantities spent on floor property is much fairer as a model than the previous way of reporting and because both privileges and liability are distributed equally among all users of the service, and not only to the orderly and those who actually take into account the indicators of the water used. Today, almost a year and a half after that assurance, there are no changes in the Regulation, no changes in its implementation. Again, there are dozens of signals in my reception room from citizens who complain about their unfair reporting of the water they use. I ask you: was your response from September 2018 by the institutions responsible in this case led by you? Don't you think this regulation needs a change? I can go in that direction, but I'm asking the question directly. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: when will Bulgarian citizens be able to rely on rules and regulations to pay fairly for the measured amount of water spent from the operator's water supply system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u84	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Gokov, the reporting and payment of water supply and sewerage services provided by water and sewerage operators is carried out in accordance with the Water Supply and Sewerage Services Regulation No 4 of 14 September 2004 on the terms and conditions of the connection of consumers and on the use of water supply and sewerage systems and publicly known, General terms and conditions for the provision of water supply services to consumers by the Water Operator, approved by the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory. In accordance with art. 30 of Regulation No 4 of 2004, the amount of water spent is distributed among the users in the building of a storey property on the basis of the reports of their individual water meters under this regulation, including all costs in the common areas of the building and the losses of water in the building's water installation............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The maintenance of the plumbing and sewer installation inside the buildings is an obligation of the owners of apartments. It should be borne in mind that the reported data on the total water supply of the water supply is used for commercial payment and the reports on the individual water meters contribute to the distribution of the water consumed between the individual users in the building in floor-owned mode. Currently in the buildings under floor property mode, the difference between the reports on the individual water meters and the total water meter is distributed in proportion to the consumption in the individual dwellings. By my order a working group was established to examine, analyse and present opinions and proposals on the draft amendment and supplement to Decree No 4 of 2004. New proposals of texts were received during the meetings and all proposals were discussed and discussed. The possibility was proposed and discussed in cases where all users are correct, i.e. they have provided access to a real report in the last 12 months, their water meters are technically correct and in a metrology period, the total consumption can be distributed equally between the individual water supply sites in the building. On this proposal there were also objections during the discussions in the working group, because in this way the distribution of total consumption and the owners of homes that are seasonally habitable or uninhabitable will pay the same amounts as those who live permanently on floor property. It should be taken into account that the difference must be distributed in a similar manner to the allocation of the total costs of floor property for maintenance and management when the water is used for general needs. Another proposed proposal for cases where users are correct and the floor property of the General Assembly is able to decide on another way to allocate total consumption costs: at the moment, with the existing Regulation No 4 provides for the possibility to take account of the total water meter in the presence of a representative of the users of the floor property. It is also regulated that the reporting and distribution of the amount of water spent is carried out by the manager or the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the floor property or other authorised consumer. The new amendments to Regulation No 4 are due to changes made in January 2019 to the Law on Construction of the Area, which are aimed at optimizing part of the processes of investment design and reducing administrative and financial burdens. An explicit framework has been established, binding in a more rational way, the process of investment design with the possibility for contracting entities to have a mechanism for requesting the output data and conditions necessary for the investment project to be joined by the operating companies at the same time as the request for a design visa. By order of 3 September 2019 an interdepartmental working group was formed, which includes experts from many institutions, with the task of designing a concept of the Water and Sewerage Act and proposing texts of a draft of the new Water and Water Act. By drawing up the new law on water supply, it aims to unite in a common regulation the rules on ownership, management, operation and maintenance of water systems and facilities, provision and regulation of water services, planning and financing of investment in the water infrastructure. The new law should set out the terms and conditions for the formation and implementation of policies in the water sector; ownership; responsibilities of the various actors in the processes of planning, construction, operation and development of public infrastructure; public relations and the principles of management in the provision of water services; sustainable planning of water systems and related requirements in the design and construction of them. The draft law on water supply and sewerage will be presented to the public by 15 May 2020 under the Decision of 13 December 2019 of the National Assembly. Following the adoption of the new Water and Water Act, an analysis will be carried out of the entire sub-regulation framework relating to it and appropriate action will be taken to amend and supplement or create new regulations, including Regulation No 4 on the terms and conditions of consumer accession and on the use of water supply and sewerage systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u86	Thank you, dear Minister! You have the floor for a line, dear Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u87	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Madam Minister, I thank you for your answer, but it is unlikely that anyone will be satisfied as an answer as prospects. You must be working on the problem, but people want to solve their problems now and immediately. You are convinced, and so am I, and I suppose the people who come to me in the reception room are convinced that everything they use is consumed and there is some price, this price must be paid. The point is that people who use water from the water supply remain with the feeling of injustice, with the feeling that someone is writing down their accounts. This water may be, as you say, and as you mention in the concept of future legislative initiatives and future regulations, may be spent in common spaces, but it is more likely somewhere in the building installation, water installation, someone to steal water by making bypasses to the water meter and so on. Of course, the people who live in this block have no police functions, and they can't find this intruder. There's no way that this intruder could have been found by the VIC, but there's no way they can pile up problems on the user's head alone. Alongside the fact that we pay in different cities, consumers pay the losses on the water supply network, where I hear that somewhere they reach 75. 80%, does not reach the high cost of water and its social tolerance, which we need to talk about separately, and now we also accumulate an obligation for someone outstanding in the bloc. When it's about the common rooms, yes, I understand it, and people understand it, but when it comes to stealing water, leaking somewhere in the building, I just don't understand it, and that legislation has to solve it. I understand that the problem of solving these issues is extremely complex, because they are about as much as justice in the waste tax, on whatever basis it is determined, and so is here the total costs and these losses on the network who to absorb them. But there must be a solution, because that is why we are here, that is why we are a legislative body, that is why you are a minister, to find solutions to the problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u88	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov! A hole, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Gokov, all opinions, proposals and discussions that have been made in connection with the texts submitted to the public discussion on the amendment of Regulation No 4, will be useful in establishing the new Law on Water and the regulations. The theme that you are referring to is an old topic that worries Bulgarian citizens. All water companies have complaints about the distribution of the total amount of water consumed. You understand that in a building floor property, where the plumbing is common property, mechanisms for internal control of the processes must be found. The theme of the fair distribution of water, which is reported by the total water meter and distributed by individual water meters, and the difference to be reported during detection, must find its solution. And I count on your support, your opinions and opinions to be laid down in the new law and the new regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u90	Thank you, dear Minister, for participating in parliamentary control today. This was the last question to Minister Avramova. We continue with Ms. Denitsa Sacheva, Minister of Labour and Social Policy. She will answer a question from the National Representative Anton Kutev about the results of the Plan for Implementation of the National Strategy for Disabled People for the period 2019 - 2020. Here you are, dear Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u91	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I very much hoped that a year ago we had ended up returning again and again to this topic.... to the topic of integration of people with disabilities, because several laws were adopted, which had to move significantly forward the issues of people with disabilities. Now my question to you is exactly where we came from. We know that a Social Services Act was finally adopted with a lot of pain, on which a few days ago we postponed entry by another half year, although according to the Plan I am asking you about had to be adopted as early as 2016. We are now 2020 and it has not yet been adopted. My idea is to actually figure out what part of what's going on in this plan happened. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the plan I am talking about for the integration of people with disabilities is actually something from the implementation of the National Strategy for people with disabilities for the period 2019 - 2020. This strategy implementation plan actually concerns the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which was ratified by our country in 2012. This is a key document. This key document, if implemented, that is, when the UN Convention is implemented, which we have ratified, and when the Plan is implemented, we actually need to make progress in many areas, such as in the accessible environment, to make it really accessible to people with disabilities; equal access to education; effective access to quality health services; employment for people with disabilities; adequate support for community life; access to sport, recreation and culture and so on. These are the main directions to which the implementation of the Plan and the implementation of the Convention should actually lead. My question to you is: what are the policies and which of these policies do we have real progress in? What do you think is done and what remains to be done, bearing in mind that according to the Plan we are talking about for just one moment, here I see the end of this plan, which is standing before me, must end with the establishment of a long-term National Strategy for Disabled People in the context of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. So where are we with this long-term National Strategy? And most importantly, I do not care as much about the strategy itself as the idea to what extent have we ensured the integration of disabled people into our society, at the end of a long process?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u92	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev! Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u93	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kutev, to the extent that your inquiry was specifically directed to the Action Plan for the period 2019 - 2020. At least what has been sent to us, what I can inform you is that this plan was adopted on 7 November 2019 and in it the specific measures proposed for realization are related to providing access to an environment for living; to transport and transport services; to information and communication; to providing access and inclusion of each child in the educational system and opportunities for lifelong learning; to ensuring effective access to quality health services; conditions for work and employment of disabled people; to providing adequate support for life in the community; to providing access to sport, recreation, tourism and participation in cultural life. The monitoring mechanism for monitoring this action plan is set until 31 March next 2021 and then we will be able to report on the activities implemented accordingly. What I can answer you specifically with regard to 2019: we have 14 thousand disabled people working with the assistance of the Employment Agency, including measures and employment programmes under the National Employment Plan and the Operational Programme, with 5100 of them on the primary labour market thanks to the mediation of the employment offices. For the first time, support has also been given to disabled persons when adapting common parts to their homes. We have signed 37 contracts across the country, respectively for staircase lifts, ramps, vertical lifts, elevators. There are already four persons to whom aid has been granted up to BGN 8000. to adapt a car, and the campaign this year has already started on 12 February and will continue until 12 May. Anyone who needs such adaptation of the car can apply. At the moment for public discussion is also a Programme for support for employers who would like to hire or redesign a suitable workplace for people with disabilities. Public discussion will take place by March 31st. Any employer who wants to do this will get up to 10,000. lv. State support. 1500 are disabled people who work in specialized enterprises for and for disabled people. Regarding the specific priority for access to education, you know that after the adoption of the Law on pre-school and school education in Bulgaria, a real chance was given to these children to be integrated into the general education system. Currently 22 thousand are children who study, respectively 4 thousand in kindergarten, 18 thousand in general education institutions, and the cooperation between the social and educational system for their integration continues. One of the priorities is access to a cultural environment. You know, last week the opportunity for disabled people to have their own corner in the National Library was also discovered, so we certainly have a lot to do, but there is also very significant progress. I conclude that if 183 million were allocated to people with disabilities in the period 2013 - 2014 today they are 3.6 times more for 2020. 550 million are targeting measures to support people with disabilities. We certainly have a long way to go, but I think that what we have achieved so far also deserves respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u94	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor, Mr. Kutev, to ask questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u95	Dear Minister, there is no question that progress has been made. Personally, I believe that I am one of the people who have been involved in this progress in one way or another over the last one or two years. The plan you're talking about. Indeed, in my question, 2019 has been recorded in 2020 because I wanted to reduce the period to talk about what has been done in these years. The period of the plan itself is from 2015 to 2020. I put a smaller period to speak specifically. That a lot of things have been done and that more money has been allocated, I repeat, all of us, but most of all the people with disabilities themselves, who were already facing the threshold of tolerance of everything, have merit. Of course, I don't deny the government's credit. My question is now directed right there, actually: how are we going to move on? That's the point. A few questions I'd like to ask you. Okay, I get it, we have four faces in a car, but you didn't say how many people need a car. We know about the four... before that, probably no such references have been made. We have 37 contracts to adapt housing. Well, how much do they need? So we know when we've made 37, where we're going. 1500 people are saying you are working in specialized companies that are for people with disabilities. And how many people have to work? How many of them are able and how many faces are there, that is, what are we looking for there? You say 22,000 kids are studying. Are those all the kids? Are there any kids who don't study? Because that's the question we have to solve. And 550 million you say we have now given, which is much more than before. I repeat, we all have a part in this. How much do we have to give? I mean, how much is the money? Because the ratified convention by Bulgaria means that every Bulgarian citizen with disabilities should have access to all these things. In other words, it is not the question: how much has become, but how much is needed to achieve normal goals, to guarantee those who do not have any other chance. Each of us can rely on something else in our future work, something else in our lives, but these people can only rely on the state in their vast majority. That is, the question of whether we fulfil our commitments to them is a key, civilized issue, it determines how we are treated ourselves. Please tell me from these data you gave, what really needs to be done, except what has been done.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u96	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. You have the floor for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u97	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kutev, so far the support that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has shown for people with disabilities is for over 650,000 people and for almost 26 000 children. So in terms of needs, there are probably a lot of them, and there is probably a lot more to be done, but the direction that I have already told you is that.. to continue programmes that are related to an accessible environment, to continue investment in terms of the possibilities for disabled people to find jobs and to support employers. As far as children with disabilities are concerned, a significant proportion of those who need support for access to education were covered through the mechanism for covering children and their inclusion in educational institutions. With exact numbers for the needs at the moment I do not have, but it is important that this direction is towards ever deeper integration of people and children with disabilities, support from the state. As you can see, in just one short period of time, in less than 10 years, we have increased support for them almost 3.6 times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u98	Thank you, dear Minister. Answering attitude Mr. Kutev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u99	Dear Mrs. Sacheva, you are already an experienced administrator with a very long internship, so I don't think I should tell you that in fact the exact numbers for what else needs to be achieved are perhaps the most important. The question is: what are the goals that we set for ourselves? Are the goals that we set for ourselves as a society to move things somewhere and do something, or are we looking for clarity about what we need to achieve? There's no way that if you don't know the exact numbers of what the volume is that we have to do, you have to know how it has to end. There's no way to manage a process where you don't know the volumes. This is one of the things that I do, and you will sooner or later have to start sleeping and waking up, at least while we are in power, because these people need absolute support every day. Personally, I'm very little involved in my mother's disability, even though I've never issued a TELK and taken care of her, and I know how much money it cost me. And I know that this woman, if she didn't have the care I'm paying right now, would have been in the world a long time ago. However, I can afford to pay for it, and there are millions of Bulgarian citizens who are in my situation and they cannot pay for it. The result is that what happens to their loved ones is kept in statistics as natural causes. Otherwise, it's considered a low life expectancy. That's the result. My request to you is very precise to clarify the numbers and numbers of what needs to be done from now on, because this is your job.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u100	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. The next question to Minister Sacheva, again by the National Representative Anton Kutev, is about the implementation of provisions of the Personal Aid Act. You have the floor, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u101	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Sacheva! I'm asking this question on purpose right now. By the way, the previous question I had planned to turn it into a debate because there is something to debate and I am convinced that it would be something that would be noticed by both the media and the citizens. I did not do it now with the idea that you are relatively recent and need a little more time, but, believe me, this debate, and in very serious forms of it, will take place soon at the end of this parliamentary season, because there is a lot of work to be done, and I will insist that it be at least moved properly. On the occasion of the Personal Aid Act, he is actually part of everything we have spoken. The questions I have asked you here are: how many disabled people need a personal assistant? How many personal assistants are needed to assist people with disabilities because they are probably different? And how many funds per year are needed for this? I know that it has grown there, for example, from 14 to 20 thousand, that thanks to certain movements in the last year, personal assistants have increased. What I'm asking is: what are the needs, that is not how much they have grown, well, if they have grown, then more people have the opportunities. The question is: what are the needs and what are your plans to deal with these needs specifically in the context of the Personal Aid Act? Because you've allowed yourself to make a few suggestions about the Personal Aid Act, what it decides and what it doesn't. Yeah, he doesn't solve all the problems. He doesn't have any idea how to solve all the problems. However, it had to be budgeted, and this year it was not budgeted, which is illegal, by the way, because this law had to have its budget security for 2020, which it did not receive. And now you're going to attack the Law for one simple reason, and you don't have the money to do it, and that you don't have the money to do it, I can understand it. I mean, I can understand if you tell me some billions of large sums that you can't take out now. But if you can't get them out, not going to solve the problem, you may not be able to separate a billion from the state right now, you may be able to separate 200 or 300 million, but instead, going back and breaking the Law is a gross mistake. That's what I think you're trying to do. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Once again, I apologize, Mr President: how many people with disabilities need a personal assistant in accordance with the Personal Aid Act? How many personal assistants are needed because sometimes there are people who probably need three, as well as my mother, to have an eight-hour day at work? And what funds are needed annually to provide personal assistants to all disabled people?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u102	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Madam Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u103	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kutev, I will try to answer all of your questions in the short time if there is no opportunity, I will use the back. The Personal Aid Act, since we started from there, was adopted despite the lack of public consultation on the matter it regulates; of public support, including those directly affected; of a financial justification for the effect on public resources and, not least, that negative opinions were expressed by the directly involved state authorities in its enforcement. The Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The subject of the Personal Aid Act is to set out the terms and conditions for the provision and use of personal assistance by people with disabilities. This type of assistance is regulated as a mechanism based on state-sponsored financial support for the individual needs and choices of people with disabilities. The actual grant of funding started from 1 September 2019. According to the reporting data by the social support authorities from 1 April 2019 to 24 January 2020, applications for individual needs assessment have submitted 266 217 persons, and in 28 401 of the cases a need for inclusion in the personal assistance mechanism has been requested. You know that the provision of personal assistants takes into account not only the regulatory requirements and documents imposed, but also at the request of the persons concerned. Therefore, by 27 January 2020, a request, respectively, for employment contracts, was concluded with 19 461 assistants to provide the necessary assistant support to users. The number of contracts terminated for the period is 2099. There is an implementation of the operational processes envisaged despite existing challenges. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. BGN, as they would reach 23 400 users. At the same time, such a financial resource is also set within the medium-term budgetary forecast. I take this opportunity to point out that by 30 June 2020, the Ministry must prepare an analysis of the granting of the mechanism for personal assistance and submit to the National Assembly a report containing proposals to improve legislation in this area. What you are putting as a question is actually related to personal assistants and to the support that people need. What I am saying is that the Personal Aid Act does not regulate all needs and that it needs to be improved........................................................................... Currently, the opportunities for using personal assistants are several, both through this law and through municipal programs, as well as through the projects for patronage care of the Operational Program "Human Resources Development" and last but not least, with the adopted by the government a week ago National program for providing care in the home environment, which will provide assistants for another 987 people with 80 and 89,9% type and degree of disability, and 4655 elderly people over 65 years, without the possibility of self-employed people who are excluded at the moment from the scope of the Personal Aid Act. Even if all his limitations fall, these elderly people are simply not in this law. What I mentioned yesterday in the possibility of commenting on the subject is that, according to preliminary estimates, in order to implement the full scope of the Personal Aid Act, some 900 million are needed. lv. Given that, at present, the legislation relating to support and social inclusion is highly fragmented, the opinion and the proposal that I am making is to go towards codifying legislation so that we have a based approach that is systemic and synergistic and ultimately enable all kinds of support for people with disabilities to be able to find common, unified legislation. Finally, in addition to its reply, the deferred provisions in the adopted Social Services Act should be carefully analysed, as the lasting solution to the problem of personal assistants is also enshrined in the texts of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u104	Thank you, Madam Secretary. A line, dear Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u105	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! Let me draw your attention to the fact that we have all been fans of so-called codification legislation. I, too, was convinced at some point that the place of matter which governs the Law on Personal Aid was in the Law on Social Services. The problem is that the government you belong to and the political party you represent didn't do it when you had to. This had to be done according to the plan, which was adopted by GERB in 2012 until 2016 in the Social Services Act. And then there wouldn't be a Personal Aid Act! That is, the very appearance of the Personal Aid Act was the result of the very severe delay in these processes at the time. And now, from now on, whether you're going to codify them, which in your language means that you're going to break one law to get it into the other, but you're going to cut it off on the way and there's nothing left of it, or there's going to be a little bit left, this job won't work. She's not gonna get up! And remember the mechanisms by which all this happened a year and a half ago. Be assured that these people are people with disabilities, no matter how many steps have been taken, and I note that steps have been made... I'm not saying these steps are wrong. That's right. But these steps that our society has made for people with disabilities are minimal. The insult and willingness of disabled people to go out on the street is real. She's not over it. And if you go to what I see you're planning, under the logic of codifying to spoil what was built so that you can rethink it, because at the moment the finance minister, obviously, a little later, felt exactly how much the Personal Aid Act is worth, and so now we have to break it... No, we're not gonna ruin it! What we're gonna do is we're gonna do it. We'll do it this year if we have to! That'll be our assignment. And don't even think that it's possible to go the other way! I guarantee you I see this society, I know this society, and I guarantee you that the problems you will face are huge!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u106	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. We are continuing with Mr. Krasimir Valchev, Minister of Education and Science. He will answer a question from the National Representative Elena Pesheva regarding the admission of NGOs to conduct sexual education classes. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Pesheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u107	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Before I get to the point, I'd like to share with you that after this case in Pernik, very worried parents contacted me. They wrote comments, some of them sent opinions, and I have made a personal commitment to them to convey two of them to you. [[Passing to the Minister documents.]] My question is about allowing NGOs to hold sexual education classes. On the occasion of the case in Pernik and the sexual education of the children, please answer the following questions: why are suspicious NGOs allowed to conduct sexual education classes in schools? Who authorized such insanity without being informed of the parents? Is this a mass practice, or is this a case in separate schools? How does the Ministry of Education control these institutions? Are there sexual education classes in the program of the Ministry of Education, in which class, who is authorized to conduct them and how the Ministry of Education corrects their content? It is against various NGOs to be allowed into schools and to conduct vague trainings! The P.W.L.S. Foundation in question is a champion of gender ideologies, a strategy for the child, and expressed their full support for the Istanbul Convention, which was declared unconstitutional. We of Volya have always defended traditional family values and Bulgarian families. We have signaled and opposed various cases that are contrary to them. We'll keep doing it from now on!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Pesheva. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u109	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Pesheva! There are two parts in my answer "The first one is specific for the case in Pernik, the second one in total for sexual education in Bulgarian schools. In the present case, the authorisation was granted by the Head of the Pernik Regional Government. What I have as information is that all parents have given their informed consent. Moreover, since yesterday, we have a declaration in which parents insist on continuing this training, that is, it did not happen without the parents'knowledge. According to the regulations in the sector, this is also the case with the mandatory presence of the classroom supervisor. The original leak was from the same family. It was not confirmed by any other parent. In that sense, we don't have anything to worry about. That's what our background check showed, our research. We cannot approach all non-profit legal entities with the presumption of guilt just because they are working with children because they have supported the Istanbul Convention. This does not mean, however, that we should not approach with increased dose of suspicion and caution. That is exactly what I ask the heads of regional governments not to be the initiators. For this reason, I sent a letter last year in which I specified their obligations in such cases. I have clearly told them that they should not allow lectures, meetings, trainings with children of any outsider who encourage children and students to determine their sexual identity, contain materials that conflict with good manners, impose other controversial educational doctrines, preach violence, intolerance, discrimination, disrespect. For this must be the teachers, directors, regional management and the Ministry, which should also be notified and solved each particular case. On the other hand, we want to expand the educational environment of children. We want there to be more external specialists in the schools. This can be coaches, artists, writers, public figures, people from the real sector who will help develop the abilities, interests, skills of children. This is what we do primarily in the context of interest activities, but sometimes also in class. We even have several national programmes in the school education system that encourage this. The education system cannot be closed. As a minister, I would say even more as a parent, I would also like to have external specialists, but this to be done with guarantees that it will not be abused by the age of children, or by their status as students, because it is done at school. Sexual education should be there and there is in the Bulgarian school, but not as an independent subject it is part of the health education, from the study of biology. Accordingly, at the beginning we have several sub-topics that are primarily related to biology: biological characteristics of gender and so on. They are in the discipline of Man and Nature. However, there should be no early sexual education, and there is none in this sense in which some organizations speculate that there is one in preschool age. Sexual education should be consistent with the age of the child. What we can say about our curricula, about the standard that is in Regulation No 13 on civil, health, environmental and intercultural education, is that we cannot talk about having a sexual education at an early stage. Rather, the discussion here may be whether it is too late given the information environment in which today's children and all of us live. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'll continue with the answer in the second part.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u110	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Pesheva, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u111	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Minister, I fully agree with you that education should be open and that children should have access to different specialists. Here, however, the issue is a little more complicated because this program, which was at the school in Pernik, is related precisely to sexual education and rather the part about how children should protect themselves from violence, which is a very delicate topic. In our opinion, there should be more control over what foundations teach in schools. There must be a clear regulation which institution is responsible for people who teach sexual education. I'll give an example of one of the people who wrote me. He asked me the following question: why, in order to teach at school, must you have a censure and the relevant education, and in fact these NGOs who are allowed to train our children, do they have such a censure, do they have the right to teach? As a parent, I would be much more relaxed when an educator conducts his curriculum, or the specialist in which I have allowed my child to be trained, to have the particular censure and accordingly the program in question to be consistent with the age of the child. As you yourself said, last year against the backdrop of all those polls that they had released, for which we at the Vola had once again issued a signal, you issued such an order. Here comes the question: once regional governments approve of such a programme and have not agreed with the Ministry of Education, where does control go? This was the question you did not answer: how does the Ministry control the access of these NGOs to schools to have the opportunity to teach our children? WE OF WALK are concerned about people, and this is our main concern about how control is carried out and who really has access to our children? There must be a definite sexual education, and it must be foreseen with the age of the children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u112	Thank you, dear Mrs. Pesheva. Dear Minister, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The control mechanisms are through the people employed in the system, the classroom managers, the teachers, the educators. If such activities are carried out during the full-time organization of the school day, the directors are most responsible for everything that happens in their school and regional governments too. Once again, in this case, the head of regional management has clearly not violated anything, but has initiated the training and is expected to carry out this control, to give this side view, to exercise caution. He can't do it because he's the initiator himself. That's the reason I'm holding the head of the regional government responsible for this case. We don't have any other cases like this in the system right now. We've looked into it. Balance is really very delicate. It should be studied for each topic, for each program. We need to raise children in this, teach them to protect themselves from sexual violence, but without crossing certain limits. It should be professionally handled, again I say, with an increased dose of caution in assessing each program. In this case, maybe the best look at teachers, school psychologists, parents. They are all adamant that this limit has not been crossed and they want to continue the training. It's almost over, as I understand it, only one or two hours left, but the matter has become a matter of principle. There is no doubt that each time should be conducted with the consent of the parents, a hundred percent of the parents, without any exception, in the presence of the teacher, another teacher or educator. In Pernik the remaining two hours will be held in the presence of an expert of the Regional Government. It's our responsibility to pre-control. Everyone has their responsibility. I hope this will be a signal to other regional governments as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u114	Thank you, dear Minister. Thank you for participating in the parliamentary control. We continue with questions to Mr. Emil Dimitrov, Minister of Environment and Water. The first question to him is from the MP Anastas Popdimitrov about the tragic state of the dump in the district of Bistrits. You have the floor to ask the question, dear Mr. Popdimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! At the end of the town of Vratsa, in the picturesque district of Bistrits, at the foot of the protected territory of Vrachanski Balkan, which is also a water-drinking area, is located a dump that has become a dump today. This dump was closed and sealed in the late 1990s, when the first stage of the newly built dump near Costalevo was opened, then someone decided to reopen it by the municipal administration as a waste dump. Over the years, no longer construction waste, but household waste, driven even by cars of local BCC (Brago Building and Communist Economy) are poured out tons, tons, and tons of trash! This dump has reached the E-79 international road itself, its banquet, and it is currently a terrifying sight of billions of bags, dirt, junk that the strong wind carries across the road to the other side where there are swimming pools, restaurants. It's a nightmare! My question is: is there any way you can get RIEWs to Vratsa and the municipal administration to do their job? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u116	Thank you, dear Mr. Popdimitrov. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, honourable Mr. Popdimitrov, honourable members of the Committee on Environment and Water in Parliament! You have rightly said the years in these years many governments, many governments, many municipal councils. I don't think I'm the one who came here to pile this stuff up. The whole time someone was watching him and someone had to be sanctioned. I can tell from now on what we're gonna do. I'll send the officials to sanction, but the last mayor can't be in charge of everything that happens years ago. It won't be very fair either. As far as the dumps are concerned, I can generally say about the whole country. They came, they wanted, they got money, they made one cell, two cells, three cells. They are intended for 10. 15 years, for seven years, a different period. When they were doing the projects, they decided that this cell would be enough for, like, 10 years. Four years go by and they start to say: "Ama, please, let us have another one, because this one has been filled. "A huge problem is in Bulgaria and in the next questions I will touch it that we only deposit. Just a little recycle and separate, make these huge pyramids of waste that we then bury. Then we begin to say: " See how difficult the situation is. This is another case. Because if those biological waste that you said had gone to the new dump, it wouldn't have run out in a year, and it probably would have run out last year. This does not mean that in any city cell intended for 10 years, when it runs out on the fourth one, someone has to run fast and give money for another cell. We don't have installations, we don't use installations when the projects are done, and we want them to be. We have mayors who have installations, and they don't use them. This is also related to the burning of waste. We say we want 50 of ours, we say we let 50 of ours come from abroad. We're all looking at those from abroad, and no one's asking, why don't our 50% go to the factories? Because they're gone. [[Relations from the National Representative Anastas Popdimitrov.]] Just Sophia and one or two more places. And the industry that burns waste says exactly this thing: what happens and why the Bulgarian waste, the Bulgarian RDF is gone? Specifically on the subject. The land property in the locality is located 50 meters from the main road, not bordered by the road. Until 2005, an inert and non-hazardous waste depot owned by Vratsa Municipality was operating. On 6 February 2020, experts of the Regional Inspectorate carried out an extraordinary inspection and found that aggregates and land masses were accumulated on the field. An act of the EcoProject Ltd., the company that owns the property is established. In addition, provisions have been given for the cessation of unregulated disposal of waste and inert materials and for action to be taken by the end of this month as planned. The inspection also carried out the scope of the plots of private property within the regulatory boundaries of the settlement bordering the main road E-79. Mixed waste, mainly construction, has been found. In this regard, the Municipality of Vratsa has been given a prescription to take cleaning measures and to exercise enhanced control to prevent subsequent contamination. A strict follow-up to the provisions of the Vratsa Municipality will be carried out by the RIEWs, and the administrative criminal measures provided for in the environmental legislation will be taken in case of failure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u118	Thank you, dear Minister. A line, dear Popdimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, my question to you is that you are currently a minister, not that you are guilty of what happened there. The truth is that household waste there began to appear in the last three or four years. The truth is that the work of RIEWs is clear that there are problems for Vratsa, even for an incompetent layman like me. This was the case with the crisis in the Chimko, so it was with the waste crisis in the yard of the Miziya combination, so it was with the 50 tons for which the RIEW Vratsa is moving after events, understands from somewhere about the problem, goes, registers it. It's the same with red mercury now. We're waiting for someone else to find the problem or make a decision. Thank you for saying that there will be sanctions for the admitted state. Imagine, this is a region that should be developed thanks to tourism. Imagine how you're moving along E-79, which is in an absolutely emergency state with holes, with unclean ditches, with broken boards, careful or not to burst a tire, or not to break the rim, and at this point you find yourself in a nightmare of trash dripping at you, almost like Pinocchio in the woods of horrors. Then the tourist will not only not come back, but I think he will run away from this place. My request is to strengthen your efforts, to activate the work in the competences of the RIEW, which in recent months has shown that it is simply not doing its job in the area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u120	Thank you. A hole, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You obviously misunderstand me. [[Relations from the National Representative Anastas Popdimitrov.]] You obviously misunderstand something. It is good to dramatize from the stands what is happening in Vratsa, it is good to tell what are the roads, although I am not in charge of the roads, it is good to say how sad it is when you pass this dump, only this dump belongs to your fellow citizens. It's nice to list red mercury, it's nice to list the plant. Didn't you know in this town that before it became a tourist center, there was a chemical plant? Didn't you know there was an industry there? Didn't you know that this industry was privatized and all the waste was left at the factory? I apologize, during what term did all these things come out of there that you've listed? They are not thanks to the fact that you have said that they exist, but because the state has taken action. No one, when it was the no-confidence vote, came out to say: "Yes, there was a lot of waste that was from agriculture, which was from an industry that had long been bankrupt. " - All these things were collected and exported. Yeah, it didn't happen the minute you wanted it or anyone else would have. These things went abroad and were neutralized. You now, if you want to, and this thing to say that it belongs to someone other than the institutions in Bulgaria?! I think that was their credit. It's happened before me, good for these people, but now to go out and say how sad and heavy it is there is not the fault of the RIEW. This waste wasn't placed by the RIEW over there. They'll enforce the acts, they've imposed them over the years, but isn't it the executive power over the years that ran out of them?! Otherwise, I can dramatize a lot of things, too, but I don't think that's the way to do it. Let's be objective. What happens there shouldn't happen and I'll order checks. What's happened over the years, I couldn't take it back in time now, but I can check it out. All the things that have happened now to list them, almost to say that all of this just happened by itself. [[Relations from the National Representative Anastas Popdimitrov.]] It's happening right now that all the waste that was there was taken out of the plant. What's happening right now is that all that's left is gone. I'm sorry, it's your fault that you just said it here that it exists, but the whole town knew it. Including I have an employee who constantly writes letters to himself, about whom the entire department has said he doesn't want to work with him, but because he's your sacred cow, he keeps him there at work. It's happening all over the country, it's not just there. What I'm going to do, which I can take as a commitment, is act by the mayors and all the institutions responsible for these waste. But what happened in the years, I can't with a magic wand. Let us, when we reproach an institution, acknowledge that both over the years and over the past year, the mines have been exported to another place, in third place dangerous poisons have been treated along the sea. Let's mention these things to each other in a reasonable tone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u122	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question to Minister Dimitrov is from the National Representative Mladen Shishkov on the exploitation of the Depot for non-hazardous waste and an installation for biological degradation by closed method in the territory of the village of Shishmantsi, municipality of Rakovski, Plovdiv district. Please, Mr. Shishkov, ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Obviously, the waste issue is extremely important and painful for our society. It is clear that it does not have a party decoration, and that is why my question is related to this topic..... during the conversation we are having so far. About ten years ago on the territory of the village of Shishmantsi, Rakovski municipality, was put into operation with some large expected plant for treatment of domestic waste, namely the Depot for non-hazardous waste and plants for biological degradation by closed method. This facility was waiting to solve the major problems surrounding the waste crisis at the time. Its construction was accompanied by a number of scandals, suspicions of abuse, public discontent, and in general the whole process was encased in some mystery. Unfortunately, after a number of meetings with civil society, meetings between the institutions, individual municipalities, commitments were made for transparent work, for environmentally friendly work. All these promises, however, remained in the area of wishes. Very precise and clear commitments were made, which ten years later have not yet been fulfilled. Moreover, in the summer of 2019 another incident occurred, and it was a severe accident.. the dump once again set itself on fire, resulting in very severe damage to the environment and to the health of the people. At that time, public discontent escalated and protests were organised by local residents who were supported by the local authorities. Then Minister Neno Dimov made a commitment to society, as a discussion was held, to implement a number of measures that will improve the operation of the plant. In this regard, my questions to you are several. I want to apologize to my colleagues for taking a little more time, but they are important and I will read them in detail. What sanctions have been imposed on the operator of the facility during the entire period of operation? At what stage is the amendment of the complex permit in relation to its synchronization with the technology project? The commitment was to ban the disposal of more than 30% of waste, as approved by Rakovski Municipality's technological scheme, is it working on this issue? Is the cause of the spill from the restension pool established? What were the environmental impacts due to the spill? Has this irregularity been removed? Is a system for continuous video surveillance of the process with access by Rakovski Municipality and RIEW Municipality, as already stated in the law? If this system is not built, are sanctions imposed under the law? Is condition 9.4.2 of the complex permit implemented, namely "Soon after the disposal of waste, at the end of the working day, the holder of this permit to block the day-to-day working area of the depot?'? Have fire safety measures been implemented, namely thermal cameras, watering system, fire installation? What is the state of the geomembrane and the infiltration system of the depot after another fire? Were there any damage and were they removed? What are the results of regular soil, air and water measurements in the region, as well as the results immediately after the last fire? Is there a system for continuous monitoring of environmental components in the area of the facility and neighbouring settlements? If it is not built, is it intended to be included as a mandatory condition in the amendment of the complex permit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u124	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to answer so many questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Shishkov, the easiest answer is that I fully agree with everything you have said, but I will also give you the written answer. I'll try to read quickly, because time is short. According to information from the Regional Environmental and Water Inspectorate Plovdiv, the Municipality of Plovdiv for failure to comply with the conditions laid down in the Complex permit No 380 of 2009 were drawn up acts establishing an administrative infringement in 2010 and 2019, i.e. they continue. The decision was issued in 2010 for a capital charge. In 2019, a criminal decree is to be issued for the draft act. In 2017, a measure was drawn up as an operator of a facility to establish infringements for failure to comply with the requirements of the Water Act and a criminal decree was issued. In September 2018, MOEW informed the mayor of the municipality in Plovdiv of the necessity of opening a procedure for reviewing the complex permit in relation to the publication of new conclusions of the best available waste treatment techniques and installations within nine months from 17 August 2018. This period expired on 17 May 2019 and there is no reaction from the Municipality. On the occasion of letters of the Ministry of Environment, RIEW of September 2019, the Executive Environment Agency is launching a review of the complex permit. Information is required from the operator several times to demonstrate the application of best available techniques during the months of September and November 2019 and has not been received. Following another letter of December 2019 on 9 January 2020, the Municipality of Plovdiv presented the requested information to the Executive Agency, which was sent to RIEW Plovdiv and to the Swimming Directorate for Opinions with a deadline of 18 February. Upon receipt of the opinions, meetings and consultations will be organised in the Executive Environment Agency. During the checks carried out on 22 August 2019 east of Box No 2 of the non-hazardous waste depot, spillage of infiltrators outside the landfill and the recovery pool was detected, which constitutes a failure to comply with the condition 10.1.2.1 of the complex permit. An act establishing an administrative infringement was drawn up on the Municipality of Plovdiv. In relation to the spill detected by experts of the Regional Laboratory in Plovdiv, soil samples from the agricultural land to the east of the pool were taken. No deviations were identified from the soil test results obtained. On 23 January 2020, when carrying out a joint inspection with an inspector from the Economic Police Department at the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior and an expert of the Regional Directorate of National Security, in connection with a letter of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria, it was found that there was no system for continuous video surveillance of the process. It is prescribed that the legal requirements relating to the construction of such a system are met. In the event of non-compliance with the prescription administrative criminal measures will be taken. No infringements have been detected since the verification carried out in respect of the fulfilment of the condition of day-to-day clogging of the day-to-day working area. The installation has a plan to ensure fire safety and irrigation system. Fire safety is subject to control by the authorities of the Territorial Directorate Fire safety and protection of the population. Since the joint inspections carried out in September 2019 following the last August fire on the fulfilment of the conditions and time limits of the Complex permit No 380 of 2009, no discrepancies have been found. In the area of the site an automatic measuring station for measuring the quality of the ambient air shall not be operated. During the last fire that occurred between 14 August 2019 and 19 August 2019, measurement was carried out with a mobile automatic station according to basic indicators that characterized the quality of the ambient air. The results of the measurements show an excess of the mid-day limit according to the fine particle benchmark on 14 and 15 August 2019. No excesses were found in the following days. On 22 August, a check was carried out in which soil samples were taken. Within the immediate vicinity of the installation there is no system for continuous monitoring of the components of the environment. During the review procedure of the complex permit and in case the Executive Environment Agency receives a legally reasoned opinion from RIEW Plovdiv, and the Municipality will assess the possibility of adding additional conditions to the complex permit to build a system for continuous monitoring of the components of the environment.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u126	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, dear Mr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I would like to thank you for your quick, comprehensive and accurate information. And I will take this opportunity to congratulate you once again on the efforts you are making to introduce more control over environmental components, and in general everything that has been happening lately in the field of ecology. The aim of my present inquiry was to draw your attention to this facility, as the problems there are obviously many, and my request to you is to make a serious on-the-spot inspection and to establish what stage of activity it is currently at. Of course, this issue is related to the fact that the operation of the facility directly affects the lives and health of the inhabitants of several municipalities. Residents of the town of Rakovski and neighbouring municipalities have the right to be informed, to have a normal and good life related to the environment. To conclude, I would like to assure you that you have the full support of the local authorities, as well as my personal support as a Member of the National Assembly, in all the decisive actions you will take from now on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u128	Thank you, dear Mr. Shishkov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u129	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov, for your support. The problem with you is almost all over the country and we have to solve it together. I hope that both your legislative initiative and support our wishes will be changed in this direction. At all sites there is a waste disposal that is once created, then there is a problem with closure. We become hostages to these people or their heirs or to the companies they've transferred them to. We're starting to struggle with a problem that we've created ourselves, solving this playground once. It's the same with these regional depots. Of course, it was a timely measure to shut down the locals, to reclamate themselves, and in this direction it is constantly being worked, we continue to close down such old depots. It was nice to have such regionals, so to process the waste, that it was to be separated at 60. 65% for recycling and reuse, the rest to go for burning RDF and only 10% to be buried. Then these regional reserves will also be able to exist a much longer period, much easier to block each time and there will be much less environmental damage. In this way, the situation that we have made a problem of ten places, we have brought it together, but we are not solving it to the maximum extent, and perhaps the legislation should be a little more restrictive. These are all sites that need to be reviewed. You'll have my support and we'll go to a place to see him. I will send the competent institutions to check, but this problem also exists for several other similar regional depots, only tossing piles, spending the resources of the landfill in much less time than there should be and the problem that we have solved five, six years ago thanks to the ministers who have had the honour to be before me, now suddenly comes with a major force. We share the same problem with each other much more often than it should be. In this regard, you have my full support, and I would be happy to cooperate with both you and the opposition, because this is a universal problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u130	Thank you, dear Minister. And the last question to Minister Dimitrov. It is the last for parliamentary control today and is one of the MPs Veska Nencheva, Violeta Jeleva and Kristina Sidorova on National Park. Ms. Nencheva, you have the floor to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u131	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Minister, in connection with another tragic incident with tourists in the National Park "Central Balkan" and taking into account the opinions of the people working in the National Park "Central Balkan" (Central Balkan) who are members of various tourist companies in the region, experienced mountaineers, including volunteers whose main work is not related to working in the mountain, which takes time in working in the mountain and rescue actions, we think it is possible and necessary to strengthen the safety measures in the National Park "Central Balkan" (Central Balkan). In this sense, there were speeches by representatives of the local authorities. The general opinion is that personal preparation, responsibility and good equipment is the commitment of every tourist.. this is a fact, but the care and maintenance of shelters or bunkers on heavy routes is also the care of the state. Moreover, the media has announced a high state level readiness to build new such shelters. The fact is that there are such shelters along the route, but they are outdated and poorly maintained. In this sense is also our question: are there any changes in the measures and conditions for ensuring the safety of tourists in the transitions on the regulated routes in the National Parks of Central Balkan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u132	Thank you, dear Ms. Nencheva. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u133	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Ms. Nencheva, Ms. Zheleva, Mrs. Sidorova, National Park "Central Balkan" has an area of 72 thousand acres and covers the highest part of Central Balkan Mountains. The park is located on the territory of five administrative districts, nine municipalities and thirty lands. The regulated hiking routes in the park area are 69 and their total length is over 580 km. Over 100 kilometers of them pass through the reserve territory. For the safe stay of tourists in the park in recent years 15 bridge facilities have been completely restored and renovated, 505 new marking pyramids and iron pathons have been installed and 85 damaged pyramids have been repaired along 11 pedestrian routes. Renewed are rope and steel railings with a total length of 1520 m on sections of eight routes and wooden railings with a total length of 1600 m. The marking of almost all regulated tourist routes in the park is completely renewed and hundreds of new signposts, warning and information signs are placed. A number of dangerous areas have been renovated along the tourist trails. It was created and published on the web site of the park interactive map with GPS coordinates of the routes and sites for shelter and rest for safe stay of visitors in the protected territory. Every year funds are invested in the maintenance of the tourist infrastructure in the park. Over the past five years, 75 rescues have been carried out by the Mountain Rescue Service, and in 60% of these cases, park directorate employees have assisted in providing human resources and logistical assistance. The safety of visitors in the National Park is among the main priorities of the Park Directorate. An application is currently being developed for mobile devices with information about tourist routes, visitor sites and adjoining habitats in the National Park. This will enable the location of the user and the distance to the nearest cabin or site in the National Park to be determined. The app will be able to work without a signal from mobile operators, will show in real time the location of the mobile device on the interactive map preloaded in it. The product will be finished and tested on the ground by the end of April 2020 and will be free for consumers. The initiative is also under way to repair the existing two shelters in the region of Botev peak and together with the Mountain Rescue Service and the tourist companies discuss the need to build new ones, and it is of great importance that visitors realise their own responsibility for their safety and conservation of the territory. Here, I would like to add something from myself, except for the answer, let us learn and guard. They put metal railings in, then they disappear. They put up metal signboards, then they disappear. They make shelters and they break down to glow and warm up. We do not always guard and we cannot always restore everything everywhere at the same time, but in my opinion, the management of Central Balkan is subject to the necessary and sufficient conditions to ensure safe working conditions. If someone wants us to lie down with mattresses and pillows the whole route someone doesn't trip it's out of our purview. But what we're doing, I think it's enough, I think it's okay. There is always more to be done, and I accept as a good proposal your question to sharpen the attention of the management of Central Park to continue with its efforts and, of course, if there are others willing to participate in this activity, they are always welcome to the Balkan is at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u134	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Sidorova, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u135	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. I would like to confirm my and my colleague's opinion that this issue is really more of a talk about mountain rescue, about safety on mountain routes, and really the subject of getting into the media, to have more shelters, more places where people who have suffered in some way in the mountains can take shelter. We are fully aware that when you go on a transition into the mountain, even more during the winter period, the responsibility you assume for your survival is mainly yours. And dozens of shelters and cabins to make the country when you're not well equipped, when you're not well equipped, and when you don't comply with the metrological conditions, there's a very high probability of getting hurt. Our question to you was rather about the possibilities and the need to create, repair and, above all, maintenance of already existing rescue shelters. You said two of them. The media found out there was a conversation between the mayor of Kalofer and the Prime Minister about creating more. True, the Central Balkan Directorate and the Ministry of Environment and Water will support the creation and repair of already existing shelters that can accommodate stranded and poor tourists. Today's parliamentary control is also an occasion to address the need for more funds, more independence and better conditions for people on whom rescue and search in the mountains directly depends. I remind you that they are volunteers who risk their lives to save another man. Let us thank them and let the state think in dialogue with them how it can help their activities, because no matter how much information campaigns are done, no matter how many times you hear the warning that the time is not right for mountain transitions and that in order to climb one or another peak, you have to have good training, there will always be people who will risk their lives and who will rely precisely on the activities of these voluntary teams. Here is the moment to remind again and call on the state to fulfill an obligation, namely to purchase a medical helicopter that helps in rescue operations. I will not quote how many times this medical helicopter has been talked about, how many petitions have been made, signatures have been collected and how many human lives could have been saved if the state had such a medical helicopter. Once again we thank the people who save lives in the mountains and hope that the state in the face of the Ministry of Environment and Water will do what is necessary for more shelters, safer walks and safer experiences in the mountains.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u136	Thank you. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Sidorova, I fully agree with everything you've said. And the best prepared tourist, and the best dressed, and the best informed, if he gets any heart problem, some health problem, hopes others will come to save him. These others are the lifeguards, many of them volunteer. Similarly, there is the issue of Rila, where one of GERB MPs has been trying to build a shelter for three years, but it is in a protected area and has a problem. Although the money is provided by the Ministry of Environment and Water, we can never get to the final version of the information center to have two rooms right for these rescuers, because they say: we, by leaving Dupnitsa or Sapareva bath until we get to the top, the outcome is not always the positive and only bring people down in a helpless state. While if our equipment is up on the Balkan, and we have constant duty, that would make it a lot easier for us. The question is similar in the Balkan Mountains. There must be more shelters. We must give the necessary assistance to all these volunteers to be taken upstairs to the Balkan so that they can really help when a person is in need. Because when a person needs one, he's helpless, he relies on the other. With regard to the helicopter, I don't know if it's my jurisdiction. It's a good idea, but usually problems happen when the weather for flying isn't very good. But in terms of sleigh collateral, with other options, I think it can be helped, and above all to increase the shelters, as you said, to maintain them. They are the responsibility of all of us and we must take care of them. And maybe we should encourage these volunteers in some way, because they, as I said, spend both their time and their health, the opportunity to be with their loved ones, to go up to the Balkan, to help, and with that they are beneficial to the whole society. As far as the Ministry of Environment and Water is concerned, I assure you that we will take all possible care to assist any such environmental path, any such shelter, of course, with strict compliance with the requirements of all the organisations Once again, I assure you that I will help in any way to protect these shelters and expand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-14.u138	Thank you for participating in the parliamentary control today, Mr. Minister. Colleagues, this was the last question to Minister Dimitrov. Next regular plenary session on 19 February 2020, Wednesday, at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
