ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-15.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. I would like to inform you that, as soon as the first item is completed, we will continue with parliamentary control. Colleagues, we're going to point one: THE LAW FOR THE RATEFICING OF THE SIXTH SUPPLEMENTARY. TO THE MULTINATIONAL MINOR FORCE AGREEMENT IN JUGO EAST EUROPOPA. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 12 March 2020. The Defense Committee report will introduce us to Mr. Popov. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-15.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe to the Defence Committee on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Sixth Additional Protocol to the Agreement on the Multinational Peace Forces in South East Europe, No 002-02-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 March 2020. At a meeting held on 14 May 2020, the Defence Committee discussed the Draft Law on the ratification of the Sixth Additional Protocol to the Agreement on the Multinational Peace Forces in South East Europe, No 002-02-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 March 2020. 18 MPs participated in the meeting. The bill and its motives were presented by the Deputy Minister of Defence Anatoly Velichkov. The sixth protocol is an amendment to an already ratified military-political treaty, as is the Agreement on the Multinational Peace Forces in Southeast Europe, signed on 26 September 1998 in Skopje. The sixth Additional Protocol reflects the amendments necessary and agreed between the Parties to the Agreement so far and the five Additional Protocols thereto as a result of the withdrawal of Italy from the Agreement in 2015. The Preamble of the Agreement, Annexes 2 and 3 to Annex A, Annex B, as well as Annexes 3, 4 and 5 to Annex C, which generally reflect structural and organisational changes and redistribution of certain positions to be occupied by the Parties. A new Annex F governing the order of accession to the Agreement of States in the region has been prepared and negotiated. The amendments do not lead to a change of the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the initiative with additional powers and funds, as additional commitments have not been made and no positions have been negotiated outside the posts occupied so far. The sixth Additional Protocol to the Agreement on the Multinational Peace Forces in South East Europe is subject to ratification by law of the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Chairman of the Defence Committee, People's Representative Konstantin Popov pointed out that the Multinational Peace Forces have been operating for more than 20 years. They receive their development as a result of the agreement reached by the main countries of the region, and the Bulgarian contribution and insistence for their creation are indisputable. There is no doubt that, despite some difficulties of organizational and financial nature and the related process of making a political decision to activate the South East Europe Brigade, the Multinational Forces are today an important factor for stability and security in the region. He pointed out that in the period 6 February 6 August 2006, the Brigade participated in the International Security Assistance Force Mission (ISAF) and Mission "Resolute SUMPORT MISSION (RSM) in Afghanistan. In his speech, the people's representative Kolyu Milev voiced support for ratification, pointing out that the Mechanized Brigade "South East Europe" is a sign for Bulgaria because of its efforts, its contribution to regional cooperation and the experience gained in a multinational environment by a number of officers, sergeants and soldiers from the Bulgarian Army. During the subsequent vote, the Defence Committee with 18 votes for........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-15.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. The second report belongs to the Committee on Foreign Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-15.u4	Mrs. Grozdanova, happy birthday!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-15.u5	Congratulations! Mr. Tanev, would you like to introduce us to the Foreign Policy Committee Report?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-15.u6	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Sixth Additional Protocol to the Agreement on the Multinational Peace Forces in South East Europe, No 002-02-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 March 2020. At a meeting held on 14 May 2020, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Sixth Additional Protocol to the Agreement on the Multinational Peace Forces in South East Europe, signed on 12 June 2019 in Skopje, the Republic of Northern Macedonia. The reasons for the bill were presented by Anatoly Velichkov, Deputy Minister of Defence. The Agreement on the Multinational Peace Forces in South East Europe was signed on 26 September 1998 in Skopje by the Defence Ministers of the Republic of Albania, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Hellenic Republic, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Northern Macedonia, Romania and the Republic of Turkey. Following its ratification by law, the agreement has been in force since 27 November 1999. The Agreement regulates the establishment and operation of the "South East Europe" Brigade as a multi-national military formation. The initiative was implemented within the process "Meeting the defence ministers from the countries in Southeast Europe." The Multinational Brigade of South East Europe shall carry out peacekeeping, peace building and humanitarian operations under the mandate of the UN or OSCE under NATO or EU leadership. The sixth Additional Protocol to the Agreement reflects the necessary amendments to the Agreement and the five Additional Protocols thereto imposed by the withdrawal of the Italian Republic from the Agreement in 2015. Re-negotiation is the subject of the pre-amble of the agreement and its annexes, taking into account the need to resolve issues related to the functioning of the Headquarters of the Multi-national Brigade of the South East Europe. A new annex has been prepared after 2015. A new annex has been prepared which regulates the order for accession to the agreement of NATO countries or participating in the Partnership for Peace programme that could contribute to the initiative. The Sixth Additional Protocol does not provide for commitments to expand the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the initiative with additional powers and funds, and no additional positions have been agreed beyond those occupied under the Agreement. The sixth Additional Protocol to the Agreement on the Multinational Peace Forces in South East Europe is subject to ratification by law of the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion held and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 13 votes in favour, without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly that the Draft for the ratification of the Sixth Additional Protocol to the Agreement on the Multinational Peace Forces in South East Europe, No 002-02-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 March 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-15.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Tanev. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. There's no desire. I put to the vote the Draft Law on the ratification of the Sixth Additional Protocol to the Agreement on the Multinational Peace Forces in South East Europe, No 002 02 3. Implemented by the Council of Ministers on 12 March 2020. Vote 163 MPs: 158 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Mr. Popov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-15.u8	Madam President, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly propose that the newly adopted Draft at first reading be voted on at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-15.u9	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Please vote on Mr. Popov's procedure. Vote 157 MPs: 154 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-15.u10	Thank you, Madam President. THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Sixth Additional Protocol to the Agreement on the Multinational Peace Forces in South East Europe Sole Article: Ratification of the Sixth Additional Protocol to the Agreement on the Multinational Peace Forces in South East Europe, signed on 12 June 2019 in Skopje, the Republic of Northern Macedonia.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-15.u11	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the name of the Law and the article alone.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-15.u12	Vote 161 MPs: 155 against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Moving on to point two: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva, to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Ivo Hristov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to two questions with written answer from the MPs Boryana Georgieva and Elena Pesheva; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to three questions with written answer from the MPs Hristo Prodanov, Ivo Hristov and Anna Slavova; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva to a question written by the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to two questions with written answer from the National Representative Elena Pesheva. For lack of respectable reasons, Members of the National Assembly shall postpone the responses to: - one question from the National Representative Christian Vigenin to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev; - a question from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov to the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev; - three questions from the National Representative Krastina Taskova to the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mariana Nikolova, to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev and to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Dessislava Taneva. Due to established cases of COVID-19 in the system of the Ministry of Environment and Water, the Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov will not participate in the meeting for parliamentary control. Written answers from: - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva to a question from the MP Ivo Hristov; - Minister of Culture Boel Banov on a question from the National Representative Vezdi Rashidov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on two issues from the National Representative Elena Pesheva; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Elena Pesheva; - written answer from the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the National Representative Elena Pesheva; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on a question from the National Representative Violeta Zheleva; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov on a question from the National Representative Christian Vigenin; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Yavor Bojankov. Dear colleagues, we are beginning the control with Mrs. Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. She will answer a question from the National Representative Valentin Kasabov about the construction of a ring road of the town of Provadia, Varna district. You have the floor, Mr. Kasabov, to ask the question. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-15.u13	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! My question is to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Petya Avramova, namely building a ring road... [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-15.u14	Excuse me, Mr. Kasabov. I have a hot request to all Members of the National Assembly who are discussing matters, let it not be in plenary. Thank you. Continue, please, Mr. Kasabov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-15.u15	Mr. Chairman, my question is about the construction of a ring road of the town of Provadia, Varna region. Dear Minister, I am addressing you on the occasion of completing the important for the people of Provadia around the ring road. For 30 years the state has not been able to find money to build the road facility. This creates extremely serious problems for residents in the second largest city of Varna. The increased traffic, especially heavy goods vehicles, is harassing citizens. The houses and apartments of those living along the main streets of Provadia are ruined. We should note that 60 tons of cars pass at 4 m from people's beds. The streets are narrow, their crossing in such busy traffic is risky, especially for children and adults. The emergency of the plumbing network is a common phenomenon. A number of tanks from the base of Lukoil are passing through the city every day in the village of Asparuhovo, the municipality of Dzhaldopol. For this reason, there are serious concerns that a possible incident could turn Provadia into a new Hitrino. Traffic is next to three schools and two kindergartens. During the summer season the movement towards the beaches Obzor, Byala, Shkorpilovtsi, Kamchia and back...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-15.u16	Please ask the question, Mr. Kasabov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-15.u17	...creates additional traffic jams. Rehabilitation of the Aytos Pass is to be carried out. After repair, it is expected to increase sharply the car flow through Provadia, especially heavy trucks and tanks. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-15.u18	Excuse me, Mr. Kasabov. Colleagues, you're putting me in... Please finish, Mr. Kasabov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-15.u19	In view of this difficult situation, the state, I quote to you a letter from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to Provadia Municipality from May 2017, signed by Minister Nankov then: With regard to the construction of a bypass of the town of Provadia, API considers that its implementation is not appropriate in order to build the highway, which is why at this stage it refrains from taking action on research, development and report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-15.u20	Okay, thank you. It's a clear question. Let us give the floor to Minister Avramova to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-15.u21	Only the specific question is...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-15.u22	Four minutes is up, Mr. Kasabov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-15.u23	You've interrupted me twice.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-15.u24	Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-15.u25	Okay. When and within what deadlines do you think the surrounding road of Provadia will be designed and built? That's my question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-15.u26	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please come in. You have the floor to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-15.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Kasabov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The development of the Republican road network in Bulgaria is part of our overall vision for the deployment of modern European transport infrastructure to ensure connectivity of transport flows and safe movement. It is subject to complex planning and is in line with the priorities that the government's management programme sets itself. In this sense is also the answer of Mr. Nankov regarding the preparation of the investment project for the construction of the Black Sea Motorway. Construction of the surrounding roads in the settlements is an element of this policy, because the roundabouts are undoubtedly the most efficient and effective measure to reduce the harmful effects of noise and emissions from vehicles, as of course to increase traffic safety. The surrounding roads will create real prerequisites for limiting traffic accidents within the locality, and vehicles will have optimal travel rates. We all know that the Republican, as well as the municipal road network in Bulgaria, is built in time and all roads pass through the settlements. That is why in recent years our country has been built and continues to build round-the-clock routes, and the tour of Provadia is also part of the investment program of the Road Infrastructure Agency. Thirty-six years ago, in 1984, a work project was developed for the bypass of Provadia, divided into four sections, the first two with a total length of 2,5 km was not built. On the third tunnel, 360 m long, and on the fourth one, partial construction activities were carried out, which were discontinued in 1991. In order to restore construction, a new design assignment is needed, since a number of new provisions on the design of large facilities, waste management projects and others have been in force since 1984. This requires a restart of this investment project. In this year API is planning a public procurement for a technical project for the construction of road III-208 from km 0+600 to 5+260 The documentation for this procurement is currently being prepared and, according to the Agency's schedule, the project designer's selection procedure will be launched in September 2020. In the event of a ready technical project for construction of the town of Provadia and a very important element the provision of funds for the provision of construction activities will proceed to the award of a contract for the selection of a contractor for construction, as well as the contractor of the construction supervision. Despite the financial constraints for improving the technical and operational qualities of route III-208 in 2019, repair activities have been carried out for over 230 thousand. BGN, as the Road Infrastructure Agency, supports the road in a state in which it can be used in a good technical operational state. From the beginning of this year the installation of vertical signalling and restraint systems and the installation of horizontal marking has been carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-15.u28	Thank you, dear Minister. Here you are, Mr. Kasabov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-15.u29	Thank you, Madam Secretary. From this I realized that the state after 30 years and more is taking some first steps in solving this problem. But the problem is so mature that I don't know in the next few years when the building of this road has to start, whether the inhabitants will have this necessary patience. My request is that as soon as possible your ministry, of course, along with the other institutions, speed up this procedure. I still couldn't figure out when there would be a final end to this drama of probadians, which means when will it be over this time? From September, if I'm not mistaken, the design starts, maybe a few years from now. This is my request and I thank you once again.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-15.u30	Thank you, dear Mr. Kasabov. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-15.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Kasabov, you are familiar with the entire procedure for building a new route and a new road. Of course, we start by awarding the design, the technical design and the parcel plan, so that after it we can carry out the field insurance procedures and then proceed to the choice of contractor for construction and construction supervision. That, of course, takes time. It will probably take a year and a half for the entire design procedure, development of a plot of land plan, its process, as well as subsequent expropriation of properties and land of insurance, as well as the procedure for the award of the construction itself. Of course, in time we need to find an opportunity and a way for this project to be secured and financially so that we can proceed to its construction. The Road Infrastructure Agency has prioritized road sections to be built in Bulgaria, in particular bypass roads, which are necessary in connection with the construction of the new highways, which are currently under way, as well as the surrounding road of Provadia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-15.u32	Thank you, dear Minister. The second question is from the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov on the need to undertake repairs, reconstruction and rehabilitation of a third-class road..Yugovski fork....Lucky../ІІ-861 (Bachkovo................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Here you go, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-15.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Avramova, once again I ask you the question of the extremely poor condition of a third-class road, which has been detailed, marked in the part of the Yugovian branch to Lucky Jurkovo, Zdravets locality, near Rozhen locality in the municipality of Lucky. From the regular meetings that I have in my electoral district, those living in the city of Lucky, in the municipality of Lucky, the representatives of the business here, it is correct to point out that the mayor of Lucky Municipality has a major concern, who explicitly insists that we ask this question to make sure that those living there, all those who are the visitors and the Sveta Gora, and the municipality Lucky, are on the agenda to improve the condition of extremely critical condition, poor condition, of this road section, and therefore I put this problem again to your attention. On 20 September 2019 during the parliamentary control, you assured me that by the end of September, construction activities must be launched, the most urgent and urgent, to repair, in general, the compromised sections, to prepare the technical project for these road sections for both major repair and partial reconstruction. In this regard, my question to you is: what is the current state at this time? Is there technical readiness taken by you and the Road Infrastructure Agency, the necessary actions and measures, as well as the design and all the necessary activities that concern, including the preparation of environmental procedures, so that this road section is really adapted? Because it poses huge risks for those who travel in this road section in view of the fact that there are also falls, there is also an extremely poor condition that causes drivers of motor vehicles to be extremely careful and in a risky situation. I look forward to your positive answers, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-15.u34	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. For an answer please, Mrs Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-15.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Chakarov, this is the second question in which you are asking me about the road South. "Lucky" Zdravetz, I know, and what is written in the answer prepared by the Road Infrastructure Agency is that the state of this road in its dominant part is really bad. The road is constantly monitored by the Regional Road Management Plovdiv, which organizes and performs activities in current repair and maintenance, repair activities of the asphalt flooring. I will read to you the answer that has been prepared by the Road Infrastructure Agency and which concerns the procedures for securing this section with a project and launching its reconstruction in parts of this time and its rehabilitation by inviting you in a convenient time for you to specify today, next week with the management of the Road Infrastructure Agency, at which we will meet to discuss all the procedures and the way we will proceed in the future to rehabilitate this road. The technical project for major renovation and partial reconstruction of the site: Road III-861 Southovo As part of the project, research and design works have been carried out, which have clarified the reasons for the destabilization process on route III-861 at km 5+485 left, concrete measures are proposed to permanently strengthen the landslide registered under heading 15.86012-03. As I have already informed you in my previous answer to the question, the design contract has been divided into three stages for the development of the technical project and the design of a detailed development plan. The development of the first interim phase was adopted at the Expert Council in the "Travel Infrastructure" Agency and in October 2019 the documentation was adopted at the second interim stage. This stage contains a complete completed technical project for major repair and reconstruction, as well as the development of a pilot copy of a detailed development plan. As part of the environmental and water environmental procedure initiated in the Ministry of Environment and Water, the competent authority.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 6, para. 1 of the Ordinance on the conditions and procedures for carrying out an environmental impact assessment. The Road Infrastructure Agency has undertaken award actions by an authorised person of information under Annex 2 of the Ordinance to be submitted to the RIEW Smolyan with a request to assess the need to carry out the EIA. In addition, the comments received on the PSU project are currently being removed, followed by the final adoption by the Contracting Party, which represents the Third interim stage. With this, it will be able to launch proceedings on its approval by the Ministry in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Device in the Area. A complex report on the assessment of compliance with the essential requirements for construction works, including technical control of the investment project, is next. Upon completion of estrangement procedures, approval of the technical design and the issue of a construction permit will be possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-15.u36	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mr. Chakarov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-15.u37	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Minister, if necessary, I and the next question will ask you about this road section, because it is indeed in an extremely critical condition. This is shared by colleagues from Plovdiv-district and Smolyan region. Even Mrs. Yankova and I were discussing here how important it is for those living there, and in view of tourism, the substation under Rozhen, Zdravets for transport, for the Holy Forest just now I said. In general, it is clear that both dialogue and joint work of the competent departments must be speeded up. Thank you for the idea of a meeting. Hence, from the high tribune of the National Assembly, I express my immediate willingness to the other Members who are interested, I also invite them, but I believe that it is mainly appropriate to invite the mayor of the municipality of Lucky, as well as all the other entities who are competent in this case, to really make a working group and speed up the work so that the most compromised sections can be overcome. In the sense of being restored to a normal operation of road sails, there is no risk to the health and life of the people who travel there, and the Rhodopes are a beautiful mountain, so that there are better conditions for tourism, which would contribute to the better life of all of us. I think it is appropriate to move this issue forward. I was expecting more progress, but it looks like work is coming. Thank you for your willingness to respond. I expect that the meeting you have organised will be notified, that we will attend it and that there will be real progress in the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-15.u38	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. There's not gonna be a duvet. I think it's all clear. The Rhodopes are indeed a very beautiful mountain, I confirm. I thank Minister Avramova for participating in today's parliamentary control. They are now following questions to Minister Desislava Taneva, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests. The question is from the National Representative Stoyan Radkov Bozhinov on the territorial unit of the State. Here you go, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-15.u39	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Madame Minister! In Blagoevgrad district, the Gorskokovo is one of the important sectors of the economy. The same sector is administered and managed by a Southwestern state enterprise Blagoevgrad. Obviously, there are problems that exist in this sector. Many people are signaling me as a MP in that there is no control, there is no afforestation "all this is the responsibility of the Southwestern enterprise. Due to these problems in the Southwestern enterprise, two state forestry holdings are decided to be united. First May forestry is larger as territory and as volume, Petrichko is smaller. You are receiving a proposal from the Director of the South-West Enterprise to be united, with the company....of the State-owned Holding Parvomay............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In this way, the Director of the Southwestern Enterprise is trying to solve the problems of the two enterprises, one of which is that there is no money for salaries and no business at all. For this reason, I have asked you three questions: will you cancel your Order No 63 of 26 February 2020 because of its obvious injustice; do you feel misled by the Director of the Southern State Enterprise Blagoevgrad. I'm waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-15.u40	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojinov. For your answer, Mrs. Taneva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-15.u41	Madam President, Mr. Bozhino! In answer to your first question, no, I will not revoke the order. The order for the infusion of the two state-owned forestry territorial units and the reasons for this are entirely and exclusively economic. In fact, I would say that I would stimulate, I would respect other proposals to inject units that are small in volume and hardly exist financially alone. It should be noted that the pandemic has also affected these holdings. For the southern state-owned enterprise and for the first four months of the plans and business plans we have had, we are 20% behind each of the indicators and reduced realization and reduced implementation of afforestation, it has been postponed for the autumn as well. You know there was a complete quarantine within the scope of this enterprise. In this sense, action is being taken to consolidate the units in order, again, to say, the possibility of self-function. This infusion cannot in any way have an effect on the normal activities and the supply of wood to the population. It is, again I say, only by economic motives for more efficient management of the unit. I can do a brief flashback and historically. In 1913 Petrich was the first to emerge in the distant 1913 period. It really arose as a business... [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-15.u42	Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-15.u43	...a unit for the management of forest territory. Far later, with the Decree of the Council of Ministers of 1968, it was created by other reasons for protecting from erosion of a certain area in the region, such as the agricultural forestry farm and a section of the farm. So I think your concerns are unnecessary. This is common practice, I say again, from a business and management point of view, I would even encourage such proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-15.u44	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mr. Bojinov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-15.u45	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Madame Minister! Of course I'm not happy with your answer. You did not answer me specifically to the question whether you felt misled by the Director of the South-West State Enterprise (St. Damyanov) and what financial results you expect from this unification, given that the previous associations of state forest farms in our region have failed. I may quote to you the "Eleshnitsa State Department" where it has returned to the division of state forestry holdings. There was also a report this morning about a Southwestern state enterprise, which does not speak well of its director, and he had enough scandals. I assure you that this unification will not bring any better financial results to the two forestry farms. You can't make a rich man out of two poor people. Both businesses can't pay their salaries, they can't carry out their plans. What will happen when the same thing happens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-15.u46	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojinov. Madam Minister, for the back? You're not gonna make a douche. We should thank Minister Taneva for participating in today's parliamentary control. Colleagues, that was the last question. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda, I am adjourning today's meeting. The next regular plenary session shall be held on 20 May 2020 at 9.00. [[PHONE RINGING]]
