ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Colleagues, please, when you register, just a little touch of biometrics and we'll have the opportunity to register. Project for the National Assembly's Work Programme for 16 September 2020: 1. Draft decision to complete the composition of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Importer Daniela Daritkova on 10 September 2020 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code. Importer Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs on 17 August 2020. Adopted in the first vote on 3 September 2020. 3. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the BULSTAT Registry Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 28 August 2020. 4. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Physical Education and Sports. Importer "Stefan Apostolov" and a group of MPs on 30 July 2020 [[Noise and lines.]] Quiet, please, colleagues. It's five o'clock. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Ecommerce Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 7 August 2020. 6. Second vote on the Draft Law on Supplement to the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020. Importer "The Council of Ministers," 3 September 2020. Adopted at first vote on 11 September 2020. Point 1 for Thursday, 17 September 2020 7. Second vote on the Draft Law amending the State Social Security Budget Act for 2020. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 3 September 2020. Adopted at first vote on 11 September 2020. Point 2 for Thursday, 17 September 2020 8. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Family Code. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 28 August 2020 Point 3 for Thursday, 17 September 2020 9. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments Importer, 23 July 2020 Point 4 for Thursday, 17 September 2020 10. Report of the Interdepartmental Commission on Export Control and Non-Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction to the Minister of Economy for 2019. Importer Point 5 for Thursday, 17 September 2020 11. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Weapons, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles. Importer Manoil Manev and group of MPs on 3 September 2020 Point 1 for Friday, 18 September 2020 12. Parliamentary control. Please vote on the proposed draft agenda. Vote 173 MPs: 116, against 44, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u2	In the manner of conducting the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u3	Mr. Hamid, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! My procedure is the way I conduct myself. Madam President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there are several other documents missing from this file that we are talking about. With this procedure, I ask you kindly to present them to us. What's this about? In the documentation following the response from the KPONPI there is an anotation answer, without the date and signature of the Commission. Please, the transcript of the meeting of the Commission on this annotation is our first request. Our second request is: please provide us with the transcript of the meeting of the second annotation, which is due to the entry of a second signal on 8 November 2019. No 2 is named without signature and date. We ask for the transcript from the Commission meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u5	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Today you will receive the requested documents from Mr. Karadaye from the 10th. I'm the one who posted a letter to the Commission. Now we will post another letter about what you want, but my request is, you can even write a request to the Commission so that they can provide documents.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u6	Through management.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u7	Okay, we'll write a letter based on the transcript. Colleagues, we're moving on to messages. Bills and draft decisions were adopted "September 9th 2020" by 15 September 2020. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Word Organizations of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals, Dentists and Assistant Pharmacists. Importer Daniela Daritkova. The Committee on Health is the lead. Bill amending the Law on Medical Institutions. Importer Daniela Daritkova. The Committee on Health is the lead. Draft decision to complete the composition of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Importer Daniela Daritkova. A bill on wine and spirits. The Council of Ministers, allocated to the Committee on Agriculture and Food, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on contribution between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank to the Pan-European Guarantee Fund, in response to the COVID-19 and the Guarantee Agreement on a requirement between the original guarantors and the successor guarantors and the European Investment Bank, signed by the Bulgarian side on 9 July 2020 in Sofia and by the European Investment Bank on 24 August 2020 in Luxembourg. The Council of Ministers is the leader of the Committee on Budget and Finance, assigned to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft Law on the ratification of the Statute of the International Network for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and the Statute of the Association of European Organizations for Promotion of Trade. The Council of Ministers, assigned to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, is the leading committee, the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Legal Affairs. Messages: On 11 September 2020, by letter from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, the National Assembly received a Report on the cash implementation of the consolidated fiscal programme for the first half of 2020. By letter from the President of the National Assembly, the material was sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance and was available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. The Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in the implementation of the plans for joint preparation, training and cooperation between the Republic of Bulgaria and the United States of America, Romania and the Hellenic Republic from 14 to 25 September 2020, a joint pilot workout will take place, involving forces and means of the Air Force of the United States of America, Canada, Romania and the Hellenic Republic. In the period from 28 September to 23 October 2020, a joint Bulgarian-Canadian pilot training with Canada's Air Force will be held. In connection with the trainings the Minister of Defence with his order on the grounds of art. 13 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces has authorised, in the above periods, the passage through and the residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied Forces and Means of the US Air Force, Canada, Romania and the Hellenic Republic, combat and transport aircraft with their crews, state armed servicemen, engineering and technical staff with transport, equipment, equipment and no weapons for providing technical assistance and removal of aircraft refusals. Training is not related to military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to carrying out activities to prevent military activities conducted by other (other country or organisation) armed forces. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on Conduct and Participation in Training, the competent state authorities have been notified. The notification was received on 11 September 2020 with entry No 003-09-69 and was submitted to the Defence Committee. In the National Assembly on the basis of art. 133, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act, reports for implementation of the programming budgets were received from: Ministry of Education and Science, Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Foreign Affairs on 30 June 2020. The reports are made available to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the relevant portfolio committees and are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. And the last message: According to the Law on the Fiscal Council and the automatic corrective mechanisms in the National Assembly, an opinion was received by the Fiscal Council on a Report on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, an annual report and a report on the activities of the State Fund to ensure the sustainability of the state pension system for 2019 and an Annual Report on the state debt situation of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was sent to the Budget and Finance Committee and the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Commission and is available to the National Representatives in the Library of the National Assembly. Mr. Tsonev, come in for a procedure and then Mr. Hristov has a statement on behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group, I am making a procedural proposal that item two of the agenda be postponed to Friday as the first item. Our arguments about not being in such a hurry with a second reading of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code, I would like you to hear them, because I believe that at this time, in the current political situation in the country, this is extremely important. We are changing the Election Code in the face of a serious political crisis. We are changing the Election Code in conditions of shaken trust, and not since yesterday, in the electoral process. We are changing the Election Code in conditions where it is not clear how long Parliament will function and whether there will be an opportunity to make the necessary adjustments. We are changing the Election Code without listening to any of the proposals made by the opposition. I believe that at this very moment this is not right and our parliamentary group told you yesterday. Nothing prevents the Election Code from being postponed by a day or two and hearing the arguments, because the change you are making in this version of the Election Code with the possibility of choosing between paper and machine voting does not eliminate any of the problems that arise in the election process itself, which we have talked about many, many times. Within the 2-minute procedure, there is no time to list them. There are options of machine voting such as the machine counting, where there is also a paper bulletin, and to eliminate all those shortcomings in the drafting of protocols, the work of the sectional committees, the invalid ballots and so on. I beg you, by the ruling majority, listen this time to the opposition's voice, because it is in the interests of parliamentaryism, in the interests of Bulgarian democracy, in the interests of strengthening confidence in the electoral process and ultimately in the interests of resolving the political crisis, you will deepen it!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. I put to the vote the procedural proposal to postpone item two of today's agenda. They voted 209 MPs: for 92, against 97, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. There is a declaration on behalf of the party Volya Mr. Hristov. [[Noise and lines.]] Then I'll give the word to the BSP. Mr. Christov, come in. [[The MPs from the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Rhodolyptic people are coming out of the stands with T-shirts with inscriptions on us are Mareshki. Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You also made such a declaration, Mr. Svilensky, if you recall, and the House had no comment on yours. Colleagues have the right to make a statement the way they decide. [[Noise and lines.]] Please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u10	Dear Madam President... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u11	Closer to the microphone. Take off the mask. [[Noise and lines.]] Please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u12	Dear Madam President, dear colleagues, dear compatriots! The declaration of our parliamentary group today may contain only one sentence: "Down with the hands of Veselin Mareshki! " [[Laughter and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u13	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u14	However, I must say a few more words. Two days ago, the whole of Bulgaria witnessed an attempt to denigrate a decent person who has helped millions of Bulgarians throughout his adult life. He helped in the most difficult years when all parties ranked in power and turned the Bulgarian people into the poorest in Europe. He continues to help now by fighting the cartels, despite the heavy hits he takes. An unprecedented attempt was made to use an honorary and honorable Bulgarian entrepreneur and politician for the deception of Brussels that Bulgaria is acting against corruption. It's a pathetic attempt! The backroom has shown its powerlessness and its total reluctance to illuminate and punish the real culprits for the gnawed state. The Volya Parliamentary Group and all our sympathizers are expressing our firm position against such shameful actions against a man who has created thousands of jobs, led the battle against the cartels that all parties have tolerated all these years. We call on Bulgarian citizens, who see and realize the whole scheme of what happened, not to succumb to the manipulations and support Veselin Mareshki as he was and has been with them for 30 years. We will not allow anyone to lie to Brussels by using a decent man as a victim. Those who deliberately misled people that Volya was some kind of crutch of government when they negotiated behind the scenes themselves should now be aware of what was really happening. Because if we keep quiet, tomorrow everyone can be discredited and pressed with similar manipulations. All those who are now gloating, let them realize that with this they are practically supporting the system they are allegedly protesting. I'll tell them one thing: take your time to rejoice! Over the years, many people have rejoiced that through dirty tricks they have managed to slow us down a little. They can't stop us! Sooner or later, however, good wins, so we are here, and no one remembers them anymore. The case of Veselin Mareshki will be a test for our entire society. Who is on whose side, whether he has the courage to defend the truth, or choose the side of the rotten system. Who was frightened by the fact that in just two months more than 160 thousand Bulgarians stood behind Mareshki and Volya in our campaign for free medicines for students and pensioners? Who? Who is afraid of being strong and proving that there may be other types of politicians in Bulgaria who are true patriots? Is such a feud with a young free party like Volya, built up of successful and decent people, the right path to change that everyone is talking about? No, it's not! As Veselin Mareshki has repeatedly said: "WALK is the result of enormous public energy against poverty and cartels. " It is our duty to the Bulgarian citizens to be strong, united and to resist all blows and dirty games because we want in politics and government to have precisely such people like him who give and do not rob, because we know that we are right because we know that we are honest because we know that we are honest people. That's what our power is, and that power you can't break it down. So: "Down with the hands of Veselin Mareshki!."........................ the hands of Veselin Mareshki!..................................................................... Thank you. [[Private applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. On behalf of a parliamentary group, Mr. Vigenin, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u16	Dear Bulgarian citizens, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Parliament is the most representative electoral institution in Bulgaria. In the Republic with parliamentary management, the National Assembly has a central role to play in the adoption of the legislation, in the approval of the Prime Minister and the composition of the Council of Ministers, in the control of their activities, in the selection of a number of senior positions and staff members of bodies and committees. I will not have enough time to list everything a National Assembly is called to do on behalf of citizens and in their interests. Sometimes we don't realize the enormous institutional power that is concentrated in our hands. Huge power, however, also means a huge responsibility. It means there's no room here for small party games, for low-level lobbying, for a systematic marriage, for ignoring the state's interest in the name of someone's private agenda. Unfortunately, in recent years these phenomena have settled permanently in the Bulgarian Parliament. They led to a startling lack of confidence in the institution by Bulgarian citizens. The lack of sense of mission has turned parliament into a damaging addition to the executive power, which is completely contrary not only to parliamentary traditions, but also to the contradiction of the Bulgarian Constitution. In these years of dominated by GERB and their satellites majorities were struck after a blow to the very essence of parliamentaryism in order to get to today's situation in which the Vice-President of the National Assembly receives a second instance sentence of four years for extortion and racketeering. Can we pretend that nothing happened?! We don't think so. We will not reason on the presumption of innocence. The sentence is subject to appeal, and the last instance is the one that will give final judgment. However, this fact itself casts a heavy stain on Parliament's already ruined reputation. I would not stand here on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. For us, it is exhausted as it has exhausted its broadcast government. Every day an extension of existence from now on is no one's unnecessary agony. The sentence of GERB Mareshki's associate is another confirmation of the political coma in which this National Assembly fell. However, this verdict is a stain on the National Assembly institution. It remains both in the minds of the citizens and in the history of the National Assembly. That is why we are putting this issue today and proposing two possible solutions. One is to the parliamentary group of Volya, the other is to the parliamentary group of GERB. We propose that the Volya Parliamentary Group take advantage of the opportunities provided for in the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly to withdraw Veselin Mareshki as Vice-President of the National Assembly and at its discretion or to leave the chair empty, or to broadcast another representative in the Parliament's management. When the last instance has spoken, and if Mr. Mareshki is acquitted, he may take his place again. If this step is not taken by the parliamentary group of "VOLIA" the Bulgarian Rhodolyzkiss, we insist that the President of the National Assembly protect the authority of the parliament and that a request for Mr Mareshki's release be submitted through the parliamentary group of GERB from the position of Deputy President of the National Assembly. We understand how sensitive this issue is, how political deals and accounts may not come out. We understand that the unfortunate project for a new Constitution became possible precisely thanks to the signatures of the MPs from the Bulgarian Rhodophilists and Mr Mareshki. Without the Bulgarian Rhodolists, there would be no meeting of the National Assembly today. However, I would like to recall a text which almost the entire parliamentary group of the Political Party GERB has signed, and I quote: 155, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, has institutional obligations towards the parliamentary institution to establish the institutional and political authority of the National Assembly as a legislative body. You probably know where the text came from by now. In this Parliament you have allowed yourself to take away the representative function, as you express yourself, of the Vice-President of the National Assembly Valeri Zablyanov because of opinions expressed by him, which in itself was a political repression without an analogue in the latest history of Bulgaria. If a voiced opinion you do not like is an excuse to remove Vice-President of the National Assembly, an effective sentence of four years for racketeering and extortion is compatible with this post?! We expect immediate action from the two parliamentary groups. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u17	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. We continue with the first item of today's agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u18	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u19	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u20	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear MPs from the party This was also noted by Mr. Tsonev at the beginning of the meeting. [[GERB's line.]] The way you're holding it, yeah, that's right. We have heard two statements regarding the specific case with Vice-President Mareshki. These declarations with the relevant requests would not have been a fact if the President of the National Assembly Ms. Karayancheva had taken on her role as representative of the Bulgarian Parliament, had come out here today, explained the case with Mr. Mareshki, had taken responsibility on behalf of the ruling parliamentary group and the majority and had proposed a solution. There is no need to hide, Ms. Karayancheva, behind the parliamentary declarations of the parliamentary groups! It is high time for you to take responsibility for the authority of this National Assembly. There is no way to observe the contradictions created and due to you, the enhanced political environment in parliament and the sharp political situation outside the parliament building. If you want and claim to be a ruling party, at these moments take responsibility. That's why you're chosen! That's my basic procedure. It is not for the parliamentary groups among themselves to decide on the authority of the institution entrusted to you to represent. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u21	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Mrs. Takova in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u22	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Today's declaration by the party "VOLIA" "Bulgarian Rhodolyptics" clearly aroused the interest of everyone, mainly of BSP colleagues. But we didn't just do it in defence of our leader, but as honest and honorable MPs who would declare themselves against any injustice in our country. Specifically for Mr. Mareshki. Indeed, he allowed himself over the years to jump on everything that prevented Bulgarian citizens. You fought a battle with...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u23	To me, Mrs. Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u24	To you, Madam President. You should make a remark when in the Chamber.. not only against the Vice-President of the National Assembly, but also against a businessman who has paid so many taxes to this country, BSP colleagues allow themselves to speak in this way. What I wanted to finish is that really a lot of questions came out in society. Where does this attack come from? So quickly the masks fell that BSP actually admitted that for years there were some puppeteers of the cartel in the National Assembly and immediately jumped at the only person who fought against it. [[Applause from the Bulgarian Rhodolists.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u25	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. We continue with the first item of today's agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO COMPLETION THE COMMISSION'S CONVERSATION AND RIGHTS OF HUMANS. Importer is Daniela Daritkova on 10 September 2020: Project! DECISION to complete the composition of the Commission on Religions and Human rights The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Lilyana Drumeva Radeva as a member of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u26	Speech!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u27	A statement?! Unexpectedly for this procedure, but, of course, everyone has the right to express their opinion. Here you are, Mr. Ibryamov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u28	Madam President, honourable Members! Madam President, a moment ago, my colleague Jablyanov pointed out that there are still MPs in this House and that you should, as President of the National Assembly, be the first among equals, pay attention to the agenda and procedures on this agenda! According to point one, honourable Members, filling in the composition of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, I will say the following: this committee is not working, this committee has not taken place. Mending, accepting, supplementing a member of this committee is an empty transfusion. What demands this change, Mrs. Daritkova? Lately, we've been hearing calls for dialogue, even from the Prime Minister. Did these calls come from Mrs Daritkova, who offers the changes? Because it is in this committee, honourable Members, that there is a need for a dialogue initiated precisely by the President of the Commission. However, the election of the President of the Commission is completely incorrect in the face of Mr. Velchev, because he himself is as far from human rights as Mrs. Daritkova is far from football. [[Noise and lines.]] This committee has not taken place because in those three and a half years it has not produced any product, has no significant contribution to its own activity. Two members of this committee have resigned. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u29	Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u30	In reality, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms does not have any representatives in this committee. The President of the Commission allowed himself, to put it mildly, insulting qualifications at the address of Bulgarian citizens who have experienced the ugly revival process, and every shift outside the shift of the chairman of this committee is untenable, even the additions. We can begin, Mrs Daritkova, with this change of the President of the Commission, and the DPS will vote with clear awareness that there are at least small beginnings of dialogue in the Commission at least. What are we doing, Mrs. Daritkova?! Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u31	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Personal explanation please, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u32	Madam President, honourable Members! This is an evaluation for the Commission on Religions and Human Rights by people who have not participated for three years and who do not participate at all in the meetings of this committee. [[Private applause from GERB.]] Because from this tribune, I told them the truth in their eyes. It's all in the transcripts. These people have been suing me for three years. Four cases went by that lost you. Now the last thing to do before the Supreme Administrative Court is to wait for the court's ruling, because we are clearly crossing some limits here. Since this morning, we've been trying to instill the justice system... You know the separation of authorities is also enshrined in the Constitution. We can't discuss things here that are the work of the other power. Let's just mind our own business and solve our own questions. But this party that violates the Constitution... I will tell you from here, because you cannot be judged by the people's representative for the words he says from this tribune, if such a tradition is introduced and happens to be condemned by a people's representative for what he says from the stands, then we will trample not only the Constitution, but democracy in this country as well. So let everyone mind their own business. It is their will whether they will have MPs in this committee or not. They achieved their goal while there was another chair of the parliamentary group. With him all sorts of things they brought into this committee without knowing either the Commission or the President for their demands and wishes. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u33	Thank you, Mr. Velchev. Come in for a speech, Mrs. Daritkova. Then I'll give the floor to Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Obviously, emotions are getting serious inside the National Assembly, but I think we should maintain constructive dialogue because the procedure is absolutely regulated under the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. It is normal for us to fill our quota in the relevant committee. And since the procedure suggested a second oath by Mrs. Lilyana Drumeva, we are now returning her to the Commission, where she has been carrying out her work as a member for one year now. If there is anyone else who is more appropriate than Mrs Drumeva, who is a representative of the repressed, precisely for the Committee on Religions and Human Rights of our parliamentary group, please challenge it. [[DPS lines.]] But in this case, it is precisely the choice and validation of Mrs. Lilyana Drumeva as Commissioner. Any other speculation and use of the topic of suggestion and of comments that are not directly relevant to the procedure, rather to me is a violation of the Rules and a sign of a poor taste, which I definitely did not expect from the Group of.. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms.......................... which has always been extremely principled, well prepared and have defended respect for parliamentary discipline, rules and laws of the country. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u35	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Hamid, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Daritkova, I fully agree with you on Mrs. Drumeva's qualities. She really is the most worthy. In the form of a reply, and I expect you to answer me later, I propose a change to the draft decision: instead of the Member of the Commission, we will sign the President of the Commission. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u37	Mr. Ibryamov, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u38	Madam President, honourable Members! Mrs. Daritkova, I have not commented on this article, which we will confirm Mrs. Drumeva. And since you said that she was the most worthy person repressed, I ask myself the question: if she is repressed, and since the words of the current chairman of this committee are: Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. A hole? There won't be. Come on in. [[Reply from MP Slavcho Atanasov.]] Wasn't that your speech?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u40	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u41	It was the way it was supposed to be. I gave the floor. I'll give you the way you run it. I understand you want a statement, Mr. Atanasov. With the mask, I can't understand what you're saying to me sometimes because it's...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Just moments ago, the chairman of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights showed you how he set the tone for the construction of democratic Bulgaria in every country, including Bulgaria, chaired by Mr. Velchev. In 2017, during a discussion in the parliamentary procedure of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons, we heard from the President of the Commission that individuals who participated in peaceful protests during the totalitarian communist regime were self-injured. The person who needs to set the agenda of this committee in order to respect the fundamental rights and freedoms of Bulgarian citizens in order to be a true democracy has set these people in a direction in which they had no idea at all to think that they were involved in this process. This moral act and expression of humanity, with the introduction of the Bill by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, was vitiated by the attempt to accuse these people of self-harm. This is no way to build democracy, honourable Members. This is how we get the response to the current events in the country. We warned even then that working like this would get us to a dead end, and the effects are there. The effects will also be seen in the next item on the agenda when we violate democracy when we attempt to suffocate it. Don't go on like this! Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u43	Thank you, Mr. Sadakov. Colleagues, I'm going to ask you, when you expose your thoughts, however, keep up with me, maybe I'm too old-fashioned, but I'm trying to find an introduction, a statement and a conclusion from each of you. [[Noise and lines.]] You understand what I'm trying to say, don't you?! Are there any lines to Mr. Sadakov? I won't. The way you're holding it, here you go. [[Change of Presidents.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u44	Dear Madam President, Members of the National Assembly! I address you, Madam President, with my great respect for your personality. In this room, colleagues, after all, we're colleagues, we've been together for four years. It is not right, Madam President, to allow this highest tribune of the state to give an assessment of the qualities of other colleagues. This assessment is given by the Bulgarian people because we are all directly elected by the people here. There is a biblical expression before you see the fever in your friend's eye, see the beam in your eye. So I strongly disagree with each other here from this high tribune to give assessments of our qualities and abilities. Let's still be mutual gentlemen, although we have serious political differences quite often. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u45	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. The way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u46	Honourable Members, Madam President and the President before you! My procedure in the manner of conduct is the systematic violation of the Rules, and some colleagues claim that, if you see, someone else has violated the Constitution here. The Constitution is systematically violated, thus holding the meeting and adopting legislation contrary to the Constitution. And when systematic, although there were claims here to be supervised, who should not be supervised and the freedom of speech of the MP, we witness how the chairman oversees the opposition's MPs by telling them what and how to say. No, you have no right! They can express their opinion freely, they can express, including from the other procedure, which was in the way of conduct, concerns not about the qualities of the person, but about the positions that are expressed. And just like the chairman of this committee! Isn't she the Committee on Human Rights and Religion?! Yes! But right there we see that there is a systematic violation of rights, and they came out to tell us that this will continue to be done this way. No, it's an evaluation of behavior. This is an assessment, Mr. Velchev, of a denied model, and by decision of the National Assembly. And you must comply with the decisions of the National Assembly which condemn these repressive regimes. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. I never allowed myself to take the floor of the majority or the opposition. I've always been extremely tolerant of everyone. Let's move on to the vote. [[Noise.]] In the manner of holding Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u48	Thank you, Madam President. In the manner of conduct, but it is related to the remarks made to the leader before you, i.e. to me, even though I was not mentioned by name. I have always sought, colleagues, when I hold the meeting, to be tolerant of everyone. In this case, I have tried to say something that I have long observed, and I wish that all of you, when you speak, should observe what is written in the Rules, because otherwise, the leader is obliged to comply with the Rules. What exactly do I mean, Madam President, because it also affects you, affects all the other leaders? When the people's representative deviates from the subject, according to the Rules of Procedure, whoever he is, he is obliged to remind him and take his word away. In many cases the MPs use an introduction in their speech, which I, too, am convinced and all the leaders, accept as something quite normal, naturally, which leads to the exhibition of what they want to tell us. Unfortunately, very often we do not see the expression of their thoughts, that is, the argumentation, and we do not see the conclusion. So I took the liberty, although in a very very mild way, and I think I have expressed the opinion of many of you here to make this note. She had nothing to do with what Mr. Sadakov was trying to say. It was just one request: do not violate the Rules so that we leaders do not have to enter into the Rules of Procedure which oblige us to react. That's what I meant, Madam President. I hope by my speech here that when a Member of the National Assembly wants to express his opinion, let him be logically consistent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u49	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Any other speeches? I can't see. We are going to vote on the draft decision to complete the composition of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Vote 152 MPs: for 107, against 41, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Moving on to point two: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE SELECTED CODEX. Mrs. Alexandrova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! On 17 August 2020, submitted by Daniela Atanasova Daritkova-Prodanova and a group of MPs on the first vote on 3 September 2020, the Council adopted a draft amending and supplementing Act No 054-01-85 submitted by Daniela Atanasova Daritkova-Prodanova and a group of MPs on 17 August 2020. The second voting project. "Renewal and Supplemental to the Election Code." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u51	Statements? I can't see. [[Noise and lines.]] Ah, Mrs. Ninova, I'm sorry. Excuse me! I'm gonna take my glasses off 'cause I'm seeing them close by. [[Reply from MP Desislav Chukolov.]] Mr. Chukolov, of course, I'll give you the floor as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u52	Dear Bulgarian citizens, today the Bulgarian Parliament will solve two important issues. The first is for the honesty and transparency of parliamentary elections through machine voting, and the second is for a change in the Constitution by convening a Grand National Assembly. Both proposals of the ruling majority represent an attack against democracy and freedom in Bulgaria and are a blow to the foundations of statehood. Dear Governments, today you confirm one of the most vicious practices of the Bulgarian political process, with long-lasting consequences for public relations in Bulgaria. You are changing the electoral rules months before the elections are held. This is something you have permanently established in Bulgarian politics, contrary to the requirements of the Venice Commission and European rules. However, this results in the following consequences: it repels voters and leads to low turnout. This makes representative power in parliament less and less representative and one that enjoys less confidence and authority in Bulgarian society. Secondly, today you are doing this in an extremely different political, parliamentary, economic and social environment, doing so in the conditions of protesting on the street are hundreds of thousands of people. [[Strong noise, shouts and lines from GERB and OP.]] What do they want? They want the government's resignation and transparent elections new and early. What are you giving them today's offers? You tell them that the government remains and through the changes in the Code we guarantee forgery of the elections to return the same model again. This contradiction between the rulers and the people's desire is extremely important, which will lead to you pouring more oil into the fires of discontent and protest. Extremely short-sighted political thinking. Thirdly, the engine vote was adopted in 2014. We are now 2020. Six years you had to make the possible, transparent and fair election process. What have we seen for six years? Counterfeited protocols, carrying sacks of MPs, invalid ballots for various reasons, all tools for falsifying the popular vote. Six years has not been enough for you to establish the way in which the machines will be certified, bought or hired, who will be responsible for their ownership and logistics in the electoral process. What does that say? That six years you just don't want to do it, because if there was a will for fair elections, they would have been a fact a long time ago. Last but not least, you must know that yesterday the deadline for submitting proposals for President of the Central Election Commission expired. There's no such thing. Even you, the government, didn't bring in because you didn't want to take that responsibility. How will the electoral administration work if you haven't even tabled proposals for President of the Central Election Commission? On the second issue, the Grand National Assembly is called for a change in the Constitution. As you know, this proposal in today's Election Code has been rejected and has not been accepted. There are many reasons for this. Perhaps you already know that your project will not pass. 160 signatures for convening the Grand National Assembly will not be available. Do not waste the time of parliament and of the people with this project, which is the brightest offense on the democratic, rule of law and the social state. That is why today I address all MPs, but also Bulgarian citizens, to know what is happening. I call on you to accept our proposals for a single and only machine vote as a guarantee of the honesty of the elections and do not back down by introducing paper ballots.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u53	Time, Mrs. Ninova!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u54	Secondly, withdraw immediately the Project, which concerns the introduction of a Constitution and the convening of a Grand National Assembly. This was the rescue belt for Boyko Borisov and for you. Withdraw this rescue belt and introduce a rescue belt for the Bulgarian people. This is a national plan for removing Bulgaria from the crisis. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. - What's the line? You have the floor, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u56	Dear Mrs. Ninova, Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! When I was listening to your speech, Mrs. Nino, I remembered an old saying that in the time that lies can travel halfway around the world, the truth can stand still. Finally, however, everyone understands what is a lie and what is true. For years the balloon has been inflated for the magical solution of election honesty by machine voting. Naturally, all those who inflate this bubble miss the European experience, the decisions of the Constitutional Court in Germany, in other European countries where this method is used, the fact that they do not guarantee the integrity of the vote does not guarantee the credibility of the final results. Apparently BSP, protesters, everyone else has taken this problem as a magical solution to the vote from the machine that will save the Bulgarian electoral process. You don't see what's happening in the ghettos that are being bought, you don't support our proposals for an educational census, at least people can read their ballots before they vote, and you keep blowing up this empty bubble. This empty balloon is going to burst someday, whether in these or in other elections. However, when it bursts, the vote will be challenged as a whole. I'm sorry, but we don't want to be responsible for challenging the vote as a whole. The second part of your speech was dedicated to some of our proposals to convene a Grand National Assembly. I'm sorry you didn't understand these suggestions. They are for the people to have the right to rule on matters of the competence of the National Assembly. If you are against the people's pronouncement, against the referendums, state it clearly from this tribune. [[Private applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u57	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Second line, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mrs. Ninova, I am surprised by your pathos on this topic, six months before the elections were announced that they were falsified before they took place. I'm surprised, not because you say it, and you've done it before, but because until a few days ago, you were accused of falsifying the elections in your own party. You should know... [[(Comments from GERB:]] I do not claim that they have been falsified and congratulate you with the organization. Another point is that I expected you to propose the election lists for the upcoming elections to be written on election day... Why would we be any different from BSP? We must not destroy trust in elections, not only by legislation. I agree, there must be gaps in the legislation as well. However, when we come out of this tribune, we announce that they will be necessarily falsified, we suggest two things: that there is no point in voting in the first place, and, secondly, that you will lose the elections. What if you win them, then will they be faked? We listened and during the local elections what huge forgeries there are throughout the country, only in Ruse and Pernik there is none. Why is that? There's no forgery in these cities. Everything's fair, the election process is going, everything else is bad. Presidential elections are the only honest elections since 2016 in all of our democratic history, let's say from this tribune. In thirty years a fair election and GERB made them again. Good thing it was us! I urge you to calm down. Let us try to reach consensus together, to safeguard as much trust as we can in the electoral process, because from there comes confidence in all the other institutions. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u59	Another line? I won't. Mrs. Ninova, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u60	In terms of the first line and experience in Europe. Dear colleagues, there is no way to seek experience there after, when you tell some European that ballots are tampered with, supplement lists and MPs carry sacks on election day, he looks at you as an alien. He can never imagine that such a thing can happen in the electoral process. There is no question of the integrity of the vote during a machine vote because the people there are holding fair elections. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] Dear colleague, I don't know if I or you didn't understand what you're voting on today. Two thirds of the Law concerns not the referendum, but the manner of convening the Grand National Assembly, the majority choice of two hundred people from it and so on. However, that is not important..... who has read the Law from us. It is important that you answer one question: have you, Patriot, signed the Constitution in which the free, democratic and rule of law is removed? Did you sign a Constitution in which peace, dignity and justice are removed? [[Strong noise, banging on banks from GERB and OP. Partial applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Did you sign it?! You have to answer that, not how I read the Law. [[Instant noise, lines and banging on the banks from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u61	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u62	As far as the other one is concerned, the BSP elections. Dear colleagues, I wish each of you to experience this.. to appear majority as a person, to be able to activate 67% of those who have the right to vote. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] When did you activate them in any election? Presidential, parliamentary and local? I wish you to experience this.. to activate 67% of those who have the right to vote and to trust you 82% of them. I wish you could experience it! And if you're brave people, report to this test. Otherwise, as regards the attitude of the elections in BSP against the national ones. Dear Bulgarians, the salvation from the forgery they are cooking is only the high turnout, that is, we expect you to vote and the guarantees that we, as the only opposition to the Mafia's model of governance, will give you for these elections. [[(Sighs:) Whoo! Knocking on the banks from GERB.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u63	You're welcome, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u64	Dear Mr. Chairman, I don't know if you hear the lines that are being thrown at the various speakers in this House? [[Replying and shouting from GERB.]] I do not know if you saw how the House reacted when the President of the main opposition force in parliament spoke.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u65	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u66	I don't know if you're familiar with the fact that participants and experts from civil society were not admitted to the Legal Committee yesterday, and those who were admitted were interrupted and treated in exactly the same way as they are now? [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] In general, I would like to ask you: is there any sense in your view of a parliamentary debate in which some people express arguments and others behave in an absolutely unacceptable way? How do you imagine election rules are being built in such an environment? I would like to draw attention to you and, through you, to the President of the National Assembly, that in recent weeks, there has been a dangerous trend that has begun from putting journalists in the basement that went through the fact that yesterday you did not allow civil society and experts in the Commission, and ending up with the grunts that we hear here so that we cannot talk. [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]] Therefore, we need to know whether there is still a parliament in this country, because Parliament is not just a new room? Parliament is a way of communication and which does not have it, I ask you to leave it. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) Replies from GERB.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u67	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. I didn't interrupt, but please... [[Noise, exchange of lines between MPs from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Personal explanation please, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u68	It's a personal explanation. Dear colleague, when this hall was built and ideally designed, Mr. Pirinski was President of the National Assembly. The movement of the flows of MPs, journalists and administration is clearly marked and signed by it. Stop looking for reasons to have political PR and pretend to be nice to journalists. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] The colleagues of the journalists have the opportunity to be in the conference room, there is a place where press conferences are given, there is an opportunity through the PR of the parliamentary groups to receive information and to seek interviews with colleagues. Colleagues, MPs, I call you, please, when journalists from all media call, pick up the phones and give interviews, make meetings. There is an opportunity for such meetings to be held in both the press center and the conference room. Please do not abuse on this occasion. Regarding the admission of the check-in regime in parliament. There's a warrant based on the Minister of Health's orders. You all know very well, and I ask you not to speculate on how admission is made in committees. The President of the Commission under my order, which I have issued for the relevant crossing regime, allows or does not allow, makes an assessment of the number of people who should be in the Commission, because you know that there are anti-epidemic measures to be followed. So, please, do not abuse from the stands to make yourself an elementary PR. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Karayancheva. I would... [[Noise and lines.]] Wait. Okay. I looked. Mr. Chukolov, you're going to have to wait a long time, because there are a lot of people who want to be led. [[Noise and lines.]] Ms. Karayancheva, I would like to add in your speech, unfortunately, I cannot, because I am part of the process... [[Reply from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva. Noise and lines.]] Come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u70	Dear Mr. Chairman, do you need time to appease your colleagues, or can I start with the procedure? [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Chairman, my procedure is directed at you. What really personal explanation did we just hear? What was that procedure? When the President of the National Assembly personally violates the Rules of Procedure, this is now a serious symptom. As you communicate with the MPs in this Chamber, so you communicate with the protesters, so you communicate with the Bulgarian citizens. You're the main reason why there's tension outside today, but there's tension inside this room. And you're proving a debate with you is impossible! The debate is unnecessary and the only way out of the situation is to resign immediately and now. [[Noise and lines.]] What procedure did Mrs. Karayancheva actually take? What personal explanation, who touched her personally in her speech, and how did it affect her?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u71	Bring you back, Mr. Bojankov!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u72	We found out Oresharski was guilty, we found out Pirinski was guilty and so was Khan Kubrat. Who are you really to blame for the last 10 years of government? Who's really to blame? Ten years you haven't had time to change those rules, Mrs. Karayancheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u73	Mr. Bojankov, please tell us if there's anything you want to tell us. Thank you. Mr. Mihov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u74	Dear Mr. Chairman, I take the floor to express my disagreement in the manner of conduct. When from this tribune leaders of a political party, leaders of the opposition, the largest group use arguments that do not correspond to the truth, there can be no reaction from the House. Someone cannot claim that some extraordinary regime has been imposed in parliament when in their own party headquarters, if it is true.. disprove me, there is a ban on the admission of certain NGOs. That's what they say. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] But if that's not true, I'm going to apologize to you in public. Two colleagues took the liberty of using two definitions in this room. It is a definition of verbal communication of an animal species, not of MPs. [[Noise and lines.]] Secondly, a colleague took the liberty of advising us to end the quote. Biological species of lower discharge are also preserved. Mr. Chairman, for these two insults that I personally accept to me, I want you to impose punishments on these colleagues. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u75	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. You know, unfortunately, you're right. [[Noise and lines: "Chukolov, Chukolov! "]] Guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, We're looking at an important law. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Chukolov... However, I would like to remind you that we are considering the name of the Law and everything that has been said so far has nothing to do with the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u76	Dear colleagues, once again I am amazed how such a serious topic, such as today's Election Code, can be twisted in an outrageous way by fighting BSP and GERB. Do you realize that this is the Law that determines how Bulgarian citizens vote? Once every four years, they have the right to decide who will rule our country. Today we decide how to do so that their voice is accounted for, not lost, not declared invalid, reported, calculated in general and finally broadcasted management, of which everyone will be satisfied. Today began this meeting, this point, with the topics: how the elections were made in BSP, what were they from GERB, what were they back from BSP and the scandal happened. The summary of the day, the voter who watches and hopes to be able to honor his voice, says to himself, "These guys are fighting over something again, they've made a scandal again. It wasn't a good fight either. If you ask, I'll tell you how to make a good fight, it'll work, no problem for that. But the goal is not today to make a scandal. Mr. Chairman, you said the topic is The name of this Election Code should not be what it is at the moment, but the call for a fundamental amendment and supplement. Mostly! Because here in this Chamber, the MPs and journalists, you actually know perfectly well that the elections in Bulgaria are being manipulated. I don't think there's anyone who's getting the illusion that everything's fair, that everything's fine. Is there a vote buyer? There's a vote buy. Is there any manipulation of protocols? Of course there's protocol manipulation. One blames those who have won, in the next election is the opposite, but manipulations there are. We have to make sure there isn't, of course. And here the acquittals of the kind of party have a representative in the sectary electoral commission. I cannot accept them. Yes, every parliamentary party represented has a representative in the sectary election committee, but not every parliamentary party represented has the huge cash resource that accumulates during the government and is then used for elections. We don't have these illusions, do we? If there is an opportunity in a polling section to manipulate the elections, believe me, this means that in all polling stations there is an opportunity. Two thousand eleventh year, if you remember, then in the presidential election there were a huge number of invalid voices. Unfulfilled! In the second round of the 2011 presidential elections, there were over a hundred thousand invalid votes. What does that mean? We must accept as a society, as parliamentarians, that there are 100 thousand people in Bulgaria who go to vote and from two squares cannot doodle the right box or scratch both? In fact, you have to choose one of two squares, so it looks like a hundred thousand people didn't choose one of the two squares, and these are null and void ballots. Of course, this is not the case, of course, that there was a huge number, which then provoked us, the MPs from "Attacka" to propose the engine vote. In 2012, it was discussed how to hold the next elections, how to change the electoral code. Then we first proposed that there be a machine vote, because the real machine vote ensures, first of all, that there will be no invalid votes, that there will be no such manipulations. Yeah, anything can be manipulated. Our goal here, however, is to make sure that this is reduced to the greatest possible minimum, and machine voting allows for this machine voting, where the vote reading is done in real time, if you will. In real time, it is not who voted for whom but how many people voted and how the vote is going. In Bulgaria, isn't every cash register connected to the NRA? There's this connectivity, you can account for this thing to the Central Election Commission on encrypted channels and so on. That's no problem at all. You say, these machine voting machines, they can be damaged. How can they be damaged? It's like breaking an ATM on the street. If there are three people standing next to you from the Election Commission, how are you going to damage this apparatus? Every Bulgarian pensioner has the opportunity and a large part of the Bulgarian pensioners receive their pensions at the ATM. They know how to handle such a type of technique, which is in no way complicated. These arguments about machine voting, the people who export them in this hellish form, to me, mean that these people don't want to have machine voting, they want things to go on the same way. In fact, this change in the Election Code today, yes, it was conditioned by the fact that there will be a Grand National Assembly, let there be a Grand National Assembly and let us change something about the Election Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u77	Thank you. The speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u78	We are all aware that the Grand National Assembly will not be held. Sorry, I'm just finishing up, last sentence. My request to you, who are ruling by GERB, is that we should postpone this point to Friday, to another day. Meanwhile, collect signatures of those who have imported it and simply withdraw this point. If we're gonna do something, let's do it right, it's not cancer or pike.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u79	Thank you. Finish it really.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u80	Yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u81	I listened to your introduction carefully. Are there any lines? I don't see any lines. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Hamid. By the name of the Law, Mr. Hamid. By the name of the Law, I will listen to the introduction with caution.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! You are very strict today and I would like to commend you to the MPs for that.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u83	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u84	Unlike past weeks, you are closely following the Rules of Procedure today. Mr. Chukolov brought us back to the debate on the title. And how did this debate really start, fellow Members? Ms. Karayancheva said she would take off her glasses and I wouldn't be Hamid if I didn't complete it. Ms. Karayancheva should take off her pink glasses, not her glasses, because, colleagues... Mr. Chairman, take off your pink glasses, too. It is very pink this We're barely doing anything with him. And here I will join in the words of Mr. Bikoff. Let's tame the ball a little bit, reduce the tone and look for dialogue. But how do you look for dialogue, colleagues? When we propose this dialogue to sit down together to write something working, instead you are talking about dialogue, and with your vote on procedures to postpone, in order to have dialogue, you are acting, as one other politician said these days: The time for dialogue has long ended. In fact, both sides speak the same way: there is no time for dialogue. This means that at the moment on the title you have the last chance for dialogue. Please postpone this Code because it will not work, it will create prerequisites for attempts at electoral fraud, forgeries, and chaos is inevitable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u85	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. - What's the line? I won't. Statements? Mr. Zarkov by the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u86	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I don't see Mr. Mihov. I would apologize to him if I didn't mean to, but the noise was really unimaginable. Now the name of the Law. This law should not, and should not, be said, the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code. For the simple reason that the Election Code had no reason to be amended! It should have only been supplemented, and in several clear parameters, which we have expressed several times in different formats in recent months. It had to be the clear commitment of the Council of Ministers to the acquisition of new machines. It had to be written that these machines were necessarily bought and not rented for obvious reasons; it had to be clearly stated who certified and who kept the relevant material asset, namely the machines. This was supposed to be in this law, which should have been called the Supplement to the Election Code, to be brief, to be clear and to be adopted, I suppose, with a large majority for the simple reason that all these decisions have been spoken and written in various reports, including the Central Election Commission, over the years. I will not tire of repeating that we are not going anywhere, honourable Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, because in recent years there have been experiments to conduct the engine vote and certain findings have been drawn from these experiments. These findings could be realised in the Law. The only thing that had to happen was the sincere desire to vote machine! We should have solved this issue in Bulgaria in the big sections will be voted machine, and so it was written in the Law. Instead of these several clear parameters, the Council of Ministers is totally taken out of the process of acquiring the machines, the question of whether to hire them or purchase them is not resolved clearly with the institutions involved in their verification and certification, as the institutions which are mentioned in this law, in the Legal Committee, have clearly explained.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Hearsay zero! No expert, no organization that understands this process, has said a good word about the proposals made! However, the vote is being voted on somehow stubborn! I'm not sure that you're doing it on purpose, too. It just comes as stubborn. It has to go because someone said it had to go. Therefore, this Law amending the Election Code will become a law allowing perversion with the electoral process. You should be aware of that when you vote on the name. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u87	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Are there any lines? Statements? Mr. Popov according to the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! These are contradictory, creating risks and chaos, seriously affecting the democratic and transparent electoral process, proposals. And it's not just my opinion, it's the opinion of all experts, institutions and the non-governmental sector. [[Radio, GERB lines.]] The name of the Law should be the Law Act for the replacement of the vote, because that is your goal. That's why you made the deceiving maneuver with the Grand National Assembly so that you could pass the cancellation into practice of the engine vote......................... the old song of a new voice. Six years ago, you accepted the engine vote. In 2019 it was adopted again and introduced into the current Election Code. Now that the trust in you is exhausted, I would call it again with scheming, you have pursued your dream, namely power. For you, power and people are two parallel lines that intersect only in elections. With these suggestions, you prove it. You look at people as goods and therefore write rules that allow you to run into elections as so far as ambulant traders with sacks on their backs. Download these proposals. Let the engine vote remain as it is written only in the Election Code without the possibility of replacing the vote, without paper ballots, without the possibility of your previous vicious practices! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u89	Thank you, Mr. Popov. - What's the line? Mr. Angelov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u90	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are talking about the title and it is really nice to discuss all problems related to the electoral process in Bulgaria in the last 30 years. The title is important not only as a title, but because it allows for changes, concrete proposals that have made different political forces. The aim of all of us is to reduce the vicious practices of voting. It is precisely during the discussion of the title that it is time to say what is really happening in the electoral process in Bulgaria: are the forgeries and manipulations being carried out in the sections or outside them? Why does the opposition, which is so well aware of and knows about the vicious practices, the carrying of bags, the counterfeiting of protocols and so on, not talk about where the manipulation is actually carried out and where the vote is replaced?! This is happening outside the polls! What did you from the BSP or from the DPS suggest about not buying votes outside the election sections, not pushing people how to vote, not being led under a convoy, because the real replacement of the vote is outside the sections and you all know it?! What will the machines change? Nothing! Why didn't you support our proposal to remove the figures in the ballot? Because some voters go to vote by telling them, for example, in front of the section, not in front of the section: one, or others call them "bir"! So they vote by neighborhood, in small towns, they vote for a figure, not a party, not a candidate! When we want to improve the electoral process, to make it more democratic, to participate more people, the literate people in Bulgaria to take more part in the elections, we must give these people an opportunity! A part of the Bulgarian voters do not go out to vote because they know that there will be manipulations, there will be buying votes, and that disappoints them. We do not do anything about this matter. I am talking to you as a whole, as a National Assembly, as politicians and as political parties! Yes, we at IMRO have suggested some partial things that might contribute to the election process being democratic. But what did you propose, specifically?! Because we saw your experience, ladies and gentlemen of the BSP a few days ago. Kim Jong-un would see you as an organization at voting rates! Where were your tablets in the polls? [[Radio.]] Why did you not allow, for example, a direct election of the President of the BSP to be voted on the Internet? [[Noise and lines.]] If you didn't have a financial opportunity, eventually the subsidy was refunded . you had the opportunity, you could have purchased tablets for any section..... and mobile, and permanent! To put one tablet to each of your members to vote so that there is no replacement! Why were there paper ballots? [[Radio, lines.]] And you're teaching us democracy! When you want to teach someone about democracy, give an example to yourself first, because we do not say that your election of President is faked, replaced, but your members and MPs! We don't say that from VMRO, NFSB, "Attack" or "GERB"! You claim that your members and MPs! And your chairman comes out as a moral champion and a fighter for fair elections! Well, I'm sorry, 82 percent, and Todor Zhivkov would be jealous, for God's sake! And you're talking about democracy, honest elections and machines! What was your high technology in your election process?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u91	You're disgusting!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u92	Give an example! Wearing a bag of old people or... [[GERB lines.]] There's what's... You called me disgusting. You took action because first you have to look at yourself and then talk about others.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u93	Don't cross the tolerance limit so often, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u94	The most interesting thing was that at your choice in some municipalities or in some settlements of your members there were more votes for the leader of the party than in the local elections for municipal councilors, which is also strange! So, when you talk about morality, when you give your mind to democracy, look at you for 45 years first what your party did, then the first years of democracy! Who introduced wicked practices? Because then all the sectional committees were controlled by the BCP and BSP really replaced protocols and votes, and voted each cast the ballot inside...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u95	Your time is up, Mr. Angelov. Please finish.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u96	Thank you. So when you talk about the vicious practices that you introduced, you can give the best way of deciding, but you don't! [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u97	They'll give you a medal!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u98	Thank you. Are there lines? The line, Mr. Zarkov. [[The Presidents shall change the sitting.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u99	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Angelov, regarding the internal election for the President of BSP I will explain it to you when you commit to choosing your next leader in a direct way. Before that, it doesn't make any sense to talk to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u100	We don't want you to explain it to us!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u101	With regard to the Election Code and the name of the Law, because this was the topic of today's day, you claim that the big problems are those with ballot numbers, buying votes and so on. I call on you to contact your colleague, from your parliamentary group, Slavcho Atanasov, who has repeatedly been a candidate for mayor of Plovdiv and ask him: is there a problem with reporting the results, is it important what happens with the protocols, is it important who and how counts the ballots? Ask him, because he'll explain very well, I think, who and how they stole his election.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u102	Second line? I can't see. Will there be a hole, Mr. Angelov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u103	Madam President! Mr. Zarkov, I've always had great respect for you, as someone who has expertise, has an attitude, has a statement and has always been at least principled and accurate in my opinion. That's why I'm gonna treat you the same way. You're right, it's your inside job to organise the process of electing a chairman and why the other political parties didn't. It is a good example for all parties in Bulgaria to make such an internal choice, that is undeniable and no one can deny it. However, the question is about the very choice you made in society and the worst in your party circles, and the members were asked whether it was honest and objective and whether it happened in the right way? When the BSP offers specific things in the Election Code, it is for the Bulgarian citizens to vote, it should set an example. That's why I said it. I didn't say it for any other reason. In your inner choice, neither I nor anyone else intervened. The point is that when you give an opinion, an opinion on the Election Code, as an example, you should also give your election process in the party, because this is normal. In particular, I have not denied that there is such a problem for the sections and for the protocols. But the manipulation that takes place outside the sections is a very low percentage of what changes in the sectional committees. We all know very well that all political forces have members in the sectional committees, all political forces, including extraparliamentary forces, have 20 people inside who are observers, advocates who monitor the election process. Each of them takes the protocol. Where it is falsified or there is a mistake, then the parties' headquarters themselves check and see, issue the relevant complaint and so on. I'm saying that in the sectional committees, at least the manipulation is done. I don't deny it. The biggest manipulation we all know and we don't talk about it is outside the sections where votes are bought, people are fighting in order, people are being threatened, people are ringing in the houses, they're loading them to some Moscows, boats and juggles in different villages and dragging them out to vote for a particular candidate, whether they want to or not. That's what I'm talking about. When we are responsible politicians, let us propose that the politicians in Bulgaria will obviously not stop these vicious practices, but we, as politicians here in Parliament, should propose a way in which to stop this process outside because there is manipulation and replacement of the vote in no other place!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u104	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Personal explanation Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u105	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! For everyone in this Chamber, it is undeniable that elections in Bulgaria are being faked is an undisputed fact, but they are counterfeited usually not everywhere. They are falsifying themselves where the two candidates are fighting a very controversial battle, the results between them are very close, otherwise there is no point in falsifying them. You can see that GERB held elections for President and President Radev won with a huge majority. They expected this thing and after the elections were extremely honorable. But when the results between the two candidates are very close, then it is usually abused. For example in Burgas Mitko Nikolov for what to fake the elections, he won by 85%? Or Zhivko Ivanov from Stara Zagora! Or the Montenegrin mayor there for what to forge?! But I say here, and I cannot help but hide it, that the elections have been manipulated several times in Plovdiv, and very seriously, and for this we have videos. This thing looks at him and the court and I, as a lawyer, can say that the Law says so at the discretion of the judge. It was just that the judge got scared and said, "I do not take videos into account. " - And it is very clear that the protocols themselves are being replaced. The protocols themselves! [[Heckling]] That's right, fact. But the videos we can provide, right here, you can look at them on this wall, how the protocols themselves change. For example, in one section...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u106	The weather, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u107	...for one candidate there are 250 votes, for the other one, 102, deleted and replaced. And that's what you do, you know where? To the regional election committee itself in the lobby! That's the truth, at least for Plovdiv.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u108	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov, the weather!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u109	So, colleagues, we really need to make a serious electoral code. In my opinion, all parties must participate to prevent this outrage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u110	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u111	And the last time you forgive me, it is important that when it comes to four leading agencies being manipulated and that all day the exitpoles will be fake in Plovdiv, but that did not do it GERB, that is what Mrs. Kanazirev has already been doing the case. But I wonder why three days later she was appointed governor of Plovdiv!? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u112	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Speech, Mrs. Daritkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u113	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I admire the return of the calm tone to the Chamber and the return to the debate, which has proved to be extremely serious as far as the title of the Bill is concerned, but I do not admire the messages that contain untruths, suggestions and even lies that are made by this tribune. The responsibility of each Member of the National Assembly, on the one hand, is to be responsible for its actions, on the other hand, and in our words, because we, by constantly repeating that elections are being manipulated, cannot in any way assure voters that what we are doing is precisely in the interest of the transparent election process. In fact, the changes we are making are precisely to meet the expectations that the machine voting will be introduced in a way that ensures, on the one hand, the correctness of the procedure for acquiring machines, the clear owner, the responsible for the normal functioning and good technical condition of these machines and their correct coverage of the vote of Bulgarian citizens. As speculation, I will determine the claim that paper ballots are obsolete and are not present in this electoral code. You all know that in election sections up to 300 people are voted with paper ballots. In the context of an emergency epidemic situation, then, when the machine can really be damaged by the means of transportation, this is a statement by technical experts from which we have been informed about the machine voting, we must enable Bulgarian citizens in such a situation to be able to exercise their right to vote and to be able, indeed, by means of the paper ballot, to determine who in the next Parliament will represent the citizens of Bulgaria and will determine the future of the country. I want to dispel another speculation that such changes are made only by us at the last moment. It's not like that. Unfortunately, there has been a lasting parliamentary practice since 2009, when two months before the elections the Election Code was changed and the majority vote was introduced. The fact is that not only in BSP there is a majority won vote, but I and colleagues in this room are from the first majority elected candidates of the Political Party GERB then according to the electoral rules introduced by the Triple Coalition. Moreover, I do not want to downplay Mrs. Ninova's victory, but in parties where leadership is clear, such elections do not have to be held. I would also like to stress that in no way should it be suggested that some grand speculation is being made, because we all know that all those who are parliamentary represented are present in the selection committees, and the responsibility of each party is to broadcast such representatives, who can monitor the correctness of reporting and reporting citizens' votes in the protocols. On the other hand, I would also like to stress in terms of speculation that we have not broadcast a President of the Central Election Commission by the fact that we expected the opposition to broadcast one, all parliamentary represented parties can broadcast a President, all non-governmental organisations can do so by possibly being recognized by one of the parties. If you really want a transparent electoral process, we expected you to take responsibility and be corrective of this electoral process. We have seen that you cannot take this responsibility, perhaps because you were engaged with the internal party choice, and that is why we will launch a new procedure, but you can take advantage of offering one or choosing one of the non-governmental sector that has been offered to you, for example, by the protesters. In any case, responsibility must be shared and we rely on a strong opposition that is present in plenary, which does not allow itself, with its absence, to devalue confidence in Parliament and thus be able to really have a corrective in all the decisions and actions that we take. I believe that all of us here responsible today will approach the change of electoral rules that need to happen now so that machine voting can be realized. Because this is the purpose of the changes that we are making and that really Bulgarian citizens can rely on that they can have proper coverage of their vote. One thing I would agree with the statement from this tribune that it is the mass vote that participation in elections with a maximum percentage of Bulgarian citizens can overcome the negative consequences of buyings, of the corporate vote. This is what we expect everyone to have maximum representativeness for the next parliament, so we are making changes to the Election Code. And in relation to the fact that I really believe that it is important that all MEPs participate and be present in voting on the amendments to the Election Code, I propose before voting on the title by name verification.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. - What's the line? The line, Mr. Zarkov. You proposed a name check before the vote. Let us finish the speaking procedure, and we will do such an examination.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u115	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Daritkova, you said important and meaningful things, and I will focus on them, not on messing with opponents. Indeed, everyone should be accountable to his words, even more responsible should be to his promises and his votes and the laws that he himself has adopted. Your majority in April last year determined where only machinery will be voted and where will be voted only paper, you defined it after a debate, also not light. Then you promised that in the sections over 300 voters would be voted exclusively machine. This is logical because the hybrid system largely renders the introduction of machinery and hence gives the impression of manipulations. It is not that opposition officials say that, if you see, the elections are going to be... many of us have seen these processes... it is inexplicably the reluctance, and it is obvious to introduce the engine vote. We have already come to it several times and months or weeks before the introduction of the selection is made a fine, with which it becomes either unattractive or limited its scope, or it is difficult to conduct it, as it is now, with the machines and hence all this doubt that someone for some reason does not want to introduce the machine voting. And since you've publicly stated that you are about the engine vote, that's where the feeling of something hidden is created. The CEC's responsibility for this organization to accept the machines is impossible. It is impossible, and that is why you will have difficulty finding a new chairman. I suppose that's one of the reasons why the honorable Judge Stoeva should leave. You're a doctor and you're sensitive to the epidemiological situation. I suppose we all do, but that can't be an argument for the election process. Neither the cobs nor the spitting fingers, the submission of the paper bulletin, the use of a pen is safer than the tactile screen. I have a lot more to say...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u116	There's no time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u117	...but unfortunately, I'm running out of time. I will conclude with this: Dear Mrs. Daritkova, the truth is that the purpose of the proposals tabled is not to facilitate the machine vote, either freely or involuntarily, you will make it difficult for him, and therefore for the roll call you requested, I will not register in the Chamber for the simple reason that, even yesterday, the Legal Committee, and today, I see that every reasonable argument is confronted by the power of the arithmetic majority and the debate so does not make sense.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u118	Here you go, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u119	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Daritkova, your words do not change the facts, and the facts are such that in § 5 you do not enter the hypothesis, you do not enter the hypothesis... [[GERB's line]] Mrs Daritkova was talking about the engine vote and what you are currently proposing... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Madam President, pay attention to this House, because I have two minutes to say a few important things, and they are interrupting me! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u120	Quiet, please! Yeah, I'll give you 15 more seconds. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u121	Dear Mrs. Daritkova, you are talking about the engine vote and that with these changes you are proposing, you want to ensure that it is actually implemented. But no, you don't do that. You present the possibility of two parallel types of elections with paper ballots and with machine voting, which showed its results during the European elections. And in no way by what you have said do you really determine the necessity and the desire, and, on the contrary, you show that you do not want there to be a machine vote. With regard to the other hypotheses that you introduced, for a clearer and cleaner procedure for the purchase of the machines, only by making certain state-owned companies involved in private participation take part in the certification, auditing, companies that have stated that they cannot in any way participate in these parameters and in those components which you introduce fully show the vitiation of the machine voting. Afterwards, I will be more specific about the texts that you propose, but what I mean to say is, entirely on the contrary, you are saying that we are talking about the machine voting with what you are proposing.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u122	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. Third line, Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u123	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs Daritkova, I will allow myself to disagree with you when you say that we need to limit the talking about what are speculations and manipulations related to the electoral process. When BSP talks about such forgeries, manipulations, it's always looking for an excuse for the bad election results it's had in the last ten years. It's on the one hand. On the other hand, Mrs. Daritkova, let me remind you that GERB has won elections whenever someone else has organised them: 2009. The Government of the Triple Coalition, 2013 Council Decision (CFSP) 2016/849 of 17 December 2016 on the conclusion of a Protocol on financial and technical cooperation between the European Economic Community and the Kingdom of Norway concerning the implementation of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Kingdom of Norway on the Swiss Confederation's association with the implementation, application and development of the Schengen acquis (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 96). supposed government, 2017 I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Dear Members of the National Assembly, let us be clear when someone is talking about forgeries and manipulations, what is he really up to? [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u124	Thank you, Mr. Tzipov. A hole, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u125	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Honourable Replicators! From everything I have heard, I am even more convinced that we should vote on the title and then try to convince the MPs in the proper application of all the proposals that have made the different parliamentary groups. The purpose of the change is to look for an electoral process to guarantee the Bulgarian citizens maximum representativeness, because we are not just an arithmetic sum. We are here at the will of the Bulgarian voters, who in the previous parliamentary elections have distributed us in this way. So the majority has been defined as representative of the will of the Bulgarian citizens and we, answering to those citizens who have brought us here, want to ensure that we really put in place the machine voting with all the responsibilities arising from the CEC reports. We have been familiar with them since the last European elections the machines gave a number of imperfections in the realization of the electoral process. That is why we want to guarantee real opportunity for Bulgarian citizens to give their vote so that the next parliament can reflect the opinion, state and expectations of the Bulgarian society. Therefore, I call: not with absence, but with presence and participation in the debate to defend the thesis of each of us, all the more so that today we have witnessed a lie from the BSP. You have publicly stated that you will register when the Election Code is voted, and you have fled the House again today. Be consistent, colleagues! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I will take advantage of the call of the chairman of the parliamentary group of GERB Dr. Daritkova to calm down the tone and try to focus on this bill what it provides and what it does not provide. Dear colleagues, the long debate on the title is no accident at all. Obviously all MPs want to pay attention to the ruling majority that the objectives you set with the Law will not be achieved by this law. And here we can talk for a very long time, and we can repeat it again, and we can kill the same things. Dr. Daritkova, neither fair nor transparent nor normal election process is provided. I agree with the statement that colleagues in this tribune should not talk about a manipulative electoral process, because at least this does not contribute in any way to strengthening trust in the system, and also because these things are spoken of when there is evidence in both the court and where they should be. But that today's submitted Election Code will not contribute to solving the main problems, it is obvious. Why did we go to talk about machines? Out of nowhere, all of a sudden, one party, two, three, four, the whole country, NGOs, everyone started talking about machines. Let's get back to this: why? Because the chaos in the sectional election committees is monstrous no more, no less. How do you imagine, Dr. Daritkova, I am addressing you because I liked your speech most about calming the ball and starting to work constructively on a proposal to amend the Code, which is not constructive at all, is not in line with anyone's opinion?! We were working groups and there we were telling ourselves who has what to do, what they want to be affected and what problems to solve nothing! On the contrary, the 100% machine voting decision now becomes machine and paper at will. We specifically said why we want there to be no paper again. So, to return you to why it appeared as an idea that the engine vote would be a hundred percent in a few years, because of the chaos in the sectional election committees, because of the wrong protocols. For the tenth time I will say: two thirds of the protocols are wrong, written, written, written! I'm not saying it was intentional. You appeal to every party to broadcast prepared, worthy and so on. At 11,600 sections, an average of 22 thousand people, how do you imagine that to happen? Do you really think that's possible? Do you really think that all the representatives of the sectional committees are literate, trained and everything? I will disappoint you, far from it, and we do not, and no party does. Here the solution is not to train them, because so many people cannot be trained because some will get sick because there is turnover because some get tired, go out to rest and so on. The solution is not to count, to simplify the sectional protocol, but to simplify it as much as possible, and counting it makes it a machine, not to manipulate it, and the machine is not included on the Internet so there are no hacking attacks. We all came to one decision together: to have 100% machine voting without paper. Now all we had to do was determine whether the engine vote was going to be a machine vote, or if it could be a machine-counting vote with a paper ballot. Here you have decided that you should introduce the mixed one without asking anyone without consulting anyone and on the principle we have a majority. You have a majority, however, in the context of this political crisis, you will not get things by majority. I'm telling you this for the third time: this is not gonna work out for you, and you'll see for yourself in the next few weeks. Because the chaos will remain, there will be no transparency in the electoral process and there will be no assurance of what we wanted to provide to Bulgarian citizens, and not to mention a mass of other things. I can only quote you from art. 281...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u128	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u129	I can only quote you from art. 281, but when it comes to this article, I will tell you where the cuts must be equal to the number of votes recorded by the machine, and then I will ask you: and if they are not equal? You're not telling me what's going on. And if they're not equal, what do the sectionals do? They are erasing only one example of the chaos you will create with this law. Thank you. [[Private applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u130	Thank you. Are there lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? You have the floor, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u131	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll be very brief. I will remind you of what the Bulgarian Prime Minister said on 12 February 2020 at a meeting of the Council of Ministers, he says: "We are obliged to do what is written in the Election Code. A voice of the people, a voice of the Lord. If people want machines, they'll have machines. Note, however, what Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev said - asked in addition to machines - should there be a paper vote, the prime minister makes a finding that the parliament should solve this issue and Tomislav Donchev answers: It is purely nonsense for me to maintain two parallel systems of machine and paper voting. This makes the elections insanely expensive and I do not see reason from paper. And now I ask the very respectable majority of GERB: what changed this position and what is your goal? Tell the people the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u132	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. The following is a name check: Adlen Shukri Shevked is absent. Albena Vladimirova Naydenova- here Alexander Dimitrov Pawnov- absent Alexander Ivanov Matsurev- here Alexander Koychev Ivanov- here Aleksandar Mairov Siddi-here Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov- here Alexander Petrov Alexandrov- here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov- here Alexander Tihomirov Simov- absent Altimir Emilov Adamov- here Anastas Marinov Popdimitrov- absent Angel Iliev Isaev- absent Andrian Ivanov Raykov-- here. Anna Vasileva Alexandrova- here Anna Nikolaeva Slavova- absent Anton Konstantinov Kutev- absent Asya Atanasova Peeva- here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov- here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov- absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov is absent. Bogdan Emilov Botsev- absent Boris Vangelov Borisov- here Boris Petkov Kirchev- here Boris Yankov Yachev- here Borislav Ivanov Borisov- here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva- here Bürhan Ilyazov Abase - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov- here Valentin Georgiev Lambev- absent Valentin Ivanov Radev- here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov- here Valentin Mirchov Milushev- here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova- absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov- absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov- here Vasil Milanov Antonov- absent Vasil Tsvetkov- here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov here Velislava Ivanova Krasteva- absent Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova- here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva- absent Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - absent Veska Marinova Nencheva- absent Violeta Ruseva Jeleva - absent Vladimir Slavchev Valev- here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev- here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov- here Galya Eneva Zaharieva- here Galya Stoyanova Zhelyazkova - here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov- absent Georgi Georgiev Stoilov- absent Georgi Dimitrov Andreev- absent Georgi Evdokiev Markov- absent Georgi Zaprev Dinev- here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov- absent Georgi Kolev Kolev- here Georgi Nikolov Vergiev- absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski- absent Georgi Tenev Stankov- here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski- absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov- absent Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova- absent Daniel Petkov Yordanov- absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva- here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova- here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova- here Danka Evstatieva Zidarova-Lurtova- here Dean Stoyanov Stanchev- here Delyan Slavchev Peevski- absent Desislaw Petrov Taskov- absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov- absent Desislava Angelova Todorova- here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva- here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov is absent. Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov is absent Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov- here Dimitar Boychev Petrov- here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev- here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - absent Dimitar Ivanov Avramov- absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev- absent Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov- here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov- here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov- absent Dobrin Nenov Danev- absent Donka Dimova Simeonova- absent Dora Ilieva Yankova- absent Dora Stoyanova Hristova- here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- absent Evgeni Genchev Budinov- here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva- here Evgenia Danielova Angelova- here Evdokia Slavchova Asenova- absent Elena Vladimirova Angelina - absent Elena Stefanova Pesheva- here Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov- absent Emil Marinov Hristov- here Emil Seraphimov Tonchev- here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova- here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin is absent. Errol Osman Mehmet-- absent. Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev- absent Brought to you by Vassilev Iankov- here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov- absent Ivan Dimov Ivanov- absent Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev- absent Ivan Nikolov Mihovski- here Ivan Stefanov Valkov- here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov- absent Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva- here Ivo Angelov Hristov- absent Iglika Ivanova-Subeva- here Ilian Angelov Timchev- absent Imren Ismetova Mehmedova- absent Irena Metodieva Dimova- here Irena Todorova Anastasova- absent Honest Vasilev Veselinov- here Ihsan Halil Hakke is absent Yordan Apostolov - here Yordan Iliev Yordanov- here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- absent Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev- here Kalin Lubenov Velev- here Kalin Nikolov Popovski- here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva- here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - absent Konstantin Veselinov Popov- here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev- here Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov- here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov- here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev- here Krasimir Mitkov Subev- here Krasimir Hristov Jankov- absent Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Cristina Maximova Sidorova- absent Krum Kostadinov Zarkov- absent Krastina Nikolova Taskova- here Lalo Georgiev Kirilov- absent Lilyana Drumeva Radeva- here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev- absent Manoil Minchev Manev- here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova- here Maria Yordanova Ilieva- here Maria Yordanova Tsvetkova- here Maria Shtereva Belova- here Martin Stefanov Obreshkov- absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova- here Milen Vassilev Mihov- here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova- here Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov- absent Mitko Kostadinov Polychronov- here Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov- absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov- here Mustafa Sally Karadaye- absent Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova - absent Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer is absent Nikola Iliev Dinkov- absent Nikolay Asenov Tishev- absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov- here Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov- absent Nikolay Dimitrov Penev- absent Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov- absent Nikolay Krastev Boshkov- absent Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov- here Nikolina Panayotova Angelkova- here Nona Krasteva Yotova- missing Pavel Alexeyev Hristov- here Pavel Dimitrov Shopov- absent Petar Georgiev Kanev- absent Peter Hristov Petrov- here Plamen Dulchev Nunev- here Plamen Ivanov Manushev- here Plamen Tachev Petrov- here Plamen Trifonov Hristov- here Polina Alexandrova Shishkova- absent Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova- here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev- absent Radoslava Plamen Chekanska- here Radostin Radoslavov Tanev- here Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva- here Ramadan Bajram Atali is absent Rosen Zhivkov Ivanov- here Rosen Malinov Malinov - absent Rumen Vassilev Gechev- absent Rumen Nikolov Georgiev- absent Rumen Petrov Genov- absent Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev- here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova- missing Svetlana Angelova Naydenova- here Sevim Ismail Ali is absent Sergey Manushov Kichikov- absent Simeon Georgiev Naydenov- absent Simeon Hristov Simeonov- absent Slavi Dichev Netzov- here Slavcho Stoev Atanasov- here Smilyana Nikolova Niva-Krsteva- missing Spas Georgiev Gurnevski- here Save Yanev Panchev- here Stanislav Ivanov Popov- here Stanislav Ivanov Stoyanov- here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov- here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov- absent Stanislava Krasimirova Stoyanova- here Stefan Apostolov - here Stefan Ivanov Burgeev - absent Stay Mitev Stoynov- here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev- absent Stoyan Radkov Bojinov- here Tanner Mehmed Ali is missing. Tanya Todorova Petrova- here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov- absent Teodora Atanasova Halacheva- absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva- here Todor Baychev - absent Toma Lubomirov Bikov- here Thomas Nikolov Tomov- absent Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Hayri Recepov Sadakov- absent Halil Rexepov Letifov is absent Hamid Barry Hamid-- absent. Hassan Ahmed Ademov - absent Hristian Radev Mitev- here Hristo Georgiev Gajev-here Hristo Tanchev Prodanov- absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva- here Tsvetan Borisov Topchiev- absent Chavdar Yordanov Velinov- absent Julian Krastev Angelov- here Yulian Mihailov Papasimov- here Yavor Bozhilov Notev- absent Yavor Rumenov Bojankov- absent 124.. we have a yard. Let's move on. We are voting on the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. They voted 105 MPs: for 105, against and abstentions, there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u133	Proposal of MPs Mustafa Karadayi, Hamid Hamid and Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov: A new § is being created...: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3, para. 1 sentence, second word, second word, second word, second word, second word, second word, second word, second sentence, The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u134	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u135	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of Parliament from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. 3 of the Election Code, where the principles are. In the very article. 3 says that selective law is universal, direct. The Constitution speaks of law. It is unacceptable, in our view, the transformation of a constitutionally binding, fundamental civil right to become an obligation by law. We also think for another reason that this text is unnecessary. He did not achieve the goals for which he was asked to increase representativeness in Bulgarian politics as a whole. In no way contributed to an increase in activity during elections and therefore we propose that the word.................................................................................................. 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u136	Thank you, dear Mr. Hamid. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 121 MPs: 12, against 85, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u137	Under § 1, there is a proposal of the National Representative Anna Alexandrova under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 1 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u138	Statements? I can't see. We are voting for the rejection of § 1. 125 MPs voted: 124, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u139	Proposal of MPs Mustafa Karadayi, Hamid Hamid and Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov: A new § is being created...: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Article 14 is amended as follows: ? Formation of polling stations outside the country Art. 14. Election sections outside the country shall be formed: 1. where there is a diplomatic or consular representation in the presence of not less than 20 voters applying under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1; 2. out of t. 1 in the case of not less than 40 voters applying under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1; in elections for Members of the European Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria, such sections shall be formed only in Member States of the European Union; 3. in places where, up to 5 years before election day, elections were formed at least one election section where they voted not less than 100 voters; the list of seats and the estimated number of sections in each place shall be announced by the Central Election Commission no later than 50 days before the election day; in elections for Members of the European Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria such sections shall be formed only in Member States of the European Union; 4. outside the places under point 4. 1. 3 at the discretion of the heads of diplomatic and consular representations on the basis of the total number of applications submitted or the total number of voters in previous elections, including where the number of applications submitted for a specific place is less than 40; the heads of the diplomatic or consular representations of the Republic of Bulgaria shall send a reasoned proposal to the Central Election Commission no later than 22 days before the election day. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u140	Statements? Mr. Hamid, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u141	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, here we are proposing a text that will significantly increase the representativeness of politics as a whole in the Bulgarian Parliament. We propose to restore the old order for forming sections outside the country. Order, which was in effect until the entry into force of a restriction of up to 35 sections outside the country and the European Union, which has led to a factual impossibility a significant part of the Bulgarian citizens who are outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Union not being able to exercise their constitutionally guaranteed basic civil right to vote. These 35 sections are extremely insufficient in a number of countries - Turkey, Britain, the United States of America and so on. We therefore believe that the restoration of the old order for opening sections is fairer and will enable a large number of Bulgarian citizens outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Union to exercise their right to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u142	Thank you, dear Mr. Hamid. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. What procedure, Mr. Svilensky?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u143	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Madam President, five or six minutes ago you made a name check in the Chamber and found 124 MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u144	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u145	Just 30 seconds in the vote, I think it's an important text that gave rise to two hours of discussion, the votes in the House were 105. Only three minutes later the votes were 101. I watched you very closely on the monitor how you read the votes and I can almost bet with you that these 124 people were not present in the room. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Therefore, Madam President, we are looking at the Election Code, we are looking at a law in which we want all Bulgarian citizens to believe! We are looking at a law that is important for democracy in Bulgaria and is unacceptable to be adopted with votes less than 120. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] And now everyone who calls out to me if you want to disprove me, I propose that I now take the floor of this vote to see 124 votes from the ruling coalition. [[GERB lines.]] That's why I also asked for a group-by-group vote. After this vote, I ask you to show in groups again...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u146	Of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u147	...to see also the Bulgarian media how many MPs are from GERB, from the United Patriarchs and from Volya, in the Chamber, for which you claim to have a majority in this National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u148	Mr. Svilensky, I don't want to think you're accusing me of lying, I've been completely correct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u149	There's no such thing!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u150	You know very well that there is a practice when the people's representative is legitimized here on the list, leaving the hall. I give you an example of Mr. Valeri Simeonov, who was standing next to me and is currently on his way to a meeting at the ministry. So, please, please... [[Relations of National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] No, you can't! You know very well that colleagues are leaving the hall. They have meetings, they come in and out. [[speaking indistinctly]] But what I've established... Sit down and watch!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u151	Where's the list?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u152	Here's the list. I gave the list to the stenographers. [[Relations of National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] Please, I'm not going into a fight with you! You know exactly how this works! [[Heckling]] I put to the vote the proposal of MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Vote 113 MPs: 18, against 82, abstention 13. The offer is not accepted. In groups, please show us a half-hour rest. [[People's representatives are on their way to the exit of the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u153	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u154	Revoting? Hold on, guys. Procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u155	Procedure! [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u156	I'll give you a procedure too.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u157	Madam President, I have requested a procedure in the manner of conduct...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u158	Ah, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u159	113 voted: 15 of the colleagues from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, 98 MPs. Those tricks that you said I was doing, Madam President, with the same excuse that you approached me with, I apologize, you're doing right now. Again, where are these 124 MPs? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Are 24 MPs in a meeting right now?! And what is more important than the Election Code if it is not the adoption of democratic changes?! [[Strong noise and shouting from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u160	Thank you. Procedure in the manner of keeping and giving rest. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Well, let's just go without a break if you want to keep going.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u161	Madam President, first of all, I cannot accept the fact that the opposition, when it wants to speak out of the stands, is given the floor, and when we of the United patriots ask for it, we are denied. That's just unacceptable!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u162	No, no, I'm not saying no, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u163	No, on the contrary, I was denied. I wanted the same procedure...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u164	You've reconsidered your decision, Mr...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u165	...which Mr. Svilensky did. The way you're led. Explain to Mr. Svilensky that Mrs. Ninova lied again that when voting and watching the engine vote, BSP will register in the Chamber. If they had checked in from the beginning, maybe things would have been accepted now by over 121 votes. The BSP didn't register, but they lied that when they looked at the Election Code and machine voting, they would register. They lied! Well, now they're lying again. Mr. Svilenski could have seen for example that representatives of the Volya Party were seven or eight people in the House, and only two people voted in one vote! But he doesn't say that! The third one that lied to Mr. Svilensky. They have to the parliamentary group many collaborators and very accurately watch and read how many people the quorum is, and know that they were 124 because they were numbered and were in the Chamber. If they had any other information, they would have brought a list and said, 119 are, and these three were gone, and then there couldn't be a meeting. So don't let the opposition, especially Mr. Svilensky, lie and manipulate. This is simply unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u166	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. [[Applause from OP.]] I am always, as you pointed out, more tolerant of the opposition. Mr. Letifov, first. Personal explanation? [[The President addressed Georgi Svilenski.]] Of what? On a procedure in the manner of conduct?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u167	He called me a liar four times: "To the lies of Mr. Svilensky!" Madam President, thank you for your opportunity. Mr. Angelov, you've called me a liar four times that I'm lying from this tribune. Yes, we reported what the Chairman said. The President reported and noted 124 MPs, only in this regard he did not once raise his head to see if these people were present in the Chamber. [[Shouting and banging on banks from GERB and OP.]] So, Mr. Angelov, when you accuse from this stand, please stay in the hall and watch who raised his hand. We all know how to do roll call checks in parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u168	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Let's not put any more pressure on the situation. Mr. Letifov last, in the manner of conduct. [[Reply of National Representative Halil Letifov.]] What was it? [[Reply of National Representative Halil Letifov.]] It's a re-vote. Excuse me, Mr. Letifov. It's a re-vote. [[Heckling]] Colleagues, let's run out of procedure. Take your seats to complete this procedure and we'll take a break. Let's be patient.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u169	Madam President, honourable Members! The President has decided that this paragraph will be watched and that there will eventually be rest after it. We're not done with the procedure...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u170	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u171	...so it's not up to us. Madam President, I ask for a revoting procedure, firstly, because colleagues were in the lobby and failed to vote, secondly, let them read the meaningful texts again, with which we defend the rights of Bulgarian citizens...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u172	No, no, don't read them.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u173	...abroad.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u174	Yeah, let the coworkers read it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u175	...and give them the right to exercise their right to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u176	Colleagues, I am re-voting the proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 109 MPs: 16 against 83, abstention 10. The offer is not accepted. Negative vote, Mr. Angelov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u177	Madam President...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u178	Colleagues, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u179	... I voted against this proposal by the DPS not only because of us, the United Patriotic Front, or the previous parliament, we have proposed these texts to protect the national security of the state and to protect the Bulgarian national interests to prevent foreign countries from interfering in the internal elections in Bulgaria. That's why we made these proposals years ago. And now we see the DPS again want to make other countries like Turkey or others who are interested in interfering in Bulgaria want to do again that in the territory of the Republic of Turkey another state will organise Bulgarian citizens to vote for certain parties. It is thanks to our proposal a long time ago, to limit sections in countries outside the European Union, that we have stopped your former group president and Mestan from entering the Bulgarian Parliament. You know very well who funded it, who launched it, and you didn't want it to be here, did you? It was then, thanks to our efforts and the change in the Law, that we stopped a new anti-Bulgarian party, which was financed by the Turkish state, to enter the Bulgarian Parliament and the Bulgarian fates to depend on it. So, ladies and gentlemen of the DPS, stop your anti-national proposals! [[Shouts and applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u180	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. I'm calling a half-hour break. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u181	Colleagues, we are continuing with the Election Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u182	Thank you, Madam President. Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: screated § 1a: supposed to be in the same condition as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u183	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Vote 62 MPs: 9 against 49 abstention 4. The offer is not accepted. The Quaestors, please invite the MPs to the Chamber. Mrs. Alexandrova, move on.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u184	Proposal of MPs Mustafa Karadayi, Hamid Hamid and Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov: A new § is being created...: ????????????????? Article 36, para. 2 to be absorbed. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u185	Statements? Mr. Hamid, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u186	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of Parliament, this is one of the texts that regulates the so-called sedentaryness that answers the question: where cannot a person vote without giving an answer where that person can vote. In this way, we believe that it takes away the right of a large group of Bulgarian citizens to have no place to vote in local elections. Therefore, I ask you to support this text or to propose changes to regulate the answer to the second part of the question to the second question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u187	Thank you, dear Mr. Hamid. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u188	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to draw attention to the proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs from BSP for a change in art. 18 of the Election Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u189	This has already been voted on, Mr. Zarkov. You should've taken the attitude...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u190	Oh, yeah?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u191	Yeah, we voted it out. We are voting on a member, and this paragraph has already been voted on.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u192	I'm sorry, I'm confused!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u193	Statements on Mustafa Karadaye's proposal and a group of MPs? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. Vote 88 MPs: 8 against 70, abstention 10. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u194	Proposal of MPs Mustafa Karadayi, Hamid Hamid and Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov: A new § is being created...: ............................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 38, para. 2, p. 7 and 8 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u195	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. Vote 108 MPs: 12, against 85, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u196	Under § 2 there is a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: Paragraph 2 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57, para. 1 "1." of which: 21 all over the words The current t. 1, 2 and 3 become ct, respectively. 2, 3 and 4. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 which shall become § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u197	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u198	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Our proposal is for § 2 to drop out and remain the old position, which is to the current Code of Elections, namely: Yesterday, there was a debate on this matter in the Commission, and my motives were exactly the same and they continue to be the same. I do not consider it necessary for the name of a particular company to enter the Bill. There is no way for the company to serve without competition and without a competitive start, its priors are included in the vote reporting, provided that the Council of Ministers abandons the organisation of the elections and assigns them to the CEC, but only a company of the Ministry of Transport can report and count the votes?! Here I can think of an Eastern dictator who said: "It is not important who votes how, it is important who counts the votes. " - Perhaps this is the way to correctly count the votes in quotes. The other thing is, I admit, it is quite possible in time, in the years, that this firm will be declared bankrupt, even though it is state-owned. So then we're gonna change the law because the firm went bankrupt? Currently the principal is the state in the face of the Council of Ministers. If the Council of Ministers is willing to deal with the elections, let us not include these rules, these obligations of the CEC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u199	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Bogdanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u200	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposal we are making is in direct connection with our other idea of dropping the number in front of the party in the ballot. A highly appropriate proposal which could lead to the removal of many of the negatives that were discussed at the beginning of today's plenary session. What makes me notice? I've been a MP for the past six years. I certainly have many colleagues who have much more experience than I have, and they can tell how many changes have been made in the Election Code at least I remember four or five such changes that we have made in this time that I am here in this Chamber. And what is most unpleasant is that as if none of the parliamentary groups are looking for the right approach, they are not looking for the way to remove the negatives that affect the Bulgarian electoral legislation, and what follows from now on, and each one is looking for their own goals, following their own interests and therefore making such proposals. Here: one part of our colleagues, for example, always propose that the elections in Bulgaria be decided in the Republic of Turkey, say; another part offer such a methodology of work and such a way and a voting mechanism to satisfy their voters; others want an electronic vote because they know that they have some support from the Bulgarian communities abroad, say, from the new emigration from the European Union or America. There are also proposals that are actually part of the current legislation, which limit the ability of people in small towns to choose their own mayors. The aim is clear to you, too. When a mayor is appointed by the municipal mayor, it is normal for him to campaign and promote the ideas of the party from which the municipal mayor is elected and from which he is elected. That is why I say that no one is looking for the truth, no one is looking for the right approach, and no one wants to deal with these negatives that have been accumulated for many decades now. That is why we are making the concrete proposal: what does it mean to remove numbers in front of the parties in the ballot? It means that in this way they will be able to exercise their own right to vote only those people who are literate and who can read about which party they vote for. I am sure that you are also witnessing cases when voters in front of the section, when rushing, especially in the Gypsy neighborhoods, repeat a number and at most the first name of the candidate they should vote for. If we think this is normal, and if we think that these people are deeply convinced of the ideology of the respective political formation, then tell him health, but I don't think it is. We are constantly pleading for quality of education, for greater literacy of Bulgarian citizens. With what do we stimulate this literacy when we let the elections be decided in the neighborhoods, in the ghettos of illiterate Bulgarian voters who prejudge our destiny at least for one term ahead? And since there is a lot of talk here before me about buying votes, about abuses during the elections, well, here we will give, honourable colleagues, some funds or give your political formations, let them not be about buying votes, let them be about educating those voters who become literate and can, by going to elections tomorrow, read about who they will vote for and then exercise their right to vote. By removing the numbers in front of the parties in the newsletter we liquidate one other problem. You know that two years ago we introduced a change that affects the numbers with preferences from 100 up. We have seen that in the last local elections, the problem of the 15/15 Phenomenon was not solved in this way. If you vote with a fifteenth number for a party, you will vote to a large extent with a probability of a hundred and fifteenth number in the preferential list. But when you don't have a number in front of the party, then you will vote for the party and you will vote with the referendum, without the danger of distorting the vote and someone accidentally falling into the elected authorities, as a result that someone has gone astray and voted for it by the same number as the party in question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u201	The weather, Mr. Bogdanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u202	Therefore, honourable Members, we insist and I can say that we are surprised by yesterday's decision of the Legal Commission, colleagues on the left and by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, who are constantly pleading that they are for honesty of the vote, that they want to fulfil the wishes of the people who protest on the street, and we have seen that they voted, as well as the other colleagues from GERB, against this proposal, that is to remain the way to vote unfairly and send the illiterate representatives to determine our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u203	Thank you. - What's the line? Mr. Baychev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u204	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Bogdanov, I will begin by congratulating you on the elegant way to enter a hidden educational center, but as you have said, I quote you on the appropriateness, however, it will not be appropriate, because other than the illiterate there are people who read slowly and so on. One newsletter will be 50 "60" / 70 centimetres. I cannot say how long, and if a party, no matter which party, is in the middle or at the end of the ballot, will pass a lot of technological time until the literate person reaches his desired party so that he can exercise his right to vote. In this case, the vote itself will be closed with literate voters who are slowing down. I'll set an example with Mrs. Karayancheva just now, who had to take off her glasses to see, that is, if she forgot her glasses, and I'm after her and I forgot my glasses, we'll slow down the election process. For this reason, I advise you to focus on the engine vote, because this will allow things to happen faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u205	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Second line, Mr. Siddy.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u206	Mr. Bogdanov, I cannot agree with your elegant statement because this vote will actually reveal which parties are those who continue to insist that the elections be made in the same way. I would just remind the honourable Members that we removed the colour ballots a long time ago. The next step is precisely to remove the numbers in the ballots so that people who go to the polls can vote literately. I think if anyone has a problem with how to read the party's name and for that they need a number, you can teach them two or three letters to learn by heart. Mr. Bogdanov, I disagree with your elegant statement. Let's face it, obviously, our political class does not want us to remove the possibility of manipulating the vote in the slums right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u207	Thank you, dear Mr. Siddy. Mr. Kutev, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u208	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Bogdanov, the logic of removing the numbers in the ballots is there. By the way, BSP has used it long ago in its domestic party elections, during congresses and so on. So the logic itself has it and it has its reasons. However, the problem I think is that it is absolutely unacceptable the way in which you justify it. It is one thing whether there is logic in terms of abuse of the electoral process, but another is if logic is an educational cent. I have already once again said before this National Assembly that democracy as it exists today is the result of the efforts of many generations. For more than 200 years this parliamentary system is being built, which currently works in Europe, and in real Bulgaria, too, in the same way, certainly in the same way. To achieve this form of parliamentaryism, of voting, of electorality and of democracy, are given, I would say, calmly, millions of human victims over the last 200 years. Who are given meaningfully, who are bad, who are given for a cause, who are given by mistake, but it has cost millions of lives. No form of retreat from these democratic principles is currently acceptable, and an educational voting rate is something that upsets the process. It does not just make it undemocratic, it takes us 200 years back and makes all those sacrifices that have been made in recent years around the world not only in Bulgaria, not only in Europe, but around the world. Even if we assume there's some logic not to have numbers in front when I think there's some logic to it, but the thesis that can and should be an educational cent is absolutely unacceptable. She's antihuman to me. It is something that nullifies the entire struggle of many generations of citizens, often ended with their lives and destinies.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u209	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Mr. Bogdanov, come on in for the dot.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u210	Gentlemen, I have therefore begun my speech that everyone looks at the Election Code and reads it as the devil reads the Gospel. I can quite confidently say that you in your lines, which you have done by the Left, are once again looking for opportunities that affect your political formation personally and specifically. First of all, I did not mention anything about the educational census at any point in my speech. Secondly, not to mention that education by the age of 16 in Bulgaria is mandatory and it does not make sense that a person should have passed this age, received a selective right and could not read after being required by the Constitution to do so. At the age of 16, you have already completed the degree to which you should be able to read. Since you bring up such examples from European legislation, the struggle of the peoples for democracy, yes, this is the highest value of today's society that we have all achieved and won, but your words, Mr. Kutev, contradict your proposal for a full machine vote. On the one hand, we need to take the good European example and vote without having an educational cent, as you say without me mentioning it, and on the other hand, you say that we should introduce the engine vote only in Bulgaria, without having it in any other country in the European Union. Then specify what positions you are defending and whether you are not defending the interest of this in all my respects to your constituents older citizens who are likely to be hampered and delayed when they have to read this thing. But it's not an educational center, it's a right to an informed choice. You can read, you're a literate voter. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u211	Thank you, dear Mr. Bogdanov. Any other speeches? Mr. Angelov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u212	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My colleague Krasimir Bogdanov argues our proposal quite well, but I can also put forward arguments why there should be no number in the ballot and why it should happen. It is important for me to hear all the parliamentary groups, their arguments, so that they do not support our proposal, including from GERB, including from DPS, including from the Volya Party, so BSP can Mr. Zarkov, Mr. Svilenski, Mr. Popov or others who have always participated in the process when there are changes in the Election Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u213	Now they'll ask for a personal explanation, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u214	You know this is the right step towards having a democratic choice and reducing the vote and vote that is corporate. You know it very well, all parties know it! It's one of the steps to do this thing. You got some funny argument here that's 200 years back, 300 years back?! Well, why didn't you go back to Adam and Eve? Maybe you could set an example there, too. You're talking about morality, you're talking about democratic elections, you're going to protest. Well let all who protest and want fair elections in Bulgaria understand that today the opposition in Bulgaria will not support a proposal we have made from IMRO, which will largely solve the problem of buying and corporate vote. How do you explain that? I call on all those who protest outside every day: ask those who pretend to represent you, why not support such a thing, a practice that will really be democratic? I demand that you support our proposal, not because we did it, but to really give an opportunity to have an informed choice, to be able to reduce purchases and corporate vote. In addition, with this proposal, I guarantee you that the null and void ballots will fall sharply. When we talk that every MP should have a conscience and vote on a conscience and not on a party line, here, I call on you, do it now! Let us show the people in Bulgaria who are dissatisfied and have doubts about the electoral process that there are forgeries and manipulations.. support this proposal to show that the Bulgarian Parliament makes useful steps in reducing the vicious practices, otherwise we can really go back to Adam and Eve and talk about all sorts of things, but this proposal is correct. Colleagues of GERB, I call on you, support him! Show everyone that the ruling majority is democratic and enables fair elections. That's what's important! Go out on this stand and tell the arguments why you are against it or why you are for it? This is normal behavior in a parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u215	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. A line, Mr. Popov? Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u216	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Angelov, if you are sincere in what you are saying here, from this tribune, if you want fair and transparent elections: what are your arguments not to support the machine voting, that is, to support it a year ago, and now the exact opposite is to introduce a paper ballot? Because, dear Mr. Angelov, the engine vote is a guarantee to a large extent that the elections are transparent and that there will be no invalid votes. You are talking about some European practices here. Yes, but European practices are not familiar with the last parliamentary elections of more than 160 000 invalid votes in the last local elections of more than 600,000 invalid votes. Do you know in turnout 30 40%, as in Bulgaria, what will be the legitimacy of this body, which is elected in the respective elections, in this number of invalid ballots, votes? This is one parliamentary group and more in the last parliamentary elections. Why don't you want a machine vote? Now you're throwing some other theories here that, you see, we're about fair and transparent elections. Yes, yes, but not, as a fellow Member from a previous parliament said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u217	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Second line, Mr. Nedyalkov. Third line, Mr. Baychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u218	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Angelov, I accept some of your arguments. When color ballots were removed, an environment was created in which people learned to vote differently. You are skipping a period in which with the removal of color ballots other forms of determination were created for whom to vote without having numbers in front without numbers. At that time in many of the sections special sticks were captured, which showed the one to vote, where to put the xx or veto. So it's not gonna change, and it's not gonna turn things around. Rather, let's teach people through the engine vote to communicate properly and to press exactly this party, this box for which they want to give their vote, not the stick that will show the head where to put the x. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u219	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Mr. Baychev, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u220	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Angelov! In your statement, I didn't understand you, IMRO, where are you? You asked the opposition to support you, you asked the government to support you. Where are you? You must make it clear to the Bulgarian people that you are the governors that you have concluded a coalition agreement that this coalition agreement is not followed and that your MP Aleksandar Siddy said this morning that GERB did not comply with it. Once they don't follow it, if they don't do it, then get out of the station and come to the square to strike and skin your throats as much as you want. There's no way that the people you claim can't fix, have phones, tablets, withdraw money from ATMs, that is, they can work with machines. If you wish, support the engine vote. Otherwise you won't get a vote until the end of heaven and soul. [[Noise, lines, laughter from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u221	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u222	I am very sorry that it is typical of BSP, of course, and for the practice they have for 45 years totalitarian time to blaspheme, but it is disgusting from the Bulgarian tribune to do so, Mr. Baychev. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'm not, but what you're saying is blasphemy! And you know that very well. And it's not right with the words you ended up with... You shouldn't talk like that! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] At least you insult people in Bulgaria who are Christians and believe. At least! The other I did not hear from BSP, of all their lines, what is their argument not to support this not having a number in the box in the ballot. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Because it suits you! You are prepared to work in these elections with vicious practices. [[(Replys and shouts from BSP for Bulgaria]] And as my colleague Siddy said before, everyone who doesn't support this thing will obviously use it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u223	That's right!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u224	Here we are, from the United Patriarchs, from the IMRO, obviously we will not use these practices. Because the easiest thing to say is the trick. Sticks! BSPs know how to use sticks. And the DPS knows about sticks, but I don't see them leaving the room. But more importantly, the suggestion you have made with these lines is that the United Patriarchs or the IMRO were against the machine voting! You obviously didn't understand again or the manipulation you do every time to manipulate people from the media, from protests or from the stands... It's just, I'm speechless! We are neither against Internet voting nor machine voting. We are against the fact that elections can be manipulated in this way. And that is why there is no overall machine voting anywhere in a European country, and you know it. If the engine vote were to solve the problems of all European countries, it would have been introduced. We are not against, we are about having two voting methods and allowing people to choose whether they want to vote with a paper ballot or a machine. Why would you Democrats from the BSP take away people's rights if they wanted to vote with a paper ballot?! What do you mean? Why? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Well, why don't you ask ordinary people if they'll prefer paper or machine, why don't you ask them? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Why don't you ask them if they're gonna want to touch the machines, because who's gonna disinfect them? Are your BSP advocates going to spray? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Right! Yeah, no problem, no problem. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It's okay. But the point is that you want to deprive the Bulgarian citizens of their right of choice to choose how to vote. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That's what you want to do. And you're not Democrats! And if you were Democrats and you wanted fair elections, you would support our proposal. Everything you have said so far shows that you are prepared in the elections to do wicked practices and to manage if you possibly win with vicious practices the Bulgarian state! You are no different than the others who have ruled the country so far, including at the moment! [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] If we are bad, and GERB are bad, you are much worse!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u225	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u226	Unfortunately, it's the truth! If you're the alternative... I'm not blaspheming like my colleagues. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u227	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Personal explanation, Mr. Siddy. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u228	Thank you, Madam President! I was mentioned by name. Mr. Baychev had the pleasure today to hear some of our arguments in the studio, but he did not because he was deeply committed to quoting Maya Manolova. And that's why I'm going out to say that when we're having a debate about the ballot number, instead of saying your arguments why you're against it, although we understand them what they are, you're against it because you want to use these vicious practices, it's finally good to hear the transmission again and see where exactly I've said about a coalition agreement. I have said what will come up next about an agreement on the occasion of the Grand National Assembly and the convening of referendums. So you're cleverly twisting the subject when we talk about the numbers in the newsletters, you're talking about machine voting, these are two different topics, but, of course, that's exactly what you BSP do and that's how you've always managed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u229	Thank you, Mr. Siddy. Any other speeches? I can't see. Colleagues, we're going to vote. First, I put to the vote § 2 and the proposals to it. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 150 MPs: 55 against 89, abstention 6. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 143 MPs: 22, against 40, abstention 81. The offer is not accepted. Mrs. Alexandrova, continue. Mrs. Alexandrova, there's a negative vote from Mr. Iankov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u230	But we're not done voting. We have the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u231	He has a specific proposal... [[Replys aside from the microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u232	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am taking this opportunity to justify my negative vote on the proposal so made based on the arguments I have heard from the importers. Dear MPs, importers of the proposal not to have a number, digital expression of the ballot number! You have announced that this reduces vicious practices and you mean buying votes. Is this accusation against the Bulgarian police again, to the security services of the Ministry of Interior, that they cannot guarantee that there are no such practices? You betrayed the Bulgarian police officers and this became clear to the entire Bulgarian people of the protests.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u233	What's the connection to police officers, and in this case...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u234	You are now prepared to accuse the Ministry of Interior, the security officials that they cannot secure fair elections, cannot cross corruption practices! [[Noise and lines.]] You think with such a proposal you will also clear the doubt of such practices? No. You knew this proposal could not pass, it was not justified, but the demagogy and indirect suggestion of the work of Bulgarian policemen cannot be saved. The Ministry of Interior, the employees of the Ministry of Interior in the proper setting of the task, with all the professionalism that they show...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u235	The weather, Mr. Yankoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u236	...can secure and cross such vicious practices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u237	Thank you. I'm voting... [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Popov, come in. [[Noise and lines.]] What line? No, no, that was a negative vote. That's Mr. Yankov's negative vote. [[Replys aside from the microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u238	Thank you. I also voted against this proposal because, in essence, this is a firework, a koorfishek, which will in no way help to reduce heavy practices in elections. How does dropping the number from the integral newsletter affect filming the voting method? How will the number affect the pressure, repression and buying votes? No way! So, fellow Patriots, the trick with the number just doesn't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u239	Thank you, Mr. Popov. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 2 which shall become § 1. He's been supported by the Commission. Vote 138 MPs: 87, against 38, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. Negative vote, Mr. Nedyalkov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u240	Thank you, Madam President! My fellow Members, I voted negatively, I voted against it, because it simply cannot be supported by this symbiosis, which we are already legitimising, we are legitimizing the symbiosis between the Central Election Commission and a company that will constantly and forever count the votes in the Republic of Bulgaria! Name and some facts that are disturbing right now. I want to take one out in front of you. For example, that the President of the Regional Election Commission in Loveshko is a member of the Board of Directors of
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u241	Whoops!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u242	And it is from the quota of the political party GERB. That's why I say the symbiosis was made once and for all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u243	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Paragraph 3, Mrs. Alexandrova. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u244	Thank you, Madam President. By § 3 "Contributor' text. Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: supposed to be a member of the Board of The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Hristian Mitev and a group of MPs: In § 3 the words "numbers 33 and 34' are replaced by "number 34' is deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u245	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u246	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of Parliament, the proposal we have made is in relation to preserving judicial control in relation to the decision of the Central Election Commission setting out the requirements for the organisation and technology of the computer processing of voting data. This is imperative not because there are recommendations in this regard, but mainly because of the introduction, with these amendments, into the Election Code, of practically a mixed system with machine voting and paper ballots. To this extent, it is necessary that this decision of the Central Election Commission be subject to judicial review, all the more so that, at the first reading of our bill, serious arguments were presented for this decision to be removed from the control which the Court exercises over the decisions of the Central Election Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u247	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u248	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mitev, today in the first part of this debate quite argued our parliamentary groups. But on this issue, we agree, and we will support your proposal, I hope, and you will support ours, because it is no less than GERB's attempt to limit the possibilities for judicial control of the electoral process. That shouldn't be allowed. Since you as part of the ruling coalition do not agree, this issue should be dismissed. We congratulate you on the offer, we have done the same. In fact, on this issue GERB are alone and it will be very interesting to see the vote, because it should, once this is the case, drop this text.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u249	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u250	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Zarkov, I am making one clarification. Your proposal, unfortunately, to drop the paragraph at all will actually lead to a drop of judicial review at all after the adoption of the new item. 33, which we just voted on. Otherwise, the judicial review of this decision must be maintained. Moreover, if you remember the previous amendment to the Election Code, we did a very careful review of the decisions of the Central Election Commission, which are subject to judicial review and which should remain within this scope, and this decision was left behind. There were decisions that were purely technical and which we decided to drop from judicial review in order to bring down the Supreme Administrative Court. And in view of the fact that they do not in any way contribute to an honest electoral process, but this decision is not among them, so it must indeed remain and be subject to judicial review. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u251	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Vote 154 MPs: 61, against 83, abstention 10. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the proposal by Christian Mitev and a group of MPs, also not supported by the Commission. Vote 151 MPs: 72 against 3, abstention 76. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Popov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u252	Thank you, Madam President. Some of my colleagues failed to vote, including me, because of the console. I'm asking for a re-voting procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u253	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Please vote on such a re-voting procedure. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Vote 181 MPs: 94 against 5, abstention 82. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, this amendment remains and we will not vote on the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u254	Madam President, before that, I would like to...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u255	I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 2, noting the previous vote on Mr Mitev's proposal. That's how it works, right? The text of Hristian Mitev is in § 3: the words This text has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u256	In principle, we accept the text of the importer together with Mr. Mitev's proposal, which was adopted and just voted on.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u257	Colleagues, call off the vote and announce the result. Vote 148 MPs: 112 against 11, abstention 25. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u258	Before that, I want a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u259	First, Mrs. Alexandrova's procedure, then I will give you a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u260	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I am doing a procedure to extend today's sitting until the vote on item two is closed.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u261	Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 188 MPs: 102, against 80, abstention 6. The proposal is accepted for extension of work. Mr. Ermenkov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u262	Madam President, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct to explain to us exactly what we have adopted with the previous § 3. If you can read about the shorthand what will enter the Election Code. What will enter as § 3 and the amendments to it, I want you to read it so that we know exactly what we have voted on right now. Because what you've done is unprecedented. We have one vote on § 3, which contradicts what the importer has done. We voted on it, we accepted it, and then suddenly we start voting on something tabled by the importer, but it has nothing to do with what we voted on before that. On the contrary, they even contradict each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u263	Mr. Ermenkov, I understand your remark.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u264	Madam President, let's listen to this. Please, I think it would be helpful for all of us to read precisely the text that will enter the Election Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u265	Mr. Ermenkov, in a little while I'll read you what we're going to vote on. Maybe we'll ask for a re-vote procedure. I've asked the legal department to tell us.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u266	I'll read you what we voted on.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u267	Is that right, you're ready? Mrs. Alexandrova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u268	Madam President, honourable Members! We have just voted on the text that reads: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 58, para. 1 "The number 34" is deleted. What we adopted on Mr. Mitev, this is what we voted on right now, our last vote on § 3. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u269	Okay. We're moving on.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u270	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs: A new §.. is being created: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 72, para. 1, t. 12 the word "the number" is replaced by "the order." The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u271	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 173 MPs: 16 against 76, abstention 81. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u272	Paragraph 4 "Instruction text'. Proposal by the National Representative Anna Alexandrova under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 114, para. 1 "3." present in receipt of election papers and materials, in preparation of voting rooms and in placing of technical machinery voting devices;
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u273	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 4, which shall become § 3 of the Commission Report. Vote 178 MPs: 165, against 2, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u274	Proposal by MP Mustafa Karadayi, Hamid Hamid and Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov: A new one is being created. I'm sorry, In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 181, para. The second sentence is created: "In cases where the campaign is conducted in another language, translation is provided in Bulgarian. " The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u275	Statements? Mr. Ahmedov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u276	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Today, we are looking again at the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code. Today, once again, the Constitution of our Republic of Bulgaria is being trampled. The amendments to the Election Code without dialogue and consensus at the last moment are a prerequisite for doubting the democraticness of the elections. These changes are prerequisites for chaos and manipulation. Obviously the authorities in the face of GERB, and more precisely in the face of Mr. Borisov, have decided to go mad and will assume all this responsibility for the created chaos. We of the DPS once again propose to allow the agitation in mother tongue. The ban discredits minorities in Bulgaria and Bulgaria is the only country in the European Union with such a ban. In Brussels we make commitments and there we are Europeans and in Bulgaria we apply another archin. Dear colleagues, the Bulgarian language is official, but it is not the only language. In the Bulgarian elections can also participate non-Bulgarian citizens of the European Union... [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u277	Colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u278	For example, the leader of the leaves of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms could be Hans van Balen, the GERB could be Manfred Weber. Colleagues, are they going to be fined, too? I call on my fellow Members on the left and on the right to be aware of whether they are part of the European family. Supporting the ban is anything but European. Our proposal, when spoken in another language other than Bulgarian during the campaign, is to have a translator, respectively, and we expect to receive your support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u279	Thank you, Mr. Ahmedov. - What's the line? I can't see. You have the floor, Mr. Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u280	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want a procedure in the manner of conduct, and it is such that the Rules of the National Assembly, adopted Additional Provisions, are not complied with. Now I want you to order the cameras to walk along BSP's group, which do not demonstrively put on masks and be punished, as I was punished with 300 leva. for a moment's removal of the mask. I'm asking you to take a picture of this immediately and to pass it on to the relevant authorities. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u281	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. You understand that I could do nothing but ask colleagues from the BSP parliamentary group to wear masks in the Chamber. [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] Mr. Svilensky, a procedure or a statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u282	I will not spoil the debate, I will give you to read Minister Angelov's reply about whether masks should be worn in the Chamber. It's in the last sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u283	I think I've already answered Mr. Petrov. [[Noise and lines.]] I understand well. Statements? I can't see. I'm calling off the debate. I will put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal by MPs Mustafa Karadayi, Hamid Hamid and Ahmed Ahmedov. They voted 161 MPs: 19 against 110, abstention 32. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u284	Paragraph 5 "Instruction text'. A proposal from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly is hereby amended as follows: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the 1. In para. 1 words can be deleted by choice. 2. Allinea 3 is canceled. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u285	Statements? Mrs. Klisurska, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u286	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! With this proposal under § 5, it becomes clear to the Bulgarian citizens how you try to mislead them with your declarations that you want a broad application of machine voting. I want to tell them what you propose with this amendment under art. 206. You suggest that there should be an opportunity to vote with paper ballots at the same time with machine voting. What does our parliamentary group propose? Where there's a machine vote, there's only a machine vote. You are trying to make an editorial amendment by referring to art. 215, which regulates which sections will take place with only paper ballots. This is how you try to mislead Bulgarian citizens. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 215 in the sections below 300 voters will actually only use paper ballots, as well as mobile voting boxes and other hypotheses. So what you are proposing at the moment ensures the parallel application of two different voting technologies and the counting of ballots, makes the engine vote meaningless and increases the problems in the electoral process. I would like to return you last year during the European elections what happened to the parallel introduction of the two types of elections - paper ballots and machine voting. There were a lot of problems back then. I'll just mention some of them. Problems have arisen with the fact that it has had an impact on voters to vote with machines or not to vote with machines. The sectional committees were difficult to count the ballots at the end of the election day. In front of me are the analyses of the Institute for Public Environment Management and the open letter of the Public Council to the Central Election Commission. What did they say? Such a combination does not contribute to maximizing the advantages of machine voting and minimizing the shortcomings of paper vote, manual counting and shaping of the protocol. The other problems that arose were related to a complete non-transmitting of the preferences of the machine voting in the final protocol, partial omissions in the transmission of the machine voting into the final protocol and very technical errors. If we go back to last year, we'll see that there were 40% of the changes made in the protocols. Now that we are looking at this issue again, we will allow once again that when the results are taken into account and transferred from the machine voting to the minutes, where the results of the paper ballots will be reflected, similar technical errors will be made again. I will return the statement from a while ago, my colleague mentioned it, but your Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev in February declared it absolutely unacceptable, or something like that, to have both machine and paper voting. And when, ladies and gentlemen ruling, you declare from this tribune that you want paper ballots only if possible for technical damage, you do not introduce this hypothesis anywhere. Yes, you are! Enter the parallel choice for paper and machine voting. With this, you are corrupting all the mass use of your machines. And in this regard, I would like, here in a line, to get an answer to some basic and important questions. Ladies and gentlemen, what are you up to? Why don't you want the machines? Why don't you support them? Why do you say 'no' to the engine vote? And why are you misleading Bulgarian citizens? Ladies and gentlemen, support our proposal! It's definite! We do not propose the possibility to use paper ballots and this is the opportunity of Bulgarian citizens to express their vote and it to be reported correctly. Only the machines will eliminate the possibility of manipulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u287	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. A line? You have the floor for a line, dear Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u288	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Klisurska, I would like to clarify a few details of these important proposals with you and actually see how we get out of this situation. I agree with some of the conclusions you've made, and I would really like to find a way out of this situation. One is the engine vote. Yes, we say: it is important that there is such a solution already in the Election Code, indeed the next elections, understand those who are approaching to have a machine vote. It's considered a decision. But let's specify exactly what we're doing with these machines now? We're talking about a machine vote, but we need to specify with these machines what we're doing? We just vote with them, count with them, scan with them, count machine and vote machine? And then let's recall the fact that we missed the moment when it wasn't clear with the text, when the number of voters and the cuts from the vote didn't match, what happened.. is this vote canceled, invalid are these voices or all that we found as a result in this machine is actually null and void? And here with these proposals and that we have not specified what we are doing with the machines, but we want to actually have a real, real reading of the vote of the Bulgarian citizens and not to corrupt the vote, a chaos is created. Please answer: who creates chaos in electoral legislation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u289	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Second line? Line, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u290	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Klisurska, I cannot agree with you because you are reading these CEC reports so one-sided. What about the CEC Report after the 2019 elections and the finding that we have sections in which we have problems with flash drives in the pre-eminent machine voting? So the flash drives that contain the results are gone after the engine vote? [[Noise and lines.]] And this is the method, is this the only method by which you provide honesty to the vote? Given that your choice, in fact, of your chairman, was made only with paper ballots? [[Noise and lines.]] Assuming your thesis that only the machine vote guarantees the honesty of vote and lack of manipulation, it turns out that your vote for president is unfair and manipulated. Thank you. [[Applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u291	Third line? It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u292	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Letifov, Mr. Mitev, thank you for your questions. Dear Mr. Letifov, we've been beating the ball for six years so that we don't fully introduce the engine vote. If we read the decision of the Central Election Commission from last year, No 14 of 27 March, we will see the technical requirements for the programming and apparatus part of the electronic system. These machines have been tested, we've been talking about these machines for six years! Such machines at the moment we can enter anywhere in these 9500 sections. So let's not open the theme of the possibility of other machines. These machines are tested, with regard to certification things are settled. In this Election Code that we are looking at today, we had to arrange some technical editorial texts to make the certification and auditing of these machines more transparent. We're talking about them. With regard to what Mr. Mitev said to me, I will answer the question. Mr. Mitev, all the mistakes that were made were the fault of the Central Election Commission, which made the Methodical guidelines for using the machine voting one day before the elections! The sectional committees weren't trained. So technical flash drives, which were not reported, are related precisely to the fact that then the state did not manage to secure this process of introducing machine voting! To the question Who? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u293	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Next statement, Ms. Niva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u294	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear colleagues of the ruling coalition, I'm addressing you. Obviously you do not want to hear our arguments which are valid and consistent in support of the engine vote. And since someone was advising us earlier, ask the citizens, ask the citizens, we've asked them. Ask them yourself! Or perhaps you have not heard that citizens 62 days fill the squares with demands: resignation, machine voting, fair elections? [[Noise and lines.]] Yeah, we're here for the engine vote as a guarantee of fair elections. I will not repeat the arguments that before me the people representative Nadia Klisurska presented. They're indisputable. We have repeatedly expressed our position in favour of the engine vote in view of the fact that the vote cannot be manipulated that it is a guarantee of a fair vote. Technical parameters can be changed if desired, and they can be changed by the government. There is no need to blame the executive's obligations to the Central Election Commission. It is not the case that the arguments put forward are that part of the citizens will not be able to handle the engine vote. No, they can. Young voters will be able to do as well as adults can do the work of ATMs. So it is a matter of free will to fully introduce the engine vote in the sections with over 300 voters. And please don't throw dust in people's eyes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u295	Thank you, Ms. Niva. - What's the line? I won't. Statements? Mr. Popov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u296	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! This is the essential question, which is why there are debates here today in the Chamber for the remaining of the engine vote, which you have been wondering for six years how not to introduce it, and after you introduced it, there is not a year, now you are burying it. Everything else in this project, submitted by GERB and "United Patriarchs" is just a distraction. GERB and "United Patriarchs" do not want a machine vote. It should be clear! They want chaos, sacks of newsletters, repression, wrong protocols, usually for their benefit, and buying votes. They want invalid ballots and low activity so they don't go into political existence. However, this desire passes and is connected, and leads to a breakdown of the trust and legitimacy of the state authorities. That is why the whole of Bulgaria is protesting right now and the whole of Bulgaria is on the streets. Withdraw your proposal for this electoral code, leave the engine vote and go to the elections, and resign. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u297	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Are there any lines and other speeches? A line?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u298	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Popov, you are right about the fact that there is a filling for distraction and in a moment we will look at this greasing Grand National Assembly. But it's like I'm gonna stand up to you about who's trying to create chaos and whether it's just chaos. I think with these changes to the engine vote someone is chasing a professional victory, someone is preparing a forgery in the upcoming election. And now here he will call someone: the chairman of GERB is preparing to fake the next elections! Let's say it with a name: Boyko Borisov prepares forgery in the next election! That's it! [[Applause from DPS and BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u299	I hope you have very serious evidence as a lawyer for what you just said. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u300	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Popov, because there have been pitfalls from the Chamber not to embarrass myself, I think I will not be embarrassed in this line, but I am mostly embarrassed by the speaker. First, because once again they are trying to take part in this tribune of manipulations of the elections in Bulgaria. Colleagues, just to tell you that in the previous elections, in which all the MPs sitting in this Chamber are elected, are at 53% activity of the Bulgarian voters and more than 3,682,000 Bulgarian citizens have chosen the composition of the current parliament, where the parliamentary group of BSP has significant growth. So if there are manipulations in relation to previous parliamentary elections and you have increased your MPs in the National Assembly, say so. The other thing is, you constantly mention how unfair the elections in Bulgaria are. Colleagues, allow me to disagree once again and this is my position, which I express every time from the National Assembly stand when we talk about the Election Code. In Bulgaria, in the committees, in the selection committees members are representatives, broadcast by all parliamentary and extra-parliamentary parties. Perhaps the most observed elections by NGOs and other organizations, civil and political, are in Bulgaria. And the copies of these protocols, which you have repeatedly mentioned as counterfeits, are at least 30, 30 copies from one sectary electoral commission. Tell me: after that, if there are 30 copies, how could something be faked? It's a nonsense to me, and to all the sane citizens and people who go to elections. And just to ask you: when you are sincere and you hold for the engine vote many times, you have been asked by the whole room the question: how did BSP hold the fair elections on Saturday for the election of its president by paper or machine? Thank you for your answer. [[Applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u301	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u302	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start backwards. My fellow Member, when honest people hold fair elections, that's okay. The problem is elsewhere and you know it very well. [[Laughter, noise and lines.]] I'll tell you a few facts, because you're talking about suggestion, but I'm talking to you with facts. [[Laughter, noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u303	Mr. Jablyanov, please don't laugh! Mr. Zablyanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u304	Nearly 600,000 invalid ballots, 160,000 invalid ballots of the last parliamentary vote! One hundred and sixty thousand is another parliamentary group! Nine out of every 10 protocols wrong. In whose favor? Do you know what happened in Arena Armeec? You all know. Here's the coworker who had the sack and carried it. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] That's how you run an election. That is why we want a machine vote so that no more elections are held in this way. To my colleague Hamid. Colleague, obviously after the whole of Bulgaria has definitely exhausted its trust in Boyko Borisov, he will try to stay in power. That's what we all see, that's what the kids see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u305	In the manner of conducting the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u306	Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is to guide you. I ask you to interrupt or at least try to tell the Members of the National Assembly, when they speak, to use credible facts, to speak correctly and to really get a clear idea. Because they say you are holding elections. The last parliamentary elections are from 2017. Remind those who spoke of this tribune that the elections were then held by President Radev's office. And if they don't remember him, they've broadcast him as president, remind them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u307	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u308	Mr. Chairman, please do not allow lies from this tribune, because we all know that no sacks have been carried in the Armeec Hall. They were worn, Mr. Popov, but the hall was a university hall. [[Laughter, noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u309	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. [[Noise and lines.]] You understand that I cannot answer you, because if I do not allow such statements, there will be silence here. We've reached you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u310	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! About the engine vote. The squares are full, the opposition says we need to be at a machine-voting vote that means there's a real problem. And the fact is, the government is trying not to have a machine vote. This means that you acknowledge the weakness in fact and make sure that there is a forgery of the vote. Otherwise, if you feel that there will be fair elections by machine voting, you will introduce it. But you don't want fair choices. That is why I turn to parliamentaryism here, I address to you the introduction of machine voting, colleagues, is an existential issue of strengthening democratic values in modern society and it is extremely important that this happens. And if you want to regain the trust of the Bulgarian society as governors and be part of the ruling majority in the future, please introduce a machine vote. There's no other way for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u311	Thank you, Mr. Ebatine. Are there any lines? There are no lines. We continue in the order of the recorded Mr. Budinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u312	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I had given up making that statement, but I decided to do it because I was overexcited by your kind. I would like to address Mrs. Ninova, who is not here, unfortunately, but I hope that you, colleagues, will tell her. She usually does so, she comes at the beginning of the parliamentary day, pours out a few untruths and false political suggestions to give it all day on the news, and leaves work. But that's not the point, I hope you give it to her. With all due respect, and really good feelings for her, I want you to tell her that the higher she goes, the less she hears what people say and think about her down in the structures. You can also quote your favorite author, Hristo Smirnenski, a story about the ladder, and by congratulating her new post, I want you to tell her [[noise and lines]] because she's surrounded herself with flatterers, what people say, ordinary socialists from small structures about her. Do you know what they call it? Lukashenko with a skirt. And why they call it that, she can answer it herself.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u313	It's not about the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u314	I'm sorry, it's on the subject. You guys from BSP, talking to me about fair elections, that's just sick. I'm sorry to say that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u315	Yes, Mr. Budinov, okay. Are there lines? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Nedyalkov, it happens to you very often, even. Here you go, Mrs. Niva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u316	Dear Mr. Budinov, I'll be brief. I would just like to remind you of a wonderful Bulgarian proverb: The thief cries out: hold the thief.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u317	Who's the thief, Mrs. Niva? Another line? Mr. Budinov, you have the floor for the doppelganger. That was a line to you. You refuse to enter this conversation, okay. Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u318	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. President, I am doing this procedure in the manner of holding you really do not give the floor to people who, due to the crown, have a shortage of tribune, apparently have a shortage of audiences, apparently lack of creativity and occupy the place here to speak neither on the subject nor on the Law, nor on what is being viewed, but they are saying things that would be said somewhere in some halls of their supporters. Please, Mr. President, the Law we are looking at is important, it is important for the Bulgarian society. Mr. Budinov, if there really isn't a tribune, there is no audience, I do not question its theatrical possibilities, but not to do so in plenary. There are also other worthy artists who do not abuse this tribune. It's a parliamentary tribune, not a theatrical one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u319	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. You're right about the artists in the hall. Back to the way you were led? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u320	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! My procedure is the way I conduct myself. After starting his speech, my colleague Budinov, you should have interrupted him. It was not at all on the topic. [[Heckling]] Now he's bothering us here with his threshold of excitement, and that's not on the subject. It is obvious that your threshold of excitement, colleague Budinov, is quite high after the whole of Bulgaria wants your resignation, and you are sitting here silently, inconveniently. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u321	Thank you, Mr. Popov. To my own apology, I would only remind the beginning of the debate in which I could hardly ask the speakers to speak on the subject. [[Noise and lines.]] It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u322	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My procedure is in the manner of conduct, directed entirely at you. Since morning we have been listening to untruths and extremely insulting and rude words to a large part of the room and your intervention is not at all. The debate is about the Election Code. Please, let's get back to the subject and keep working. If colleagues in the last few weeks were trying to get some kind of PR at their own election, we saw it happen. Let's solve the problem that is at the moment, with the choices ahead. When will they be? We'll see. So please return the debate to where it belongs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u323	Thank you, Mr. Tanev. Are there others in the manner of conduct? [[Noise and lines.]] I will ask if there is still a procedure in the manner of conduct, take the floor, say what you have to me as a guide and move on to the substance. Mr. Svilensky made a statement. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Ivanov last raised his hand. Before him are Mr. Svilensky, Mr. Vangelov, Mr. Zarkov and only then is he, after him is Mr. Atalay. If you're not happy, colleagues, watch out for who raises your hand. I have to, so I'm writing down who's who. [[Heckling]] Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u324	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I am glad that we have returned to the topic of Master's Voice. And since this issue has been discussed for the sixth year in the National Assembly, fourth in this National Assembly, and you all voted for the introduction of the engine vote, you all voted repeatedly and supported a budget in which there was a machine budget, and you said that in the next election there would be these machines. We also set up a working group to come to a consensus on this issue, must or should not have machines. After all, we have been talking for two hours, debating in this Chamber and hearing from you again arguments that there should be no machines, that the vote will not be more honest, that the crown crisis will make people sick by the machines. So you're not looking for a solution to the question of how to do this thing, but you're looking for arguments on how to explain to us that this thing can't happen. Including Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev in the old plenary hall long and wide explained to us how there will be machine voting in the next elections, how there will be money from the budget, how there will be no problems, how there should be and they as a government are a guarantor for the introduction of the machine voting. And now I wonder, are you boycotting your own government, boycotting Mr. Donchev, boycotting Mr. Borisov?! Who are you sabotaging in the end, as it is clear to everyone that when there is a double vote, two versions - paper and machine - there is virtually no paper or machine? I mean, let one of you really come out and say. Yes, it may be a heavy responsibility, it may be difficult to say, but it is good to say once and for all: Because you have 95 MPs, we have 78. The majority is yours, you decide. But you cannot fool the MPs for six years, the Bulgarian citizens, the government, the Central Election Commission, the chairman of the Central Election Commission, who resigned because of the engine vote. Gather your strength, come out and say: "This is not a priority for us. For us, this is not part of our election programs. This is the wrong move for us, and that is why we are not going to put in an engine vote. When you win the elections from the BSP, enter whatever you want. "You don't say it, but you chicane the process in a variety of ways. You use it in other paragraphs, you use it through the budget, you use it through working groups, through committees. Ms. Karayancheva, my request is to you as President of the National Assembly, broadcast by the largest parliamentary group: go out and tell the opinion of the largest parliamentary group do you want in Bulgaria to have a machine vote in the next elections, or do you not want to have a machine vote in the next elections? And if the answer is yes, then we accept the proposal of our parliamentary group, if the answer is not, we continue to the next paragraph and there is no point in speaking. It's clear the ratio. You can't fool and manipulate public opinion. I remind you again: both Mr. Borisov and Mr. Donchev and the government have so far stated support for the engine vote. And you, with all your efforts here, in this Chamber, are doing the opposite of doing a boycott. I mean, it's not enough that the whole of Bulgaria is protesting and asking for his resignation, and you are parliamentaryly sabotaging it. I mean, please really, Madam President, if you can, if you have this opportunity, come and answer this question. [[Reply of the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva.]] Yeah, you're entitled to a line, of course...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u325	No, no, a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u326	...or of speech as you wish, it is your right, but ultimately to become clear once and for all to the Bulgarian citizens. GERB and then the Patriots, and they, if they have the courage to say what they want, even better and we will clear the matter and go to the next paragraph. There is no point in overflowing the same arguments for six years, then the same elections in the same way, in Gerberski, in colornovski, I can say, the same results and in the end it is clear where Bulgaria is located. That's why my request is...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u327	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u328	...to answer the question, to introduce machine voting, resignation, elections...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u329	Finish your thought already.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u330	...and to the next again, who elected the Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u331	- What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Vangelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u332	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am impressed that all day BSP colleagues have been repeating in different forms the same thing: that machine voting is a guarantee of fair elections and that we are against machines. I will be forced to sharpen their attention on three facts. First, colleagues from BSP, do you deny that in Bulgaria, in Europe and in the world there is an epidemic of coronavirus and that it is growing? Do you think there is a coronavirus in Bulgaria and that we have 18,000 infected people so far? Do you think that holding elections in the conditions of epidemic and pandemic does not endanger the health and life of people, in particular the introduction of machines? Do you guarantee that these machines will be disinfected in every section of every settlement? Again, we're not against machines! It's just that you want to have only a machine-voting vote. That's why I'm sharpening your attention. A machine not to be cleaned and disinfected, how many people will then touch it and do you have a guarantee for our parents, for our grandparents, for the elderly? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Colleagues from BSP, you also have members of sectional election committees, which are also elderly people, as well as GERB, as we all have participants in the committees. Can you imagine... And look at what happened in neighbouring Macedonia, because elections were held, protests were held, because the sections themselves are not always insured, and not in any section can be provided hygienic conditions for the election. Why are you ignoring this fact all day and mocking anyone who comes out to talk about the epidemic? Why don't you wear masks in front of all of Bulgaria for days? We wear masks and only Mr. Stoinev is regular in this regard. [[Laughter]] We wear masks regularly and protect you from us, but you obviously don't want to protect us from you and you don't demonstrably wear your masks. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Another thing I'm going to repeat, because you've been saying the same thing all day. Let all Bulgarian citizens, all Bulgarians hear about the 100th time we will tell you: there is no country in Europe that will use only machine voting! If you want me to repeat it again, because you've been saying this is a fair election panacea all day? The whole of Europe is sank in unfair elections because nowhere does it use machine voting, and the other fact is that in the Federal Republic of Germany, which is unlikely, even Mr. Gechev would dare to accuse of undemocraticism, is the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Germany. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Germany is calling off the engine vote! It was annulled by a decision of the Constitutional Court of the Federal Republic of Germany! And the last one. Once again, I will say this because you repeat your mantras jamming and forcing us to repeat things that we have already said in the debate. We're not against the engine vote! The only thing we want is for the people who go to the sections to have a choice to have both paper and machine voting and who enter to choose which of the two options to vote on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u333	Thank you, Mr. Vangelov. Three lines, okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u334	Dear colleague, I am also making a reply to you for the 101st time, if I have to tell you this: there are no such practices as in Bulgaria in Europe. There are no such null and void ballots in Europe. There is no vote buying in Europe. Did you know that in your statement Germany has done a survey and asked people: would you sell your voice? They don't know what it's like to sell their vote. Once they've explained: yes, we'd sell it for 1,000 euros. That's the answer in Germany. They do not have these practices, there is no sacking, there are no wrong protocols every nine out of ten to be wronged in favor of the ruling political power, which are your colleagues from GERB. There are no such practices, so there may not be any machine voting. There is no racketeering, no pressure and buying votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u335	Thank you. Mr. Ivanov, second line. Third line, Mr. Svilensky. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'm sorry, but there's no lines from just one parliamentary group, is there? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u336	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Vangelov! My line to you will be infinitely brief. Since you say that BSP colleagues have been repeating the same thesis all day, but do not answer one question, I will ask myself this question to you, perhaps you will answer me: how did they vote on Saturday for their choice of chairman with paper or machine? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You answer from this tribune, colleagues, and do not answer me in this Chamber! And the other thing that is also, Mr. Vangelov, you can answer me: when someone here is talking about percentages, about invalid ballots, it is important to mention also, my call to you is in Germany, in Hamburg, one year ago the elections, there were 17% invalid ballots. Were they declared failed elections, the federal government in Germany, in Hamburg specifically, were there reproaches on it, or perhaps someone who lost the elections, seeking justification and not mentioning, evasively fleeing from the fact that statistics show that Bulgaria is the golden environment of the actual ballots? I also regret any Bulgarian voice which is invalid, but this is the world statistics and is not only in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u337	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Third line, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u338	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Borisov, this is what I asked for in my speech: to say about the voting machine. Eight months ago, there was no coronavirus, you boycotted it again. Now there's a coronavirus crisis, and you're coming up with some crazy arguments, believe me, people are laughing at us. For example: does it matter whether there will be nine thousand machines, or will there be three thousand five hundred machines? Are they less contagious than those nine thousand? When Bulgarian citizens go to the selective room and decide to vote machine, will they be less infected than using the machine or using the paper ballot? Don't say things that... I understand that you've been assigned to do it, to search from a hundred wells of water, this well is empty, you can't make anything out of it. You say: let us remove the elections, because in Serbia elections have been held and people are very sick. That's what you said, you can't seem to hear yourself. Take out the transcript. Yes, you said: in Serbia, people got sick, thinking about what to do with the elections. [[Reply: "Macedonia," Macedonia!]] Macedonia, okay, I apologize. And one last thing. Because several times from your parliamentary group ask questions why colleagues from the BSP parliamentary group are without masks. Dear colleagues, come prepare to work. It is very important for the MP to read. When he can't read, he can ask. And when he asks and answers, consider and perform. And since you are asking the question, I and a group of MPs have asked Minister Angelov: in the Chamber, this one here, do we have to wear masks? Elementary, no need to argue, Minister of Health. He's issuing orders based on the Health Act. And Minister Prof. Angelov answers: I will not read it to you, I believe that the above anti-epidemic measures should be applied in the building of the National Assembly in the places that are freely accessible and where citizens are served or accessed. In fact, you know there's an order from the Chairman of the Assembly not to allow visitors. So, honourable Members, when you do not know, read when you read, understand when you understand, do not expose yourself from this tribune, because every word said here is important not only for MPs but for Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u339	You've gone too far in time. I only listened to you because I wanted to tell you, Mr. Svilensky, this order can be interpreted in another way. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u340	Tell me, how can a citizen come in from over there? Because you're holding them right now...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u341	This room is open-access. You're free to go in here. Very funny. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Here you go, Mr. Vangelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u342	Dear Mr. Chairman, there is no point in this line, this is their behavior, ignoring the danger to health, to people and so on. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I want to tell you very clearly, Mr. Svilensky, that you are not wearing masks in the hallways and in the bar of MPs, not only in the hall, you are not wearing masks anywhere! So that order was completely pointless to you. Otherwise, for the engine vote, how guaranteed or whether Europe has democratic and fair elections, or not, I will repeat my colleague today, obviously, we will repeat ourselves, but this will be the whole day: 17% in Hamburg. Well, then declare them invalid.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u343	Thank you, Mr. Vangelov. And Mr. Zarkov. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Ivanov, you follow him. I'm sorry, but there really are a lot of people in your group.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u344	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! After these bold reflections on the epidemiological situation and artistic statements, I would turn your attention to what is proposed in the Law. We've been listening to machine voting for several years. Paper voting problems have also been in place for several years. Believe me, the worst system we can come up with is to mix the two. And here I really don't want to address politicians, not experts, not lawyers, but some solid logic. We agree that the machines will be just machines or machines and paper, they will engage a very serious organizational and financial resource of our country. There will have to be an organization for their acquisition, they will spend money, they will fight in places, they will be certified, they will be stored or hired. Why are we doing this as a people?! Because they have a few helpful actions. The first is that they don't allow a null ballot, it's not possible, and that question is solved. The second, do not allow one other phenomenon to use preferences, disregarding preferences, because the machine guides you and your newsletter will be with a reference. Thirdly, they allow much easier, smoother and unmistakable drawing up of the protocol, as you have a large receipt. There may be disputes about machines and their contagion, but there is no question that they are doing this. And that's why we're willing to give tens of millions and make an organizational effort. Do we agree? However, if you put the paper bulletin next to this machine, then everything becomes largely meaningless. On the one hand, at least one of the voters in this section will continue to vote with the paper with the problems identified. On the other hand, the final act of drawing up the minutes will be even more complicated because the data from two different ways of voting will have to be applied. Therefore, a great deal of what the machine can bring will be destroyed. At the same time, none of the problems of the machine voting itself, including its price, will be solved. There are two other issues to which I would like to draw your attention if you make a hybrid vote. How many machines do we need? If we know that in all sections over 300 people are voted with a machine, then we can relatively, almost to the count, consider that in section But if you don't know how many people are going to vote with this machine, imagine what will happen in a section where, you see, suddenly people there only want to vote with a machine, but there is only one machine, and people are 440 people. And they don't want to vote with paper. How would you react to that? Why would one voter have the right to choose and not another? There are pros and cons and debates, led for years for one way or another, but in one section both the experiments we are talking about have shown it. We at BSP, for example, evolved on this topic when we read the experiments conducted by the CEC. At first, yes, it sounded good for people to have a choice. It's like everyone decides how to vote. The truth is that experiments show that this way the machine loses largely its advantages. Our effort becomes largely pointless and, agree, there is no politics in this, there is some logic. Last but not least, we have been noted, including by independent experts in the Legal Committee, that there are observations as the sectional election committees direct voters to the machine or to the paper. They are instructed to give people, for example, the paper bulletin or to somehow conceal the possibility of machine voting. This has been used and we can guess how it will be used again to spend now some money and in time to say: here, you see, people don't want, just a few percent voted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u345	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u346	I'm done, Mr. Chairman. My last word is this: machines make sense if they're exclusive. The National Assembly only nine months ago decided to do so in the big sections. There is no reason to go back unless you really want to sabotage the election process.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u347	- What's the line? Mr. Ademov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u348	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Zarkov, your statement provoked me to go back about ten years in the time when the then ruling coalition, adopting the electoral rules, thought it could personally win several additional mandates. Your enthusiasm, your expertise, your desire to convince the rulers in the same way was a tool in the hands of the then opposition. Unfortunately, as a result of the electoral legislation adopted in 2009, the then party GERB, which first appeared in elections, won 24 mandates for office. Why am I saying this? Because I am sure that one day, when fair, democratic and transparent elections are held, this electoral code will return as a boomerang on those who are now adopting this legislation. Be sure of that. The practice shows this very finding.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u349	Thank you. Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u350	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Zarkov! In the spirit of the debate, I just want to stress this. In the last election, when all the political forces had united, machines were introduced to quite a few polling stations, I think 3,000 polling stations. Then statistics showed that 26% of those who had the right to exercise their vote were using machines, people were about 26%. For us as rulers, apparently others in the Chamber, we are wondering what to do with these 74%? There may indeed be a large part of them willing to use these machines, but purely technologically still afraid. There was also a mention of the pandemic situation in the room. Maybe that'll turn out to be some... I stand on the side of the thesis without being the biggest supporter of the machine voting that the Bulgarian voter should have the opportunity to exercise his right to vote. That's the most important thing to me, and that's why I'm taking that line. I replicate you with regard to using only a machine, only a paper bulletin or the mixed type. I think that the Bulgarian electoral and Bulgarian MP after the next elections, held in this way with a mixed electoral system, we will be able to draw more conclusions, give more answers than questions now you raise. Apparently, we won't be able to respond to them right now. Again, I stress that only 26% of those who have the right to vote have benefited from machines, the other 74% - what should we do with them? We can't cross off their voices. The other thing I'd like to highlight. You're saying that they're really going to slow down and maybe the invalid voices are going to disappear. I will just remind a little of the story.. in 1999 more than 1 million Bulgarian voters in the local elections and especially in the lists for municipal councillors were not respected ballots. There's a story in Bulgaria and I think we're walking...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u351	Please finish your thought, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u352	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I'm done. I think history shows that the sectional election committees and the Bulgarian voters can exercise their right to vote and 7.6%, I say again, are in the golden environment of real ballots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u353	Thank you. Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u354	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Zarkov, with my respect to you, I will speak according to the procedure of the election itself. I assume you can hear me, I can hear other colleagues. The elections that are coming will be the 26 of my 1992 election. You've been to the Sorbonne, you're much younger than me and so on. I would like to say something to all my fellow MPs, or we need to focus on a system entirely on machine voting, or we need to focus on a whole paper system. I don't engage my political power, I say it from personal experience after 25 choices behind my back. With the mixed system in the sectional election committees, there will be great chaos. [[(Voices from the BSP for Bulgaria: ……]] That's my opinion. Once again, colleagues: either just machines or just paper. Otherwise, they will always find each other, and for good reason, people who pretend that elections are being manipulated. That's my opinion. Once again: it is a personal opinion, I do not engage my political power.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u355	Thank you. Mr. Zarkov, you have the floor for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u356	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm taking this opportunity for a duplicate out of respect for replicators. Dr. Ademov, you have more experience than I do in the development of political processes in the country, but in general, a principle of justice is that whoever changes the rules of the game so to win it, usually loses exactly those rules. God knows what will happen next, because our Election Code, especially in the last term, changes in months. Months! The issue of sustainable legislation is key, as well, I move on to Mr. Ivanov, the issue of sustainable solution. When a few years ago you decided, promised, committed to the introduction of the engine vote, its success or failure depends largely on the steps taken for its vote, including the experiments produced. I explained to you that the small number of voting machines during the last experiment can be explained in several ways. One way is that, in fact, if there is not a sufficiently clear campaign, if people do not know the machines, if the CEC has not done its job, some of them may prefer the traditional voting method just to come to them. However, there are other reasons. One is how the sections were chosen, where to place these machines, the other is how the sectional election committees worked with regard to these machines and so on and all the things that you know and who proved us that Mr. Atanasov is right, that there can be pros and cons in any decision, but mixing these two will sharpen all the cons and will vaporize most of the pros and for that we will pay hundreds of millions of levs. The only solution to remain true to what we had already promised, to what you voted in April last year, is to introduce more than 300 people only machines into sections below 300 people only paper. It seems fairly simple to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u357	Thank you. Mr. Atalay. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Colleagues, excuse me, but this is exactly what is written in the Rules, and now Mr. Atalay will speak and then Mr. Ivanov. Here you are, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u358	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, this is the first time I have climbed the new platform in the new hall. [[Applause from GERB]] I hope all that I have to say from this tribune is heard by a single person. This is Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. Dear colleagues, why are we looking at the Election Code? In fact, with every law, and when an amendment and an addition is introduced to this Parliament, it is with the idea of improving and eliminating those gaps that have been made so far. What are you removing with your bill, which you are currently proposing to us? Do you remove the doubt of the entire Bulgarian community, of all voters and give them peace that they will already be sure that the voice they give goes exactly to the party for which they voted? No, you guys don't! Among you, colleagues, especially from GERB, there are sufficiently reasonable and thoughtful, at the same time MPs who have already been participating in elections for a long time. You fully know that this bill you are proposing is only in your support, and you are legitimizing further forgeries that could possibly happen. So far you've been aware that you've done them, and now you think people don't see what you're thinking of doing anymore! Colleagues, the introduction of the engine vote is the next step by which you send a message to the street.. both to the protesters and to your voters, and if we introduce the engine vote and all machines begin to draw out those protocols or to the machine census, then in doubt or calm in both the rulers and the opposition, especially those who are calling out today:..Omission!... will understand that we think well enough and think that the next elections should no longer be on the Italian principle...................................... to give the left running before the elections, or the football shoes. Dear colleagues, all that you are doing today does not work for you! Everything you're doing today doesn't work for the political class! All that today with efforts to work until 20:00, and wait for people to come over here to the building and show us that we cannot and should not determine the fate of the next elections only to be Prime Minister Borisov the winner will not be able to achieve it! I am convinced that if he listens to us today from here, from this House, he will understand, and those who insist and don't give him correct information that in order for there to be fair and transparent elections, those elections needed for society, those elections necessary for you as a ruling party, he will withdraw this bill and will have to re-submit in this House a text with the following content [[GERB's line: "Tell me what it is! "]] Honourable Members, if we bring the serenity and conviction of voters that their vote will be taken into account precisely and clearly, you do not need to talk about compulsory voting or threaten people with a pandemic. Dear colleagues, with this bill, you, especially from the so-called patriots, are a greater epidemic and a pandemic for the voter than...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u359	Thank you, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u360	...the coronavirus of COVID-19.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u361	Please finish your thought.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u362	Therefore, by finishing, I say to you: the blame for the consequences of this bill will be on Prime Minister Boyko Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u363	Time, time!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u364	So, colleagues, I would suggest you withdraw the bill, not to look at it today, sit at the dialogue table...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u365	Mr. Atalay, you're way out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u366	...and all political formations to decide how and how to introduce fair and transparent elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u367	Are there any lines? Line up, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u368	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Atalay, I am making a line for you, because the thesis under the paragraph in question is a part of the changes to the Election Code that you have developed is extremely important. On this paragraph, which we are discussing, as if after an hour of debate on it, no one knew exactly what we were talking about. But for this hour of debate, it became generally clear that there are doubts in this bill, including the ruling majority. So I would really like you to say again your call to the Prime Minister to ask his majority to withdraw this bill, to have enough time to see where the underwater stones are and where are the risks in what we are discussing and voting today. Because we've already put a few bombs in the adopted texts. It is not clear when the fragments taken from the vote in the machine and the vote themselves in the machine do not match as a number, what happens to this vote. From now on, we are talking about partly voting machine. A chaos is created, but let's see what the outcome of this chaos is! Because we have committed violations at the beginning of the Bill, and after an hour of debate it becomes clear that coalition partners are also doubting these texts. So let's go back to the text and see what the solution is, to hear Prime Minister Borisov about the chaos created and go back to the table for dialogue and talks, where he can truly gain the trust of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u369	Another line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u370	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, my address and my message from here to the Prime Minister is very serious. You have seen that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms in all these years, when it comes to elections, has always made its own mistakes. We were never that political formation that tried to repeat her mistakes again. Do not be the political formation that will force a new election law, which will benefit you no more than repeat your mistakes. You weigh enough on all the things that are happening in the country, you weigh on yourself! And one more thing! All those amendments and additions that you have made in both the Rules and the opportunity not to give your political formation to create a new political formation, a new alternative, and the stubborn non-imposition of machine voting and machine counting today does not lead to a good outcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u371	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor. [[(Radio, applause and cheering by BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u372	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Having had the opportunity to listen to all the problems of the speakers, including the international situation, the infection in Macedonia and the contagious points, I was now under the impression that there was some serious methodical persistence not to introduce the engine vote. I can only tell you that this vicious repetition, which we are witnessing a few months before all elections, the ruling GERB party, regardless of which edition it is, whether it is with the United patriots, whether with united Democrats, or with whatever else you want to call them, are beginning to change the Election Code firmly not only the changing of the Election Code but also the making of elections, is perceived by the Bulgarian citizens as a serious understatement of their intelligence and patience accordingly. So as not to say that most of them perceive it as a pure insult. Dear colleagues, over 60 days here, outside, people are telling you one thing: we want a machine vote! We want fair elections! - I don't know which of them didn't you understand? You have decided that you want to hold a Grand National Assembly! Well, these people, they don't. They want fair elections, they want to vote with machines. You're persistently forcing this thing to become combined with ballots. Do you understand that such a way of working, such a way of voting, such a way of legislation will increasingly push people away from the electoral process? With a similar way of working, with a similar way of voting, with a similar way of organizing the election day this National Assembly is delegated! Unfortunately, you're delegitimizing the next one! It's the truth! Because here today, when we are finished and you support the text with the mixed system of machines and newsletters, what will remain as a feeling in Bulgarian citizens, the messages you send from here to them are: "Dear Bulgarian citizens, we do not respect your will! All we care about is our party will and our party interest! Do you understand? Why don't you listen to the words? Why not listen to the messages of Bulgarian citizens? 60 70 days these people here are yelling, every night they say to you: "Stop it, stop it, stop it!" The sociologists in a different form tell you, by means of a survey, was it that the Bulgarian citizens have lost confidence in you and want honest elections, which you once again do not provide them! On the contrary, you say to them: "Bulgarian citizens, we make fun of you today, and you do what you want! " - Is this the way this National Assembly works? That's why it's run out! Unfortunately, I fear that the next one will be exhausted before it even begins, because the credit of trust you are eating today. That's the truth. Dear colleagues, if you support only the engine vote today, it will be a clear, accurate and serious sign to the Bulgarian voter, to the sovereign who has some will and you want to corrupt. That's the problem! Really listen! It's not the problem in Macedonia, it's not the problem in Serbia, it's not the problems in infectious pens or machines! The problem is the will of the lawmaker! The problem is here, buried in this room, that you directly tell the Bulgarian citizen that you do not respect his will, and he told you: "You have been sent here to represent us, and you do not represent us, but a tight party task. Honourable Members, please consider for once, because you will get a really serious slap from Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[(Applause and cheering by "BSP for Bulgaria": Bravo, bravo!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u373	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines? We'll continue with Mr. Kutev, who requested a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u374	Dear Mr. Hristov, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. I'll start with this: look how strange the story is. It rotates periodically and brings us back to square one. About two years ago, you and I had about the same situation when I came to tell you that some mothers in black T-shirts: the System is killing us, should enter the National Assembly. You understood or didn't understand what I was saying to you because the situation was really tense at the time and I spoke to you behind the ear while you were leading and there was a scandal because they didn't come in. Now we are facing the same situation because some of these mothers and the children are downstairs in front of the Office. I apologize for being such a fan of conversation, but in the National Assembly it turns out that they cannot enter the building because of the coronavirus, let us say that there is some explanation for this, even though I think it is too much, but that the child with the stroller cannot go to the toilet, I apologize, is a form of injury that I am telling you definitely that, as the last time has become a huge scandal, so it will be now. I did my best to go and see the situation. I took the trouble of talking to the head of National Assembly security. They tell me that they have instructions that a child can not go to the National Assembly, whether with a cart or not. My procedure is as follows: I ask you to take action immediately so that these children and mothers have access to the toilet. And the second is if you don't solve this problem in 10 minutes, give after the vote a break, so we can solve it another way. But I'm telling you, once again, you're making a stupid mistake that is absolutely unnecessary. Please take action now! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u375	I'll give you that, Mr. Kutev, you're really good! Yeah, I'll take care of it. Will you help, Mr. Kutev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u376	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u377	Okay. I'm gonna ask you, I'm really asking you to commit to this case.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u378	Order them to leave!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u379	Yeah, yeah, sure, sure. Madam President, something...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u380	I'm gonna go meet him.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u381	We continue with the speeches. Mr. Karadayi, you have made a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u382	How long ago?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u383	I follow the order and follow the Staff Regulations if possible to change the speakers from different groups. [[GERB's line.]] After Mr. Karadaye, there are two more so far.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u384	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am listening carefully to the debate that is being held today, on this point, the Election Code, and particularly this debate at the moment that is being held, on the way of voting. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! This debate had to take place before proposals for amendments to the Election Code were made. This debate did not take place. Today we are witnessing how there is an attempt to impose an Election Code, which we believe is a retreat from the honesty, transparency and democracy of elections. With the Election Code, I am convinced, and with all the changes, all of us here in this House want to have some next elections - whether it will be early or regular, to take place in a normal environment, to be honest and to be transparent. There are defects in the electoral process. I'll just list some of them. First, the huge number of invalid voices. Secondly, the subjective factor when counting the ballots. Thirdly, the huge number of faulty sectional protocols that are the basis for taking into account election results. GERB in the first vote argued that the possibility of paper voting should not be eliminated, but we all know something here that is very important: there should be public and civil control of the elections and, above all, the results. Then wonder what is the aim of just so quickly having an Election Code without constructive debate.. mostly about the way of voting, because we have a lot of experience? Experiments for machine voting have been made since 2009 in Bulgaria, especially the faults of 2019 of the European elections. I hope that all those who speak from this tribune have read them, be aware and seek a solution for solving these defects. However, I, from today's debate and from the proposed changes, do not see any way to solve these problems. Then we ask ourselves one question: after all of us and especially GERB want some honest and transparent elections, since we want to make it easier for Bulgarian citizens to be able to vote, since we want to give confidence to the Bulgarian citizens that their vote will be properly taken into account in order to increase voter turnout, then one is the only answer to GERB most likely their President Boyko Borisov has given instructions to create chaos with these changes so that once again there can be opportunities for counterfeiting of the elections. Mr. President, closing my speech, I say that these issues that we have raised: eliminating the invalid voices, eliminating the subjective factor for counting ballots, eliminating errors in the section protocols and having civil control over the elections and election results, I am making a procedural proposal to end the debates on item two, on the Election Code, to sit very responsibly to come to a solution to these problems that I have set out. There is a solution, as long as there is the will to solve the problems. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u385	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. You're suggesting that we call off the debate on point two, that's the point of order?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u386	Under the Election Code, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u387	Point two. I'll ask the Quaestors to invite the MPs into the Chamber. We'll put Mr. Karadaye's proposal to the vote. [[(Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova: Will there be any lines?]] I'll give you my word on this until the MPs come in, I'll give you the floor for a line to Mr. Karadayi. Are there any lines? Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u388	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Karadayi, I am glad that the tone in your speech was still more relaxed than the previous colleagues. Probably, when colleagues stood on this platform, each of them had to state how they voted in the last elections, whether by paper or by machine. For a large part of you, colleagues, I am convinced, and from the DPS group that they have voted with the newsletter. [[(DPS lines:) You're lying! You're lying!]] Colleagues, I said I guess. [[DPS lines.]] Mr. Karadaye may be able to disprove me. For BSP's group, I'm more than sure they preferred the paper bulletin. [[(Replys from BSP for Bulgaria]] Some of the most jealous colleagues of the machine vote, who even this morning on national air said they had voted by machine, could be disproved. I would like to say that a normal and correct debate is not conducted in this way, gentlemen, which you are calling from banks against me, is conducted in another way. I would like to say that the correctness of the election results, the faith of the Bulgarian citizens, that their vote is respected and correctly reflected, does not come from this... [[(Laughter and lines from DPS and BSP for Bulgaria]] Yeah, I can see that's a line. ...from having endless disputes, then hardly those who voted in the referendums, for example in Switzerland, can disprove them that they do not recognise the vote of their citizens. As funny as it may be to you, colleagues, as much as you are screaming from these lines, I again call on you to have a more serious attitude than what you are demonstrating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u389	You're way out of line. Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Are there any other lines? Hole, Mr. Karadaye, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u390	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Atanasova, you obviously did not hear the statement of Mr. Slavcho Atanasov, not only did you not hear my speech. In response, ladies and gentlemen, I do not suppose that Mrs. Atanasova understands elections, electoral process, election legislation, fair elections, transparent elections, democratic elections, I do not suppose! However, colleagues, to take advantage of the opportunity given to me once again to say that there is an opportunity to make a normal election in this situation of political crisis, which is accompanied by a health, social, economic crisis, and these crises will deepen, and we are currently in a political crisis. It is good to think about and very, very responsible to approach the next elections, which will most likely be early, but whether they will be early or regular, does not matter at all. Again on the eve of the elections, an election code is required to create conditions for chaos and prerequisites for counterfeiting of the elections. Mr. Slavcho Atanasov said very well: mixing the two systems further aggravates the process itself, creates conditions for chaos and further creates conditions and prerequisites for counterfeiting of the elections and most likely from GERB that is exactly the goals. In addition, just one more thing to say. More than two years has been the debate on engine voting. The executive power, with all its administrative power, did not ensure that the machinery, the executive power with all its power did not ensure that the software was made by the state, the audit and certification were of the state in order to guarantee the integrity of the elections. Moreover, in two years, all the power of the executive did not do so, and today, with the Election Code, you are transferring the issue of obtaining the machines of the Central Election Commission, which neither has the administrative capacity, nor has offices, nor has anywhere to store them, nor does it have the resources to guard them! Think about it, guys! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u391	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Colleagues, I'm going to put to the vote Mr. Karadayi's procedural proposal. Vote 192 MPs: 91, against 95, abstention 6. The offer is not accepted. We continue with Mr. Chenchev's statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u392	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the debate, there were all sorts of things, and some absurd ones heard. We have come to the point that in the motives of some colleagues there was some reason, but we cannot say in the full sense that the machines will increase the epidemic environment, all the more so that in the motives that the colleagues have given, interestingly why they do not apply, say, for urban transport or that next to every pen in a secret room we will put disinfectant. The very fact that we have not seen a single employee disinfecting the bank in this tribune for more than two hours, and otherwise we are very concerned about the anti-epidemic situation. [[(Comments from GERB: Not true! We resent the lies.]] A short while ago, a colleague from your group called for this debate not to be conducted with calls, but it is interesting what you are doing now, including the chairman of your parliamentary group?! I think that about an hour and a half ago I did a procedure with which I reminded the National Assembly what your Deputy Prime Minister said and, more precisely, the person who in your government is responsible for holding the elections, Mr. Tomislav Donchev, who said on 12 February 2020 that it was pure nonsense the introduction of the mixed system after the prime minister had announced that we were going to machines. I am very interested now to hear the opinion of Mr. Donchev and does it correspond with yours? And if not why? He's in charge of the election. What's more, if you're willing to have machines or not, and Mr. Svilensky just talked about it, tell yourself so you know. I think you don't have that desire, and I'll give you an example of why. In fact, you are politically hypocritical because when you were told by your prime minister that you should support the engine vote, then it turned out that the CEC did not have a budget for such voting or to buy these machines. Imagine if we had entered into the hypothesis of early elections, how could the CEC be responsible for holding elections, without how many million were for these machines provided by the government and the Council of Ministers?! Then how can we believe that the Council of Ministers, the government and you want there to be a machine vote? That's not gonna happen. Everything else you're making here as an argument, of course, is absolutely untenable because you see public attitudes, and I'm not just talking to you about protests. It's not about the people who are out there, it's about the general opinion of the people. You know about sociological research and everything else, what they say and what machines want and nothing more. If you believe that the pen and paper will contribute to better elections, I think none in this room is convinced of this thing. Finally, but not least, a colleague from your group asked us how we voted at our internal party consultation and whether it was on paper. Dear colleagues, you can't compare it and I do not understand why you are doing it to compare domestic party elections with national elections with the participation of dozens of parties with different interests. One party -- an internal party choice, and you're comparing this to national parliamentary elections in the Republic to parliamentary government? It's funny!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u393	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. - What's the line? The line, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u394	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to draw attention to the speakers that we have a theme and such unprepared former journalists as Mr. Chenchev to come out and talk to us the same gum, to repeat about the chemical several times, I think this is an insulting attitude towards the MPs. We can't listen to some quibbles, some fairy tales, that the choice, you see, of a man who's about to become prime minister, is something quite like that, by the way, consulting people, and why the other candidates gave up, that's not interesting. However, let's respect each other and when we go out, Mr. Chenchev doesn't take the role of Mr. Budinov on stage.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u395	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Another line? You have the floor, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u396	Dear Mr. and Mrs. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I do not know how to respond to this line in order to have enough seriousness for the Bulgarian National Assembly. I do not know each of us who is former in what is present and what is present, but surely in front of our names right now there is a member of the National Assembly. Today, we have heard many calls, including those to make a remark to the speaker about what he says from the stand, what to say, what not to say, but I think that my colleague who made a line from here is certainly about some other room. It is about some other room, because at the moment this is actually being debated on a matter that is being put by the people outside, and not just by the squares, but by many other organizations. What, who and who is preparing for prime minister, where and how to choose, this is an internal party job, so I really don't understand the meaning of this line when we discuss the Election Code. Machines are a wish because I wouldn't talk about will anymore, we associate with another word, and people's desire is machines. It's the simple truth, you all know it. I know you're wondering what arguments to make to disprove the opposite of the fact that the machine guarantees fair elections, nothing else. If the debate goes on like this, can we hear that if the power goes out in the election room, in the election section, we should probably also provide generators for the machines? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] So I don't see the problem. The problem is that you feel you're leaving from power, but at last the people will triumph.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u397	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Ms. Karayancheva's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u398	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My procedure is in connection with Mr. Kutev's procedure. By 10:00, I received a letter from the mothers of the System killing us. This letter was addressed to all parliamentary groups and to all independent MPs. I'm not going to read it all, but in the end, I'm going to read what the mothers want from us and every single parliamentary group. In connection with the exhibition they have done, any Member of the National Assembly can read it. They write like this: In connection with the above, please find dignity and courage to meet us, to provide you with our point of view and to try to reach a constructive solution for reconciliation of the people. We propose to organise a meeting in the parliament building between our representatives and representatives of the National Assembly at your discretion between 16 and 18 September 2020. I don't understand right now why moms stay down there and wait. I've sent the letter to all the parliamentary groups. Colleagues, please be so kind as to find time to meet the mothers of the System killing us in those two days that they are. There's a child downstairs, colleagues, it's my request, and I'm calling the mother: let the child go home because he's at risk here. I don't want to think that... I'll stop there.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u399	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u400	Let me finish, Mr. Chairman. Children should not be used, mothers will be heard as they have always been, and I do not think that they should sit down, because there is indeed an order based on the Minister's order for crossing regime in Parliament in view of the COVID-19.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u401	Mr. Chairman, I want a statement on the Election Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u402	Thank you. Mr. Kutev's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u403	Madam President, Mr President, honourable Members! What you have said now is, in my opinion, the worst political version of development, not for you specifically, but entirely for the National Assembly. First of all, we've already made an appointment with them. You can do it right away, you can do it whenever you want. This isn't about the meeting. The question I asked is not about the meeting. We are talking about a simple humane attitude towards people who are currently in a situation of protesters. We are talking about the prestige of the National Assembly and that your action will now result in severe damage to the prestige of the National Assembly. [[GERB lines.]] My procedure, as I hear that some people are calling from behind, obviously there is no attitude in the majority to approach the issue rationally, and because I, unfortunately, am convinced that this issue does not end the way you see it, so I want now on behalf of a parliamentary group a half-hour rest that you cannot refuse me. [[GERB lines.]] In the meantime, consider your situation. Just because you're meeting them in three days doesn't mean you can leave a mother or a disabled child with no bathroom access. What you're up to is not gonna happen. [[GERB lines.]] You'll see the result in the evening news. Personally, I insist that you change your position, and that is why I want a half-hour rest immediately, which I hope you will understand that it will not go this way. Thank you. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u404	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Ten minutes off, guys. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u405	We're continuing the hearing. There's a statement by Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u406	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The topic of engine voting has been debated for quite a long time and everyone is trying to say that we from GERB do not want machine voting. Not at all, especially since the government voted 70 million. BGN, which can be clearly and categorically given only for machine voting. Why, though, did we also foresee a paper bulletin? During the first reading of the Bill, I had the opportunity to base myself on many different arguments. I'm going to do one or two here, and I'm going to do a new one. The machines, however good they are, can be blocked and broken. What do we do if a machine in a remote village breaks down? I'm told we'll replace her with someone else. Where will we find it and how long will it take us to deliver it to this village so that the electoral process can continue so that we can not limit these people's voting rights? You all say that we are looking for broad representation, we are looking for broad public support, in Parliament to have more representatives of more political forces and to have greater legitimacy. In this way, do we not restrict those people who are there? Second, we have a machine that's in the election section. There's an old lady coming in who's having a hard time handling the vote. Blocks the machine or can't be fixed for 5, 10, 15 minutes. Who's gonna help this lady vote? And where does the secret of the vote go here? There are young people outside waiting who are, of course, impatient, who are of the technique and are very quickly able to vote. Why deprive Bulgarian citizens of the opportunity to choose? Someone once said that we, by putting the paper ballot, predestined the vote and the citizens wouldn't reach for the machines. Not at all. Whoever wants to vote on a machine that wants to vote on paper. However, it is very easy to speak from the parliamentary tribune and in the media at all, that if you saw the lack of machines would corrupt the vote, the vote would be stolen. Dear colleagues, I told you last time: make a program that really guarantees good development of Bulgaria, convince voters that this program can really be useful for them. Use the arguments for the benefit of the people in favor of their better life. Excuses with manipulated elections and what is even spoken by forces outside parliament... Of course, sometimes there are really manipulations, but these manipulations can only be removed by the good will of the MPs here. It is therefore important to give the opportunity and not limit the vote of Bulgarian citizens by putting paper ballots. The paper ballot also gives some of our citizens the calm that they can exercise their vote, because many of them, when they realize that there is only a machine vote, will be worried and will not go to vote. Someone here is explaining to me how they pulled their money at the ATM. At the ATM, this guy has all the time during the day, he can stay 25 minutes in front of the vending machine. But there are 50, 60, 100 people waiting in front of the ballot box. His anxiety will be enormous. I will not repeat myself at first reading, but these are part of my arguments, from the arguments of my parliamentary group in favour of mixing the vote with machines and with newsletters. Once again, we GERB are not against the engine vote. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u407	Thank you, Mrs. Karayancheva. Are there lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u408	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Ms. Karayancheva, what you said does not answer the most important and important question. This is what the CEC reports, the reports of the Public Council, the reports of NGOs: when we allow for two parallel types of elections with paper ballots and machine voting, we ensure that a number of technical errors are made. How will you respond to those Bulgarian citizens who have not taken into account the results of the machine voting when transferring to the protocols? I would like to draw your attention to the fact that last year there was a special report and he said: when the results of the engine vote were transferred and the results of the paper ballots were aggregated, more than 40% errors were made, where there was such a double, parallel election. All these Bulgarian citizens did not receive the adequate result they voted for. I'll give you an example. At the moment, I have the scanned protocol from section 80 in the 23 electoral district of Sofia. The results of the machine voting on the transfer to the Protocol shall be radically different. What are we doing with these Bulgarian citizens? When you talk about the remote village and when you talk about the elderly people who can't handle it, that's where the executive role is. We've been moving the ball for six years and things never happen. These machines must be made demonstrative within the campaign how to vote. There are training videos with which the Central Election Commission last year did not ensure the awareness of the Bulgarian citizens. And that predestined the use of some of these machines. But when you talk about remote villages...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u409	Finish up, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u410	Excuse me, I'll just say in the village of Septemvriytsi, Dobrichko, last year in the CEC Report says: 97% of the remote village of Septemvri have voted with machines. [[GERB lines.]] The municipality of Sarnitsa you're talking about also 320 people have used... [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u411	Thank you. You've exceeded your time. The meaning of your examples is the same. We get it. Mr. Ivanov, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u412	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Karayancheva, please answer us from the stands when you are sincere when you say you want a machine vote, or when you are talking about manipulations, because I think the second one is much more true. That's why we want 100% machine voting, because these manipulations are this little pebble that turns the car around. For your concern for small settlements you can read the Election Code. It says that in sections below 300 people are voted with paper. So don't worry about them. Small settlements will vote with paper. [[Heckling]] We are talking about these sections where the vote is taken, Ms. Karayancheva, mass. And where the chaos will happen, when they start counting who voted with paper, who voted with a machine, what happened. Explain to those who then vote for local authority, where they do not take into account the preferences of the paper vote, Ms. Karayancheva. This is what we want to know when you are sincere, because people do not believe you and it is really better to resign.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u413	Do you have a third line, Mr. Popov? You're giving up. Third line, Mr. Kasabov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u414	Madam President, Mr President! Mrs. Karayancheva, I will be as brief as possible to make one remark. Everything you say is true, but you missed something very important. Why do the left side want machines? Although there is a sad experience in the world. This is President Maduro's choice of Venezuela. One million false voices, and with machines with nothing else, thanks to the Russian hackers. The Millies think I'm talking from the left and the middle here of the DPS that the second 9 September will come. Last time September 9th came with the Russian vending machines, and this time they think they're coming with the Russian hackers. This is the whole idea of the future and from now on to rule the country on that Russian, Bolshevik mentality. That's it, this whole debate is going from there. Machines, Russians, one President Ru Radev, who has Russian rule, and the state comes out of the European Union the dreams of Bolsheviks. Thank you. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u415	Thank you, Mr. Kasabov. You have given an example of how to observe the prescribed time for a reply. Hole, Mrs. Karayancheva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u416	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. About the protocols, the protocols will be simplified. Cuts are coming out of the machine, which will be counted and verified by what acts as information from the protocol. The other protocol, which will be from the paper ballots, will be checked in the same way. There's ballots, there's protocol, there's data. Of course, there's no way in small villages they care so much about what the CEC tells them. When I say small villages, I mean not villages with less than 300 people who have voting rights, but villages who have 1,000 people on the electoral lists. And, Mr. Kasabov, I support what you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u417	Thank you, Mrs. Karayancheva. Yes, I saw you, Mr. Ivanov. Enough with the handshake. Please come in for a procedure. [[Laughter and excitement. A line from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] How many times already? Okay, I'll give you the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u418	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I am doing a procedure to end the debate on this article. I think enough opinions have been heard, enough arguments have been put forward for..................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u419	Reverse procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u420	Yes, come in, Mr. Taskov. [[Relations and excitement.]] Ah, sorry, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u421	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making a reverse suggestion that we continue with this discussion, because in fact here lies the key to all the changes that are being made in the Election Code. Because here is currently playing out an unworthy scene of hypocrisy for Bulgarian citizens on one side, which is supposed to talk about machines, but basically an attempt is being made to remove them. I can't understand this hypocrisy?! Why don't they get up from here and say, "We're against machines, let's vote only paper?" And something that's even worse is being suggested that I can't understand why even the President of the National Assembly accepted them?! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I give reasons why the speeches should continue. Please don't interrupt me. [[Noise and lines.]] And the President of the National Assembly also joined, and if any MP does not represent the state, then the first to be in it as President of the Parliament should be aware of what interference by a foreign country means, an accusation of interference by a foreign country in an election process from the platform of parliament and the agreement with this thing by the President of this Parliament! So if you think we should stop saying things right now and stay on that note, you can go on! This is your style, your way of working, your way of closing the mouth of the opposition, your way of hiding from the truth! But it won't save you from those outside! I'm telling you this very seriously. And so let's continue the debate, hopefully you'll come to your senses. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u422	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Voting regime for the procedural proposal to end the debate. Vote 183 MPs: 107 against 72, abstention 4. The procedural proposal has been accepted. Moving on to the vote on § 5. Firstly, a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, the non-discrimination of the Commission. Vote 186 MPs: 79, against 105, abstention 2. The offer is not accepted. Negative vote please, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u423	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I did not support this proposal of Cornelia Ninova and BSP and I will say why. Because this electoral code, despite the changes in recent years, was created by BSP and Maya Manolova, who was then a MP from BSP. And all the suggestions made by BSP colleagues that thanks to this electoral code there are manipulations, there is no democracy in the vote they must bear responsibility. We see in the previous term, and in this term of parliament, they are constantly proposing changes to the Election Code that they have created, and there was an opportunity to make it so... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u424	It's a disagreement, what...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u425	...to be democratic and to be honest. They have made such an election code that we have been dealing with for years. We see today Maya Manolova protesting her own Election Code. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That's why I voted negative, why stop me? I'm entitled to a negative vote. That's a negative vote. I say why I'm voting against it. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Because it has duality. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Why wouldn't I have a right? I didn't speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u426	Mr. Angelov, don't get into a fight.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u427	The other thing I want to say about the duality that's in BSP. Why, in the previous parliament, colleagues, when we had to elect the Ombudsman Maya Manolova, did we not vote machinely with the panels, but we voted with ballots and the choice was democratic and honest for you and she became ombudsman? Why didn't we vote from the consoles and vote ballotably? Was that a false choice for your BSP candidate who became an ombudsman? That's what I want to ask you: what did the ballots bother you then, why didn't we vote machine from the consoles? Because you're talking about what you're getting rid of right now, and you're not talking about what should be a permanent position of a political force.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u428	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u429	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I didn't raise my hand to prevent my colleague Angelov from speaking, but I raised my hand for revoting. I'm asking for a re-voting procedure. Thank you. [[The National Representative Georgi Svilenski is approaching the stands. Loud noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u430	Sorry, it's over. [[Heckling]] No, I can't. [[National Representative Georgi Svilenski is on the stand.]] You can't want me to stop him like that. You should have asked before then. I'm sorry! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u431	There's no right to a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u432	No, there is, because he hasn't spoken.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u433	He didn't say anything? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u434	No, he didn't. This is where the speakers are recorded. He hasn't spoken. [[Noise and lines.]] We're moving on. I shall put to the vote the text of the Committee on Importation to § 5, which shall become § 4. They voted 193 MPs: 109 against 84 abstentions. The motion is accepted. [[The National Representative Krasimir Tsipov requests a procedure.]] Yes, Mr. Tzipov, I saw that you wanted to make a procedural statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u435	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'll make two procedural proposals. The first is to end today's sitting; and the second is to continue tomorrow with the consideration of the Second Voting of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u436	Disagree with the proposals? Here you go. [[Noise and lines.]] May I have your attention, please? Silence!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u437	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleagues, today I do not understand what is happening in this House. So far, we've had an offer to cancel and postpone, and you didn't want to. Now you're starting to want to. Obviously something's changed in the last three hours. I personally have my assumptions exactly what has changed, but stepping on your own arguments so far that the Election Code is important, the elections are obviously coming up, gentlemen ruling. Postponement at the moment, this very evening, in my opinion, is not in the interest of parliamentaryism. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB and OP.]] Now would be a good time to figure out what you really want. You want to take responsibility for what you do, and if you want to take responsibility for it tonight. Do you want to move out on the streets right now, because that's also a question? [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]] By the way, as someone with experience in parliamentary life in all situations, I am telling you that it is more dignified to complete your work. [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u438	Thank you. I didn't hear motivation why exactly you disagree with this proposal, but... Anyone else? [[Noise and lines. National Representative Georgi Svilenski is approaching the stands.]] You have no right, we're in voting mode. [[Loud noise and lines.]] We continue with the vote. I put to the vote the first proposal to terminate today's sitting. Vote 189 MPs: 109, against 78, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Now I'm voting on Mr. Tzipov's next motion to continue the Bill of Change... [[Heckling]] Sit down, please, and put on your mask. [[Noise and lines.]] We didn't...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u439	The hearing is over. You have adjourned!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u440	I put to the vote Mr. Tzipov's next procedural proposal to continue discussing the election code point as the first point in tomorrow's sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u441	The man wants the word for a reverse offer! [[National Representative Halil Letifov raises his hand. People's representative Mustafa Karadaye is banging on the bank. Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u442	Vote 174 MPs: 108 against 65, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Re-vote. Here you go. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u443	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, excuse me for returning you, but there were colleagues who failed to exercise their right to vote. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] That's why I want a re-voting procedure. And you broke the rules, Mr. Chairman. The second procedure Mr. Tzipov made, I had the right to take back my opinion and to offer back, but you took away my... [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] No, we made two votes with two procedures. The second is also entitled to a reverse proposal. I was going to propose that we vote on the procrastination for next week. This is a violation of regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u444	Have you taken your seats? It's a rethink mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u445	Can I vote right?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u446	Everyone has to take their assigned seat. Sit down, please. Please, the Quaestors, pay attention to the people who raise their hand. [[Noise and lines.]] We're waiting for Mr. Slavcho Atanasov and Mr. Kolev. Vote 158 MPs: for 105, against 53, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here's the procedure. A gesture of goodwill...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u447	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the gesture. Since in the commotion that happened, honourable Members, there was no possibility to re-vote BSP's proposal to introduce the engine vote, the system has considered my vote negative. That's why I'm announcing a positive vote and entering the transcript. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-16.u448	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
