ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! [[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Mr. Simeonov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u2	Madam President, I propose that a review of the Gambling Act be included on the agenda of today's meeting as a second item on the agenda. PRESENT TSveta KARAYANCHEVA: Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. Colleagues, I'm going to put Mr. Simeonov's proposal to the vote. Vote 163 MPs: 102, against 45, abstention 16. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF THE AGROCKING CAREER. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 3 February 2020. The report from the Committee on Agriculture and Food will introduce us to Mr. Raykov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Before presenting to your attention the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Food, please allow Dr. Petya Petkova, Director of the Agricultural Chain Policy Department, Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, and Dr. Ilian Kostov, Deputy Executive Director of the Food Chain Risk Assessment Centre.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u4	Please vote on the procedure so made. They voted 143 MPs: 132, against 4, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Mr. Rykoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u5	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on the Agricultural Chain Management Bill, No 002-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 February 2020. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 5 February 2020, discussing the quoted bill. The Commission's work was attended by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests: Associate Professor Dr. Janko Ivanov Deputy Minister, Dr. Petya Petkova Director of the Agricultural Chain Policy, Dr. Galya Kostadinova Head of the Food Safety Department, and Diana Fileva Acting Head of the Department in the Directorate of Legal Activities and Law of the European Union and by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency: Anita Pashova Director, Emil Krastev Head of Department in the Directorate of Legal Affairs, Penka Maneva Head of the Department, Dr. Daniel Denev Chief Expert in the Directorate of Animal Health and Feed Control, Dr. Boris Borisov Director, and Dr. Antonio Radoev Head of Department of the Department of Veterinary Medicinal Products. The draft of the reasons for it was presented by Deputy Minister Ivanov, who explained that it uniformises the rules for control and coordination between the competent authorities throughout the agri-food chain, which are currently regulated in numerous separate laws. The Law also provides for the application of Regulation (EU) 2017/625 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 March 2017 on official controls and other official activities carried out to ensure the application of food and feed law, animal health rules and animal welfare, plant health and plant protection products. In this regard, the Bill shall be governed by the competent authorities and administrations implementing state policy, official control and risk assessment on the agri-food chain, as well as their functions relating to the exchange of information regarding the risk of the agri-food chain. The general and specific requirements for official controls and other official activities of the agri-food chain in the territory of the country shall be laid down. The conditions and procedures for sampling, for the determination of laboratories for official controls and national reference laboratories are laid down. The effective implementation of official controls is envisaged to draw up a multiannual national control plan, the implementation of which will be reported annually to the European Commission. The coordination and interaction of official controls with other bodies and the implementation of administrative assistance and cooperation between the competent authorities of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Member States and the European Commission are regulated. Crisis and emergency measures shall be defined as well as the financing of the activities related to official control of the agri-food chain. The relevant administrative criminal provisions shall be established. The transitional and final provisions make the relevant amendments to the Law on Veterinary Practice, the Law on Feed, the Law on Plant Protection, the Law on Implementation of the Common Organisation of the Markets of Agricultural Products of the European Union, the Law on Agriculture and Planting Material, the Law on Animal Health, the Law on Wine and Spirit Drinks and the Law on the Center for Risk Assessment of the Food Chain. Under-laws on the application of the Law should be issued within six months of its entry into force. In the subsequent discussion of the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria, they stated that they would not support the bill and noted that they found it unnecessary to adopt a separate law, provided that all competent authorities and their control functions are currently described in the respective laws. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms group called for sufficient time to be given between the first and second reading of the Draft Law to refine the texts and to coordinate them with all stakeholders. Following the debates held, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 13 votes, 1 vote against the Council of Ministers and 6 votes abstentions proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Agricultural Chain Management Bill, No 002 01 10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 February 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u6	Thank you, dear Mr. Rykov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u7	Madam President, honourable Members! This is a law that in the last three years has been offered to us for the second time. A very strange law, because there is almost nothing new about it, if I may say so, except for one part that concerns an update, but I will further examine what it is. In this bill there are the following proposals. First, a repeat of the legal framework in ten and now the law in force that concerns the food chain. These laws have their competent authorities. They're still doing their duty. The first part of the bill says who are the competent authorities in the field of food. The question is, why do we have to repeat them? Why should we say that the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, have responsibilities regarding animal health, for example? Why does the Ministry of Environment and Water have competence in water cleanliness? Why does the Ministry of Health have competence regarding mineral and spring waters? So the first part of the Law is a retrospect of what is now in the current legislation. Again, I would like to repeat that it is synchronized with European and there is no drama there, there is no problem at all. [[Noise.]] The second part of the bill says: there are 38 regulations in the field of food and they are: first, second, third. The regulations act directly. There is absolutely no need to list them because we are obliged to apply them. The reasons of the importers are referred to an update of the legal framework. The only thing I see as an update on the legal framework is the amount of fines. In practice, 50% of the bill is fines, which are much more than already in force and adopted in this framework. A few examples can be given to you as to what fines are imposed. If, for example, there is activity in an unregulated food site, the fines are now moving from 6000 to 8000 BGN. In the proposed bill they reach 100,000. BGN, in various shades of this. But how will you assess whether you are endangering, not endangering, is there any economic harm? These are things that are not described, and perhaps the one who carries out the penalty could hardly judge such a broad limit of fines how it can be applied, but 100 000 leva. is something that, at least in the Bulgarian legislation and in terms of food has not been offered nor accepted. [[Noise.]] Higher sanctions for any attempts to thwart control, whatever that means. These sanctions amount to 10,000. lv. Penalties for cases where assistance has not been requested again, the sanctions amount to up to 10 thousand. lv. In other words, the new and the current are the sanctions offered in the Bill within sufficiently broad limits, and these broad borders give space to who will interpret the Law and how they will apply these sanctions. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill, in the section "Sanctions', covers 650 thousand businesses. I can't imagine what would happen if, on the basis of the bill adopted, based on the sanctions adopted, which are decisions... [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u8	Please be quiet in this room, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u9	The interest is extremely great, I suppose, to this bill, but I have to make this statement because I am convinced... three years ago when it was proposed that this is a law that does not need to be adopted or updated. Either way, as it turns out, every three years we offer it again. The last parliament failed to accept it. I very much hope that I will draw your attention to what will follow. If we have to adopt a bill just because we are going to sign something that will not be applied, it is better not to make efforts at first, second reading, to create tension. Agree that every business operator who works in the agri-food chain when he reads 30 pages of sanctions which of the more insane will probably get into a situation better not to deal with food production, distribution and trade. It is the easiest way to open our market, to do what is necessary to import food, to create prerequisites for Bulgarian business to go somewhere at the bottom of its development. We absolutely do not support this bill! We believe that, in the way that it is presented, what is proposed will not only create legal chaos, it will also cause significant damage to the business operators who work in the agri-food chain - 650 thousand in number!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u10	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Abase.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u11	Madam President, honourable Members! The proposed bill is very important because it affects millions of food producers, millions of food consumers, millions of food traders. Its scope is so great that we cannot lightly ignore and quickly, quickly, pass a very important law. It is true that now the whole topic of the food chain is a very scattered issue in ten separate laws, and it is in the responsibilities of at least four ministers, as separate parts of responsibility, which creates, naturally, and many problems due to the fragmentation of commitments and the dispersal of the legislative base. Unfortunately, this bill like everyone else has a very long history. The work on it started as early as 2015, in 2016, it was first introduced into parliament, if I am not mistaken, then even a notification to the European Commission followed, then for a long time no financial justification was received. In any case, in 2019 a working group is established which starts working again on this bill. Why? Because the first bill is working on one regulation, in the meantime, again, the regulation is changing again. I am telling all this because I have a bad memory when I hear that a bill is being worked for several years, that a bill should gather within it the legislative base of several other laws. All of this I am setting as an example to remind you that this also happened with the infamous Land Law, which failed loudly last year. I very much hope that by making an analogy with him as a development of the law, this bill will not follow the fate of the Law on Earth. By the way, not only the Law on Earth, but also several other laws did not see the light of day in 2019. As this bill went to work, I very much wish it would not reach the same phase as the Law on Earth, the Law on hails and several others. Dear colleagues, if we are going to make a mechanical congregation to collect ten laws in one, and we are not going to change the policies in the sector, I think it is not worth the exercise. Many times we have witnessed a mechanical collection of laws that have been scattered into several others to make one that actually does not work. After all, honourable Members, the problem is not the lack of legislation. The problem is the implementation of this legislation by the administration. We will support this bill, but please give the importers the maximum time between first and second readings, so as not to repeat what happened the other day to the Veterinary Activity Act To have a maximum length of time for contacts and discussions with the industry, for consultations with the industry, and not only with the big ones, but also with the small ones, so that the good ideas laid down in this law will again encounter misunderstanding due to bad communication. In the name of contact, of dialogue, of communication, I ask the importers to make it possible to extend the time between first and second readings as much as possible so that this discussion can pass and create a good law that will be useful to everyone in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u12	Thank you, dear Mr. Abase. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Azaq concluded with the words: "I hope we pass a good law. " - I don't know how good the law we will pass. He himself said that this was a collection of laws... absolutely unnecessary movement. I understand the importers that we need to comply with European Union Regulation (EU) 2017/625, but, as far as I have information, not all European countries have a law that is a set of laws that are responsible for the agri-food chain process. I will give an example in the bill itself: "Department I " Authorities of State Policy " and it is published: the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Economy. In Section II, Official Control Authorities are once again ranked the same. So we're repeating, wondering how to fill this bill. And what Professor Bachvarova said about the fines. You remember when we were looking two or three weeks ago at the Oil Rose Act, and then I told you: an hour ago, we accepted the essence of the bill itself, how we would support farmers; two hours It's pretty much the same here. There is no way to encourage our farmers so that they can deal with plant farming or livestock farming. We are once again making a sanction law with those sanctions, which Professor Bachvarova also said, up to 100,000. BGN, you know what kind of signal we give farmers today? We cannot support this bill from our parliamentary group. In my opinion, this could have happened calmly in a regulation of the Council of Ministers, in which these things would be summarized, well structured. Replaying something in a bill that has so far been done seems unnecessary to me. I will conclude only with the reasons in which it is said that such a law does not so far and that this law, however, segmentes the elements of the agri-food chain and does not become clear its scope in its entirety as a continuous process. That is, we are saying that so far there have been problems in the agri-food chain, and with this law these problems will be solved. I very much hope that the sector of pig farming through this law, if it is adopted, will again be a leader, but I doubt its benefits. We will not support this bill from our parliamentary group. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u14	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote the Agricultural Chain Management Bill, No 002-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 February 2020. Vote 149 MPs: 102, against 41, abstention 6. The bill was passed in the first vote. You're welcome, Mr. Affordable.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u15	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, I propose to extend the time between first and second reading of the Agricultural Chain Management Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u16	I put to the vote Mr. Abase's proposal for an extension. They voted 135 MPs: 131, against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Moving on to point two for today: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE HAZAART LAW. Mrs. Stoyanova will introduce us to the Second Reading Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u17	Report on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Gambling Act, No 054-01-4, submitted by the National Representative Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs on 16 January 2020 and adopted on the first vote on 29 January 2020. The Law on Gambling is amended and supplemented by the Law on Gambling. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Proposal of the National Representative Yordan Apostolov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In A license to organise lottery games, with the exception of raffle, bingo, keno and their varieties, may only be issued to the State.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u18	Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law and the new § 1 created by the Commission. They voted 125 MPs: for 93, against 1, abstention 31. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u19	According to § 1, there is a proposal of the MPs Valeri Simeonov and Christian Mitev. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Yordan Apostolov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 1, which shall become § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 is finally added to residential buildings in floor property mode without a decision of the General Assembly of Owners, taken in accordance with the Law on Floor Property Management. 2. In para. 2 the Union is deleted, and after the word 3. A new para is being created. 9 and 10 and para. 11: The distribution of tickets, tickets, coupons, coupons or other certification signs for participation in lottery games in objects or chains of objects (punts) not included in the certificate under art. 34 and not marked for the respective games. (10) It shall be prohibited to pay the winnings of lottery games outside objects or circuits of objects (punts) under para. 9 as well as out of banks. (11) The sale of tickets, tickets, coupons, coupons or other certification signs for participation in lottery games to 18-year-olds is prohibited.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u20	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 1, which shall become § 2 of the Commission Report. 135 MPs voted: 123, none, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u21	Proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal, which is: screated § 1a: supposed to be in the same condition as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way 1. In para. 1 words The direct advertising of gambling games, including the advertising of such games aimed at minors and minors, shall be replaced by the advertising of games in question. 2. Al. 6 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u22	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. They voted 149 MPs: 50, against 57, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u23	Under § 2 of the importer there is a proposal of the MP Yordan Apostolov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 2, which shall become § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14 the following 1. In para. 1 sentence 2 is created: the State enterprise carries out the activity of organizing lottery games with staff employed by it at own or rented points, which are separate and designated as lottery game points. 2. In para. The second sentence is finally added in line with the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u24	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 2, which shall become § 3 of the Commission Report. Vote 138 MPs: 96, none, abstention 42. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u25	Proposal of the National Representative Yordan Apostolov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15 the following 1. In para. 1 words.. moment lottery games and.. are deleted. 2. In para. 2 the words "Hazart games" are replaced by "Tombolite games."
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u26	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the creation of a new § 4 proposed and supported by the Commission. 135 MPs voted: 97, none, abstention 38. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u27	Proposal of the National Representative Yordan Apostolov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 34, para. 2, p. 4 the words "central post and posts" shall be replaced by "address" of the central point and the addresses of the posts. " The Commission proposes to reject § 3 as it is reflected in its systematic place in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3. The Commission proposes to reject § 4 as it is reflected in its systematic place in paragraphs 1 and 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u28	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the creation of a new § 5 and the rejection of § 3 and § 4 as they are reflected in their systematic place. They voted 132 MPs: 99, none, abstention 33. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u29	Proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal, namely: screated § 4a: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 85, para. 1, t. 2 after the word "advertising" a comma shall be placed and the text by the end of the sentence shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u30	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. 140 MPs voted: 35, against 64, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u31	Proposal of the National Representative Yordan Apostolov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 86, para. 1, t. 5 the amount of the fee due under art. 5 shall be added at the end. 30, para. 3 or 4 Proposal of the National Representative Yordan Apostolov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 7 and § 8: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 97 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: The punishment referred to in paragraph 2 shall be as follows: 1 shall also be imposed on a person who violates the prohibitions under Article 1. 9, para. 9 or 10............................................................................................ § 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1 after the
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u32	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the newly created paragraphs 6, 7 and 8. They voted 136 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 35. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u33	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs: 4b. In Additional Provisions, § 1 t. 23 is repealed. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u34	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. They voted 135 MPs: 33, against 63, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u35	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. Under § 5 of the importer there is a proposal of the National Representative Yordan Apostolov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 5, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... (1) From the day of the entry into force of this Act the licenses for organizing lottery games, except for the raffle, bingo, keno and their varieties issued to organizers other than the State-owned company 34 are disintegrating. (2) The profits from the games under para. 1 which is not paid until the entry into force of this law shall be paid in accordance with the established gaming conditions and rules for the respective game. (3) From the day of the entry into force of this Law the distribution and sale of tickets, tickets, coupons or other certification signs shall be suspended for participation in the games under para. 1 by organizers other than the state enterprise "Bulgarian Sports Totalizer." (4) Published for the games under para. 1 tickets, tickets, slips, coupons or other certification marks which are not sold until the entry into force of this law shall be destroyed by 31 December 2020 in accordance with Art. 50, para. 3. (5) The State Gambling Commission shall make public the circumstances under para. 1...............................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u36	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision supported by the Commission and the version of § 5, which shall become § 9 of the Commission Report. 140 MPs voted: 106, against 16, abstention 18. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u37	Proposal of the National Representative Yordan Apostolov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 10: ..................................................... (1) Within 6 months of the entry into force of this law, persons shall bring their activities into conformity with it. (2) The pending proceedings for the issue of licences, the making of changes to the issued licences, and the issue of certificates under art. 34 for the organisation of lottery games, with the exception of raffle, bingo, keno and their varieties, of organizers, other than the State-owned company Proposal of the National Representative Yordan Apostolov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 11: ..................................................... In the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control (prom., SG No. ...) In Annex 1 to art. 3, para. 1 a new item is added in Section XI.............................................................................................................. 3: "3." State-owned enterprise "Bulgarian Sports Totalizer" and parts thereof. Proposal of the National Representative Yordan Apostolov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 12: ................................................................................... Paragraph 6 shall enter into force from the day of the promulgation of the law in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u38	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the creation of a new § 10. They voted 134 MPs: 106, none, abstention 28. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the creation of a new § 11. They voted 136 MPs: 126, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the newly born § 12. They voted 132 MPs: 104 against 1, abstention 27. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, this was the end of the plenary programme for today. We continue with parliamentary control at 11:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u39	Honourable Members, we continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. Three new questions for the period from 31 January to 6 February 2020. A question was received from the MP Pavel Shopov to Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance, concerning our country's entry into the Eurozone. The plenary sitting should be answered on 14 February 2020. There has been a request from the National Representative Dora Yankova to Rosen Zhelyazkov, Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications about providing quality and affordable public travel services. The plenary sitting should be answered on 14 February 2020. There has been a question by the National Representative Dora Yankova to Kiril Ananiev, Minister of Health, about improving access to pharmacies and improving the quality of pharmaceutical care. The plenary sitting should be answered on 14 February 2020. Written responses were received from: - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Georgi Stoilov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on a question from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Dessislava Todorova; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on a question from the people's presentations Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Yordanov; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov on a question from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on a question from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Nikola Dinkov; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov on two questions from the MPs Krum Zarkov and Stefan Burgeev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on ten questions from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov. We continue with questions to Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva, Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister for Foreign Affairs. She will answer a question from the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Kristian Vigenin and Ivan Ibrishimov about the Border Control Post. You have the floor, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u40	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! First of all, I would like to welcome the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the activity he has carried out on the occasion of the recognition of the Bulgarian minority in Serbia, something which we hope will have a very positive effect and is a sip of hope for our ethnic compatriots. After that, however, there are many more problems. The problem we want to put is for these ethnic compatriots of ours from Bosilegrad and the region. There ethnic Bulgarians by official census are between 70 and 83%. The Bosilegrad municipality and the region are a backward part of Serbia, there are many problems that are demographic, economic, social and health problems. These people turn to us and find a solution to many of their problems in Bulgaria. The problem is that in order to get to Sofia for example, they have to pass through the border control post, which represents above 120 miles and it's about two and a half hours away. Especially in winter conditions is quite difficult to travel. At the same time, the distance between Bosilegrad, the village of Izvor and Treklyano is between five and ten kilometers. There in time there was a border checkpoint, and now it exists during the Council "Holy Spirit" I think it was in August when the generas on both sides of the border celebrate and they can cross. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The proposal of the people of Bosilegrad is that this point, which is in the area of Slavcheto, if I am not mistaken, will become permanent. Then they can find sustenance in Treklyano, in Kyustendil, in Bobov dol, and also in health care, as in the Bosilegrad municipality healthcare is not very high. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] My question is: what is your attitude?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Yordanov, I welcome the meaning of your question and everything you have said about the situation there, I support it and I agree. I have always been ready and ready in the future to participate in debates regarding the protection of the rights of Bulgarian communities abroad and what the Bulgarian state can do for them. This is also one of the priorities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but also of the other departments. You know it's not just one place to focus right now. Thank you for this question being given extra party support, because I think everyone's goal is the same. I would like to make one clarification before I answer your question specifically that we have always supported the construction of border crossing points, which will stimulate the economy, the tourist flow and the faster movement of people on both sides of the border, but making decisions is not only the competence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. As you know, there is an Interdepartmental Commission called the Border Control Board, which includes the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Finance and Other Structures, including, of course, our Ministry. On the subject. Now you have clarified that 120 km is the road from Bosilegrad to Sofia. At the same time, however, the road from Bosilegrad to Kyustendil at the existing and functioning border crossing point since 1968 is less than 50 km, from Bosilegrad to the border is less than 20 km. All the distance to Kyustendil is taken for about an hour during normal passport and customs inspection. The possible opening of the border crossings will not only shorten the road between Kyustendil and Bosilegrad as kilometers, but will extend it due to the heavy terrain and the existing worse infrastructure at the moment. Actually, the road to Kyustendil is two-band, in good condition. From 2017 on the initiative of Bulgaria there is also customs control on both sides, which allows the smooth operation of customs processing of goods on the ground and not as in the past with the goods and processing in Vranya or in Kyustendil. This is from 2017. However, the road to Sofia will also not be shortened by more than 10 For this reason, the journey of our compatriots from Serbia, from Bosilegrad will be most likely through the existing border crossings. the more comfortable and preferred relationship will be for them to Kyustendil, including Sofia. I mean, that's why the checkpoint doesn't have, as you said, but is revealed annually in connection with the August meeting. There is also no bilateral agreement with Serbia. In relation to everything said earlier, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not intend to propose. If any of the other competent structures believe that there is another analysis, of course, we are ready to discuss this in the Interdepartmental Council, but we do not believe that this will improve the relationship with Kyustendil and Sofia. On the contrary, the mountain terrain has worse infrastructure and de facto will be slower. Meanwhile, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, within its competence, will continue to support the construction of the two crossings for which we already have a signed agreement with Serbia. It's Salash. It's New Tile. It's Bankya. It's Petachintsi. I am taking this opportunity to inform you that at the meeting of the Interdepartmental Council of 16 July 2018, a decision has been made to work priorityly on the opening of the border crossings. At the same time, of course, it is no less important to build the other border crossings, which we already have an agreement about and which is at the initiative of the Bulgarian national minority in Serbia, in fact, they insist on it. I would like to thank you once again for your support and for the question. There are other problems, but it is very important and fast access from both sides of the border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u43	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Ibrishimov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, Madame Minister, colleagues! I would like to say a few more words to support the thesis of the need to build a checkpoint between the municipalities of Bosilegrad and Trekliano. The distance from Sofia to the border is 70 km to the border, which is between Bosilegrad and Treklyano. After that, no more than 10 km to Bosilegrad, making the total distance from the capital to Bosillegrad no more than 80 km. From Sofia the road through Dupnitsa and Kyustendil to Otomantsi is over 100 km, which makes at least 50 km shorter the distance. We also know that the distance between Bosilegrad and Treklyano is 20 km, but it is important to note that Serbia has built a brand new road to the border, and on our part, from Treklyano to the border there is nearly 10 km of asphalt, there is still about 500 m of dirt to be built in order to have an absolutely ready passage route. The international airports are important, but even more important is the flow of residents from the two municipalities. There are whole families there, there are twin families there. People to go from Treklyano to Bosilegrad travel for an hour and a half. Over 100 km pass through Dragovishtitsa and Otomantsi checkpoint. Also, building this point, we will definitely give an economic impetus to the region because you know that the municipality of Treklyano is the smallest municipality in Bulgaria and has a wonderful nature, but is cut off from the world, as they say, with this communication. Making this point and making this investment, we are definitely going to give the whole area an economic boost in terms of both economic development and tourism, because, as I said, there is a beautiful nature. And purely economically I, as a representative from this region, will tell you what the pain of people is: for example, simple, to charge his car with gasoline, must go to Kyustendil and travel 40 km. A gas station in this small area, first of all, will facilitate people, second of all, will create jobs.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Ibrishimov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u46	Not to mention the access of citizens of Bosilegrad to Bulgaria because it is easier for them to come shopping, to heal in Bulgaria, to study in Bulgaria than in Serbia. Their access to the central part of their homeland is more difficult. Not to mention the grocery stores that to go a resident of Trekliano to a grocery store, a large chain, also travels about 40 km. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I therefore thank you for your positive opinion. I hope you take these facts into account and give a really positive light to build this project.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u47	Thank you. A hole, my dear lady? Thank you. That concludes the questions to Mrs. Zaharieva. Thank you for your participation today, Mrs. Zaharieva. We continue with questions to Mrs. Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, who will answer a question from the National Representative Boryana Georgieva regarding a continuing speed limit for the movement of the highway. Here you go. You have the floor, Mrs. Georgieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u48	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Minister! I ask my question for the third time, you know. My question is about a continuing speed limit on the highway of Trakia. In response to my question on 10 December 2018, you informed us that, according to the possibilities of budget 2019 or with targeted funding, the Road Infrastructure Agency will take action to restore the pavement and operational qualities of the compromised section, specifying that, rather, when considering the funds for 2019, which will be available to the Road Infrastructure Agency, funds will be provided for in order to be able to repair this section. During your reply, it became clear that the temporary organisation of movement in this section was under the Order of 27 September 2018 of the Road Infrastructure Agency, which was referred to by the Directorate-General of the National Police, and the duration of this order was until 20 December 2018, after which, given that the problem has not been removed and that the department continues to be dangerous and threatening the lives of the drivers, it has had to be extended until 30 March 2019. This deadline has also expired, but until now, in the department, no repairs have started. As a result of continued inaction by the Ministry of Transport and API, fair criticism by citizens and businesses does not stop. Tol fees are a fact, and the route in this and other sections of the highways in the country are in a miserable state. The citizens of Bulgaria pay to have quality roads and highways, not for obvious stalling by the responsible institutions. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: what measures have been taken to solve this problem? Is it again foreseen that the order will be extended and this time for how long? Have they been provided for in the 2019 budget of the Road Infrastructure Agency for the repair of this section and to what extent? And when are the repairs scheduled to begin, what will they be, and how long before they are expected to be completed so that the route can function again as a highway?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u49	Thank you, dear Mrs. Georgieva. You have the floor for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u50	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Georgieva, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I can say that the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, together with the Road Infrastructure Agency, has taken the necessary steps to prepare this long-awaited repair of all of us. This problem is certainly not formally viewed, nor underestimated. It is undeniable that the section between Chirpan and Stara Zagora is a major road artery with intensive movement. The track has a total length of 40 km and construction is implemented in stages. The two subdivisions on which it is divided have been put into service respectively 2007 and 2011. In order to protect the life and health of travellers, as we all know, this speed limit has been introduced up to 90 km per hour and the duration of this order, which you have referred to, has been extended several times and is currently until 31 March 2020. In April of last year, the Road Infrastructure Agency was tasked by the Institute of Roads and Bridges to investigate the condition of the pavement and the adjacent facilities along the direct route of the motorway in the section from km 168+215 to km 208+181. During the investigation, the specialists have identified the following problems in the right canvas: impaired wearability, poor drainage, damage to the flooring, networked and single cracks, accelerated wear, tracks, subsidence, transverse waves, differences in the level of cover in individual sections. Based on the results of this investigation, the experts from the Institute of Roads and Bridges made recommendations for the necessary repair activities and type of wear cover on the pavement and provided output data to be used in the preparation of the Project for the repair of the highway. The project is under preparation and subsequent approval. A major problem for starting repairs in fact remains uncertain funding. The indicative value after the survey for the repair of the right-hand lane alone is approximately 60 million. lv. This amount includes the replacement of travel accessories, restrictive systems and others. The amount is not strong for the budget of the Agency "Travel Infrastructure" you know that revenue from the Tol system this year can be relied on at a limited amount, some of these revenues are already committed to the implementation of other priority, important and strategic projects in the country. I note that over the past five years, the section of "Trakiya" between Chirpan and Stara Zagora has been subject to constant monitoring and care, and a number of activities have been implemented under the Programme. The budget of the Agency for Road Infrastructure Repair Programmes for 2020 has not yet been established, but the amount of 60 million. BGN, which are only for the right lane, is more than half of the funds provided for current repair and maintenance for the entire Republican road network, which has a total length of 20 thousand. km. The problem of providing funding is still ahead of us and we are looking for opportunities to solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u51	Thank you, dear Minister. A line, Mrs. Georgieva? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, unfortunately, I heard nothing different as a response from the previous two times when I asked you this question, and this is in 2018 and in 2019. As far as I understand it, for two years on the question of repairing the road section of the highway In two years no funding can be provided, the next two are not known whether it will also be provided. We're talking about maybe about 10% of Trakia Motorway. If you can't handle it, let's collect texts, make the DMS-autoway Trakia, something's gonna happen! It's not normal for such a large section to be unable to function. In fact, let's remove from this section the sign from the highway and be like a secondary road or a long distance, because this is not normal. In fact, this section acts or is used as a means of collecting money and fines from citizens, from drivers, and they cannot agree with that. And you understand that very well. I think it's high time to make a decision, to have a solution to this problem with the highway. I'll keep asking you that question. You said the new deadline was 31 March 2020, I would gladly wait and ask you that question again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u53	Thank you, dear Mrs. Georgieva. We continue with the next question to Minister Avramova. He is from the National Representative Nikola Dinkov on the construction of a circular movement from and to the border checkpoint "Captain Petko Voyvoda" to the town of Svilengrad. You have the floor to ask the question, dear Mr. Dinkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u54	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! My question is about the construction of a circular movement from and to the border crossing of Captain Petko Voyvoda to the town of Svilengrad. Dear Minister, the movement from and to the border crossing is extremely busy all the hours of the day. The roads constructed from the highway to I-8 and from I-8 to the crossing point are crossed with road I-8 and the intersection is extremely conflicted from the point of view of road safety. The last five-six years have recorded over 31 traffic accidents, the intersection is not lit, the corresponding horizontal and vertical markings are not made well, and there is no colour alarm. Drivers of motor vehicles and road control authorities are adamant that a circular movement must be built there to ease traffic and limit traffic accidents. On this issue, the Svilengrad Municipal Council has repeatedly made its declarations to the state authorities, but there is no solution so far. My question to you is: when will a circular movement be built on this extremely conflicting intersection or other measures be taken to prevent road accidents? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u55	Thank you, dear Mr. Dinkov. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u56	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Dinkov! The provisions of Regulation No RD-02-20-2 of 28 August 2018 on road design have regulated the conditions under which road crossings and road nodes are determined. They depend entirely on the composition and intensity of the movement in all directions, as well as on the regulated and introduced speed of movement in the main direction. In the Ordinance of art. 28 to Art. 133 specify the specific conditions under which a circular intersection is constructed. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, together with the Road Infrastructure Agency, are actively working on road safety issues and, according to their competence, support initiatives related to ensuring the necessary conditions for safe travel. The Agency shall examine any alert providing data for violations in the organisation of movement or with a proposal to improve the road situation with a view to taking adequate action. On the basis of the provisions of art. 128 of the Road Design Ordinance, road safety experts at the Agency consider that the construction of a crossroads from and to the border crossings is acceptable to Svilengrad and would work effectively. However, prior to that, it is necessary to analyse traffic, traffic intensity, calculation of cross-border transmission capacity, traffic accidents data and the reasons for their occurrence. According to information from the Ministry of Interior, available in the Agency of Road Infrastructure, 11 accidents occurred during the period 2014 - 2018 at this intersection. The data for 2019 on the Republican Road Network are to be prepared by the competent authority and sent to the Agency accordingly. Based on an analysis of the situation in the section, the following actions could be taken by the Road Infrastructure Agency to secure the intersection, including the option to award the design and construction of a crossroads. In this regard the Road Infrastructure Agency is planning in March to organise a joint working meeting on the ground with representatives of the Regional Road Management Agency Haskovo, a representative of the State Agency. During the working meeting will be done and examined, and inspection of the section will be discussed measures for its additional restraint, including the discussion of the possibility of building a circular intersection. After a decision has been taken as a result of the working meeting, the responsibilities of the parties will be regulated and the follow-up will be planned. Activities concerning change of movement organisation will be coordinated with the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. As a short-term area restraint measure, renewal is planned under appropriate weather conditions at the horizontal marking this year. According to information from Regional Road Management, Haskovo, the construction of the circular intersection would cost between 500 and 600 thousand. BGN, in fact it depends on the work project to be prepared by it and the quantitative-value account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u57	Thank you, dear Minister. A line? Here you are, dear Mr. Dinkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u58	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! I think that the authorities dealing with road traffic have the idea that there is indeed an extremely heavy load of both cars and heavy goods vehicles. In addition, in the summer period, when the loading of the crossings of Captain Andreevo is extremely large, the so-called gastarbaiters, or those who work in Western Europe, many of them deviate and travel through the crossings of Captain Petko Voivoda, through Greece and towards Kishan in Turkey, and then it becomes even more frightening. The authorities of the Ministry of Interior I can definitely say that they are doing their job well enough, as there is a constant presence of their cars there, as they themselves know that this section is extremely difficult. Both horizontal and vertical are under any criticism, there is no colour signal, and there is no lighting at this intersection. It is not true the data that you quote about 11 car accidents I have taken from the Ministry of Interior, there are 31 registered accidents, and there are also extremely many unregistered ones, as those who have suffered understand each other there, on the spot. I am pleased with the answer in the part that in March there will be a working group that will deal with this issue. We have just recently created the State Agency "Safe of Road Traffic." This agency should deal with exactly those areas where there is a concentration of road accidents. I hope that the working group will come up with a certain solution on this issue, as well as the funds needed to build this circular movement, for which you have quoted that it is 500 BGN, not so much. So the Road Infrastructure Agency can implement this event in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u59	Thank you, dear Mr. Dinkov. A hole, Madam Secretary? I won't. Question from the MPs Dobrin Danev and Krum Zarkov concerning the necessity of rehabilitation on road II-52. You have the floor to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! My question is about the need to rehabilitate on route II-52. Dear Minister, there is a road in the territory of Ruse region from the second-class Republican road network II-52, Ruse He seems to have been forgotten by the Lord. Every morning the inhabitants of these settlements, due to their proximity to the town of Ruse, are tested on their way to their jobs while travelling, bypassing as in slalom holes and bumps along the way. We are witnessing that large cities are being allocated huge funds for their infrastructure. Even in the town of Ruse, the pavements on the main streets were paved. We are talking about demographic problems, about strategies to overcome them, and people, still living in these preserved Russian villages, do not have normal access to Ruse to exercise their right to work and to feel normal European citizens. And, notice, we're talking about a second-class Republican road network! Therefore, we, as MPs, are obliged to strive to show where our constituents' most pressing needs are, to think strategically, in perspective, to solve problems. We see there's money in the country. It is important for us to use them wisely and appropriately. In this regard, our question to you is: Is the second-class route II-52 rehabilitated by the road network Ruse
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u61	Thank you, dear Mr. Danev. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u62	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Danev, Dear Mr. Zarkov! The Republican Road II-52, Ruse "White" is a total length of 115 km, passing through the territory of the districts of Ruse, Veliko Tarnovo and Pleven. The section from the villages of Pirgovo and Bear to a settlement and a place for rest is 15 km from km 0 to km 15, and is in Ruse District. The road surface is indeed depreciated and there are network cracks, but in general there are no risk areas with dangerous damage and defects that are a prerequisite for road accidents. The road is maintained through the Program of Current Repair and Maintenance and is being patched up in 2019 by compromised areas of the pavement for which funds are provided. I assure you that the Agency will continue to take care of the second-rate path and this year, according to the funds provided for maintenance. With a view to providing a convenient transport link for residents of the settlements, the Road Infrastructure Agency will also consider the possibilities for project securing and including the Pirgovo section. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u63	Thank you, dear Minister. Dear Mr. Danev, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u64	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Madam Minister, I am partly satisfied with your answer, but last week we had asked a similar question for another time from the Republican road network, which together with this road appears to be bypass roads in the event of accidents on the road Ruse. We know as news from the Head of the Agency that there is an ad-contest for the design of the Ruse road. But we also know that funding is sought from the state budget and from a public-private partnership, which in time is not evident when it will be implemented. Exactly in this regard, and these two roads are very important as traveling, because in the event of a traffic accident and redirecting traffic of all the cars to the Danube Bridge along this road or on the previous road, there is a great deal of tension across the settlements. The infrastructure of these roads is completely different. In addition, on the part of banquets and cleaning, there is no lack of it. There was civil disobedience for nothing last year. This is why it is extremely urgent that the financial resource is not as large as for the construction of the Ruse road...................... to find it so that this road can be maintained and traffic can be carried out in normal mode. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u65	Thank you, dear Mr. Danev. A hole? You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u66	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Danev, I understand your concern for the roads in Ruse District. Just for your information, I will say that during this year the development of a technological project for the implementation of preventive repair 4 km from the same road II-52 from the intersection for the village of Krivina at km 30 to the border with the Regional Road Management of Veliko Tarnovo, at km 34. For information only in the past year for ongoing maintenance of the roads I, II and III in Ruse District 12 million were spent. 468 thousand. BGN 261, renovated 13 km from road II-54 with a total of 2 million. $250,000. BGN, road I-5, Ruse lv.; road I-5, Ruse........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... lv.; road II-52, Byala lv.; road III-2302, Red water 526 thousand. lv.; road III-2102 for 1 million 315 thousand. lv. I am reporting this information to highlight the concerns of the Road Infrastructure Agency and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for the Roads in Bulgaria. You understand that the needs are more than the opportunities in the budget for the year in question, so we are forced to prioritize. I thank you for asking, we will continue to look for options and funding opportunities for other road sections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u67	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question is from the MP Kolyo Milev on the construction of the drinking water treatment plant in Sliven. You have the floor, Mr. Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, my question is about the construction of the drinking water treatment plant in Sliven. In September 2008, a contract was signed between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Consortium Glavbolgarstroy. The construction of a water treatment plant in the town of Sliven began. The total value of the construction and installation works under the contract is 34 million. Two hundred and seventy-seven thousand. BGN, as at 8 September 2009, notice, the value of the completed and paid works is over 30 million. lv. Shortly after that, during the first government with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, the site was stopped and frozen. Since then, several attempts have been made by the Municipality of Sliven to restore the project, while at the same time, including today, more than a bit of money is being paid as security and conservation funds. I have asked this question before, but Dear Minister, the drinking water treatment plant is not only important, but a necessary and necessary project for the city of Sliven. Please answer the question: at what stage is the procedure for defrosting the site and renewing the construction for completion of the drinking water treatment plant of Sliven? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u69	Thank you, dear Mr. Milev. You have the floor for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Milev, the town of Sliven is supplied by a surface water supply dam. Waters are used for drinking water in the network after decontaminating. The available material and technical base ensures the reliable treatment of drinking water supplied in the dilution. It is characterised by indicators that are within the minimum required by the standard. A water treatment plant for drinking water for Sliven is designed to purify the water from the dam of Asenovets and according to the first work project of 1987 the station is measured at 1150 liters per second. As the population in the area declined, in 1998 there was another project developed with a reduced water volume of 850 litres per second, which significantly reduced both the necessary investments and the subsequent operating costs. The technological scheme of the drinking water treatment plant is convectional and is consistent with the physical and chemical performance of the drinking water from the water dam of Asenovetz and the regulatory requirements for quality performance of the purified water. In 2008, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works entered into a contract to complete the water treatment plant. Currently, the construction and installation works of the treatment plant are completed at 90%. The construction of a drinking water treatment plant was frozen in 2009 due to unbuilt plumbing connections from the drinking water treatment plant leading to the city and back. Not all plumbing connections have been built: a leading plumbing, a deviation from the water main from the water main from the water dam, a water main from the treatment plant to the city and the food mains for the high and middle area of Sliven. With the territory developed for the separate territory served by the Water and Water, Sliven, regionally before the study are defined the sites to be financed by the Operational Programme "Environment 2014" - 2020.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - Complete pressure water supply with a volume of 10 thousand. Cube. m and construction of a overflow system from the tank to an existing shaft; - construction of water supply from the distribution shaft to the drinking water treatment plant and from the drinking water treatment plant to a pressure water tank of 10 thousand. Cube. m; - from the pressure pool to the high zone tank of the town of Sliven; - from the pressure water tank to the middle zone of the town of Sliven; - reconstruction of water supply from the dam to the distribution shaft of the town of Sliven; - from a 2500-cub tank. m to an internal water supply network from the Mechkarevo system; - replacement of pipe connections in the dry chambers of the pressure water tank m high zone; - replacement of pump units; - reconstruction of major branches with proven frequent accidents. The number of residents using the service in Project 2023 is estimated to be 81 333. The project has submitted its project proposals in the Management and Monitoring Information System. The total value of the project is 133 million. 526 thousand. BGN 939. with VAT, the duration of the project is 51 months from the date of conclusion of the grant agreement. The facilities provided for construction include the plumbing connections: leading plumbing; deviations from the highway plumbing; plumbing from the water treatment plant to the city; food plumbing. In the second half of 2020, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works will launch a public procurement procedure in parallel with the construction of the divisions of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for a public procurement procedure for the construction, design and construction works for the completion of the water treatment plant of Sliven. The funds for the completion of the treatment plant amount to 4 million. Three hundred and fifty thousand. BGN, which are provided for in the budget program of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and at the same time the Ministry has concluded a contract of 2018, with which we ensure the security of the treatment plant so that our predictions are parallel to the construction of the water supply to have a finished treatment plant that can be put into operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u71	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, dear Mr. Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u72	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, what you said, everything is 100% true, only there is no movement on these issues there in the town of Sliven. Since 2008 the thesis of the Ministry of Regional Development has been that some money is buried there, a former minister has allowed himself to say it, which should not be given the necessary attention. And you should know that not only is Sliven supplied from the reservoir of Asenovets, you know it, it also supplies with the pumping water from the river Tunja, and this water must be mixed. If it is not mixed with the one from the dam, it is not enough, for which the latest data from the Regional Health Inspectorate indicate that iron is increased, clouding is also increased, in some areas we have cokes, and there the coke is also increased and there is a risk of contagious infections. There is even a suspicion of non-compliance with the schedule for pumping water, which is significantly cleaner than the dam asenovets and on the basis of it the purity of the water is acceptable. But I ask you to pay attention to the degree of movement of the activities carried out in the implementation of all these projects, both of the extractive and the discharge plumbing and of the tanks themselves, and the treatment plant, if it ends within this period when you say we will thank you. But it seems to me that the year has already begun, and the procedures are slowing down, and by New Year's Eve, we won't have a plant built unless it's constantly monitored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u73	Thank you, dear Mr. Milev. You have the floor, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Milev, I thank you for understanding that the treatment plant should start its work together with the water supply to be built. So the hard work by the Water and Water Department Sliven to carry out the procedures, selection of performers and start the real construction of the water supply and the commitment that the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works has to choose a contractor to complete the treatment plant so that the people in Sliven can drink cleaner water. We will follow with you the implementation of these projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u75	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question to Minister Avramova is from the National Representative Ivan Valkov concerning sites with contracts in the field of geodefense as follows: You have the floor, dear Mr. Valkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! My question to you relates to the geodefense activity of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. Every year funds are allocated to ensure the prevention activities related to the geodefense of our coast. For the period 2020, these are three main sites: "Strengthening landslide in the district of Sarafovo" (St. III.2), municipality of Bourgas; "Town of Tsarevo" (Town of Tsarevo) building a landslide in the north coast and launching of the SRS in the area of the coastal beach strip of the town of Ahtopol, municipality of Tsarevo. My question to you is: at what stage are these sites and when will real construction and repair activities start?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u77	Thank you, dear Mr. Valkov. You have the floor for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Valkov, within the framework of the Budget Programme 4: The construction of the territory, public works, geodefense, water supply and sewerage of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works is implemented geo-protective measures and activities to curb landslides, abrasive processes along the Black Sea coast and erosion processes along the Danube coast. The activities are related to the implementation of investment projects for geodefense, providing for strengthening, drainage and brig defence facilities. The objects subject to your question: "Strengthening the landslide in the district of Sarafovo "St. III.2, Burgas Municipality; "Town of Tsarevo " shall strengthen the landslide north coast " and "Bregification in the area of the coastal beach strip of the town of Ahtopol, Tsarevo Municipality are included in the investment programme of the Ministry for 2020. The first site: the ground slide in the district of Sarafovo is worth 41 million. 459 thousand. BGN 567. The site is a stage of an accepted shore support scheme and a continuation of an emergency implemented in 2001 in the Sarafovo area fortification and coastal support facilities. The site provides for construction of a longitudinal briquette, anti-abracial facility or the so-called dam, with a length of 1430 m, construction of fortification and drainage facilities to strengthen the Sarafovo landslide with an area of 745 acres. It is divided into the following sub-stages: - a coast-supporting dam with length, as I said, 1430 meters and is a fully constructed facility. It is due to be put into service in 2020; - for sub-stage: "Strengthening landslide," "Sarafovo" district "St. III-2.2" is expected in 2020 for completion of the strengthening and drainage activities, implementation of a green-zone parking project. The second site of the town of Tsarevo is worth 1 million. 559 thousand. lv. The beach section of about 500 m long is included in the scope of the site, it is planned to complete a shore support dam with a length of 491 m, build a spout 35 m, and strengthen a landslide. The construction of the site will restore the damaged territory of the sea coast, will protect the settlement and infrastructure from intensive landslide processes. Contracts for the implementation of engineering and the assessment of the compliance of the investment project with the basic requirements for construction and construction supervision are concluded. A complex investment initiative project, including updating of the Investment project and amending the detailed development plan for the planned construction of coastal and coastal facilities, has been launched. The deadline for the presentation of the Project and the corrected PUP is 19 April 2020. After the presentation of the Project, the complex report is to be prepared, the approval of the amendment of a detailed planning plan and the launch of the real construction and assembly works of the site, which, as I said, has been provided in 2020. The third site is worth 1 million in the area of the coastal beach of the town of Ahtopol. Five hundred thousand. lv. The area is characterized by active abrasive processes and the site is a cross-shore protection facility with a length of 200 m, transport access with a length of 246 m and a control system. An investment project has been drawn up for which a project conformity assessment report with the essential requirements for construction works has been drawn up, a detailed parcel plan for the facilities envisaged for construction has been approved, contracts for construction and copyright supervision have been concluded. Due to a problem encountered, part of the intended transport access for the implementation of the site falls into dunes established after an inspection by the Regional Inspectorate for Environment and Water in 2019, the procedures for the implementation of the construction works themselves have not been started. Actions have been taken to establish the actual state of play with specialists from BAS, RIEW, the Cadastre Agency. After clarification of the condition of the site the necessary actions will be taken to implement it, including the conduct of a procedure under the Public Procurement Act for executive construction works. Following an on-the-spot examination and expert judgement, a change of the specialized card or a change of the detailed design plan may be necessary. By building the reinforcement and drainage facilities of the above-mentioned sites, they will protect against destruction of the coastal and beach strip of the Republic of Bulgaria and the technical infrastructure in the affected areas, as well as guarantee the security of the population in those territories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u79	Thank you, dear Minister. A line, dear Mr. Valkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u80	Dear Minister, I would like to thank you first for the information you have given about the extent at which these sites are located and to tell you that we will continue to monitor their implementation and the process of the implementation of these sites. I would like to highlight two important things: the implementation and realization of sites very much depends on the Black Sea Coast Act, as during the summer period a large part of these construction and repair activities are banned and create problems for the population. You have also mentioned specialized maps, which in many places have not been declared or create a serious problem for the realization of these sites, and this is not one or two years old, but it is from one period of time, which is more than 15 years old, and are constantly being processed. We need to build a mechanism with which we have a lasting solution and make it clear which lands are dunes, which are suitable for roads, which are for beaches and so on. This thing creates a problem and an object that can be realized within a few months or a maximum of a year, several years is standing as a transitional object, even decades already. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u81	Thank you, dear Mr. Valkov. This was the last question to Minister Avramova. Thank you for participating in parliamentary control today. We continue with three questions to Mr. Mladen Marinov, Minister of Interior. The first one is from the MP Vasil Antonov on waste disposal in Pleven, imported from Italy. You have the floor, dear Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u82	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Minister Marinov! At the end of last year, an Italian journalist leaked information and made a major revelation that there was a mafia structure that deposited, collected hazardous waste, created fake documents and transported them towards Bulgaria. Probably for this reason, in the first days of 2020, the judicial and investigative bodies informed about the legal actions taken in relation to 9000 tonnes of waste imported from Italy and opened at a depot in Pleven. They announced that the waste has been imported for one year and until now no action has been taken on their processing. Eventually, after asking my question, it turns out that this waste is in storage in a bankrupt company, where there is no electricity and water and there is an appointed trade union, with broken packaging and a huge part of it has not been processed and there is no action on it. In this regard, I ask you to reply: When and how did you receive information about the illegal imports and storage of waste; what are the results of the joint inspection of the prosecution and the authorities of the Ministry of Interior in the case; are the hazardous elements and materials contained in these waste stored at the site in Pleven Industrial Zone; are there violations of the waste management and storage order found and, if any, which are the guilty institutions and the guilty officials? Thank you. Minister, I'm waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u83	You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u84	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Antonov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly. I would like to assure you that, in the implementation of the respective orders of the Prime Minister and the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria and within the framework of their legal powers, the Ministry of Interior shall take all necessary measures to counter illegal trafficking and storage of waste in the country. Organisation and coordination between all national institutions concerned with the problem has been established. At the same time, the Ministry of Interior established and maintained a constant exchange of information with the competent partner services in Italy in connection with waste trafficking. In this sense, I expect quick and effective results from the work on crossing the illegal trafficking and storage of waste. As regards the specific case in your question, I can provide you with the following information. A check was carried out by the competent authorities of the Ministry of Interior in cooperation with the Regional Environmental Inspection and Waters of Pleven in connection with the signal for an unauthorised site for storage and treatment of waste in the Industrial Zone of the city of Pleven on 19 December 2019. On 30 December 2019, a new inspection was carried out, which further included the Regional Security Directorate and the Prosecutors of the District and District Prosecution in Pleven. The appropriate measures have also been taken to ensure the lives and health of the inhabitants of Pleven, although so far there is no evidence of danger to people. As a result of adequate actions and according to art. 353b of the Criminal Code, pre-trial proceedings were initiated according to the description of the District Prosecutor's Office. A view of the site was carried out during the production, samples of the balled waste were taken, an examination was carried out by an expert of the machines located in the premises, video and photo taken of all premises and balled waste. The investigation has also taken immediate action to identify the guilty officials. At the moment, I could not provide any other information, since according to 198, para. 1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the materials of the investigation cannot be disclosed without the permission of the prosecutor, and in this case we do not have one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u85	Thank you, dear Minister. The line, Mr. Antonov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! The question is of extreme complexity.. for this we are aware, and on the other hand, the answer... is so subservient, does not satisfy. Why? For at least three reasons. Firstly, the issue is continued and it turns out that this site where the waste is stored has no owner to date. There is no certainty whether the waste is in the form in which it can be processed, or whether it is in accordance with the The second point is that this case is not a single case, it is not only for Pleven, it is not a single case for the state. After the introduction of my question followed and several similar sites were discovered.... dozens of them, in other settlements and in many places where it is not typical to be stored. At the port of Varna, we saw similar waste where their owner cannot be found. The type in which they are stored is also similar to those in Pleven and does not meet the conditions It is clear that hard work is to be done, but society expects clear and concrete answers. It is clear that the Ministry of Environment and Water with all the institutions has not done its job with the presence of such waste and that it continues to poison the Bulgarian society with the burning of many of them or with the storage of them in the wrong way. The expectations are to fully solve these cases and therefore the guilty persons to enter where they should, because there have long been 300 detainees in Italy and a large number of them have already been convicted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u87	Thank you, dear Mr. Antonov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u88	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Antonov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly. I just want to make it clear that the Ministry of Internal Affairs on these signals. As I explained, on 19 December it was the first check in Pleven before the submission of your question, but this is not so important, but that such an inspection was carried out quickly and adequately. The information we have in pre-trial proceedings gives a lot of answers, but, again, following the law, I can't introduce them to you. I hope, in a quick order, colleagues will bring guilty persons before the law. With regard to the actions on the territory of the whole country, as it was known, at the end of last week we already have returned containers which, under the international law and the laws of the Republic of Bulgaria, when these waste is not used within one year and according to their intended purpose, they are returned to the Sender Party. This is already a fact, and we continue to work together with the Italian authorities in relation to international traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u89	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the second question by the National Representative Hasan Ademov on the measures taken by the office entrusted to you in connection with an assault on the official Here you are, Mr. Ademov, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u90	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! The reason for my question is an extremely unpleasant incident which took place on 16 January in front of the town hall of the village of Stojeer, Dobrich municipality. According to the last census of 2015, about 1,500 inhabitants of different ethnic and religious backgrounds live in this settlement, and never before has there been opposition on ethnic and religious grounds. On the present date, a well-known, wealthy, local farmer, a tenant in this settlement, according to the information of the mayor of the village Ilko Mitkov attacks him initially verbally with threats, ethnic insults and threats of the kind: a person of Roma ethnic origin cannot be mayor of this settlement; I will do everything I can to move the Roma from this settlement. Something unacceptable under the conditions of democratic, European Bulgaria! Subsequently, however, unfortunately, the person concerned is physically attacking the mayor of the village. As a result of this attack, a blow to the mayor's face, the victim had a ruptured eardrum membrane and subsequently had an operating intervention. Unfortunately, in a relapse, this week the tenant in question again allows himself, luckily this time without physical strife, ethnic insults to the son of the mayor in question, who, by the way, is a municipal councillor in Dobrich municipality.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u91	The question, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u92	These unacceptable acts of violence create conditions for ethnic opposition. In this regard, my question is related to this: what measures does your office take in order to be able to cross these events which, by assessing everyone in the locality, are inadmissible?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u93	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u94	Mr. Ademov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On 16 January this year, around 9.00 p.m. at Single European Number 112 a signal was sent by the mayor of the village of Stojer "Dobrich Municipality" that after a verbal dispute he was struck in the area of the person by a resident of the same village. Operational and search activities were carried out immediately to identify both the factual situation and the person who struck and witnessed witnesses. In the case of the district prosecutor's office the town of Dobrich was formed pre-trial proceedings No 10 of 16 January 2020, according to the description of the Second Regional Administration of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior. 131, para. 1 of the Penal Code for the application of minor bodily injury to an official. The person who struck was found and detained with a warrant for police detention. The operational and search activities carried out and the investigative actions have shown that interpersonal conflict is involved. The work on pre-trial proceedings shall continue, with appropriate expertise appointed. In connection with a crime committed, the following preventive measures are taken and implemented to prevent and calm the artificially created tension in the settlement. A police warning protocol has been drawn up on the person who struck and is explained to him the responsibility that he could bear in the course of subsequent counter-action by him with regard to the ongoing pre-trial proceedings. The person who has suffered the blow has been told orally and has been made clear to him the responsibility he may have suffered in the course of subsequent counter-actions on his part as well. Talks were also held with individuals from the local population and with the mayor of the village and no ethnic tensions were found. The way to notify the police authorities if necessary is explained. The police presence is enhanced in the village of Stojeer and is visited daily by a team of the Second Regional Administration at the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior.. Dobrich, and mixed joint teams with the Regional Gendarmerian Administration. Varna, with a view to preventing and preventing further tensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u95	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Ademov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, thank you for this answer. We hope that, after the measures you have taken, conditions for the creation of ethnic tensions will not be allowed. This is extremely important for this populated area, where, I repeat, people of different ethnic and religious backgrounds have lived all these years, and so far there have been no manifestations of such opposition. However, the big question is: how effective are these measures? At the beginning of this week this same person allowed himself again a verbal attack on the son of the mayor of the village, and fortunately it did not lead to a physical quarrel. This means that sufficient effective measures should be taken to cut these manifestations of verbal and physical violence to the core. Of course, the mayor of the village will seek his rights in court, but the big question is to do everything possible to have effective measures and not repeat these acts of violence so that people can continue to live peacefully in the settlement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u97	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. We continue with the third question to Minister Marinov. Question from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova on the actions of the Ministry of Interior compared to the 73-year-old Stoyna Lungova Grandma Stojna. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u98	Dear Minister, on 29 January this year there is an anti-government protest in Sofia. It is attended by 73-year-old Mrs. Stoyna Langova. During the protest, questions were asked by journalists and she answered these questions. Her words became famous on the air, visited social networks and caused quite sharp reactions in Bulgarian society. To the question: why are you here and why are you protesting, the 73-year-old grandmother Stojna answers, Madam President, I will quote, please do not turn off my microphone, because the words are not at all face-to-face, so she says: "In 15 years there will be no Bulgarians in Bulgaria! Boyko in this way the Bulgarian people will destroy it. You sold the electricity, the water, the ground! Where are we gonna be? What are they thinking? Why does Boyko hate his people so much? Why don't they stop stealing? To give little to the people, not to go abroad to be servants. This is a shameless man! Me, the slave girl, take me to BGN 119. Is that what I deserve? And now I'm a rag, Boyko wipes his feet every day. Didn't this Borisov eat? Boyko, have you no shame? You, Boyko, wipe out the people! I don't have the money to buy bread! The old woman rinsed her sorrows in this interview, but she probably didn't expect what would happen to her the next day. Six policemen visit the Old People's House in the capital district of Zona B 5 Moreover, they make a warning protocol and make it sign that it will no longer participate in such demonstrations. Very worried, she again gives an interview and says: "I am outraged! Am I the threat to the country? I'm a 73-year-old woman with a bunch of diseases, and five or six policemen have spilled over to me and the interview goes on.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u99	The question, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u100	Mr. Minister, my question is: who decided, who ordered the police to go to the Old People's House and make warning protocols for this elderly, defenseless and lonely woman just because she allowed herself to participate in a demonstration, as the protocol says, and express her free will to criticize the government? Do you intend to do these people, not the police, because they were obeying orders and performing their duties, but those who sent them to harass the elderly woman to bear responsibility for it?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u102	Mrs. President, Mrs. Ninova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to assure you that during my entire professional career as a police officer, I have followed the principle that the employees of the Ministry of Interior are obliged to guarantee the right to protest any Bulgarian citizen who does so legally and under established public order. In this regard, an inspection has been ordered in due time by the Director of the Sofia Directorate of Internal Affairs in the 3rd Regional Administration of the Ministry of Interior, Sofia, because of a statement in a TV report about the violation of the rights of an elderly citizen after its participation in the protest. According to a report by the Director of the Sofia Directorate of Interior, the inspection carried out has clearly established that police officers have not taken any action towards the elderly citizen. She wasn't the subject of a police investigation either. During the verification the following facts are established: on 30 January 2020 a junior police inspector from the 3rd District Department of Sofia received a signal from the manager of the Old People's House in the residential complex "Zona B-5" bl. 4 for violation of the legal documents of the site. In this case, there is a violation of the ban order of the Governor of the Old People's House for a visit from outsiders because of a reported influenza epidemic. The home manager has requested assistance from police officers for three unknown persons, a woman and two men, but I will not disclose their data, as I do not have the right to enter the already mentioned elderly citizen. The same people initially refused to provide their identity documents by being rude, both to police officers and to officials from the Old People's House. After having a conversation with the police inspector, two of the persons of the woman and one of the men have submitted identification documents. The other man categorically refused to cooperate with the police, who showed his identity card with impaired integrity, but quickly took it away without allowing police officers to take his identity. The same guy tried to leave the room, rudely pushing the employees. As a result, a patrol from the 3rd District Management Sofia was called on site. The officers of the patrol group have drawn up an act of the citizen in question because of a violation of the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents. The relevant report notes from police officers, additional information from officials at the House, as well as representatives of a foundation working on the ground, have been made available on the case. A written report of the elderly woman you are quoting has also been attached to the verification materials. In it, she claims that police officers were called by the Governor of the House, as the three persons who visited her refused to leave. Again, according to her, the same people insulted and threatened the authorities of law enforcement. In the written report, the elderly woman also claims that she was not disturbed by the employees of the Ministry of Interior in connection with her participation in any events. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u103	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Ninova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u104	Mr. Minister, from the information you provide, things are going to get even more disturbing because you just said that journalists are responsible for the situation, not the Ministry of Interior, which obviously put pressure on the elderly woman. I was going to talk about the freedom of the citizens' initiative, about the freedom of expression of this woman and of every Bulgarian who has a different opinion, but I should also add that at the moment you attacked journalists because they sought information and interviewed her. The second very disturbing is what she did to you as a statement that she was not harassed and was not intimidated. I assume that it was done out of fear, because see what she said in the second interview, quite freely: I think the headmistress of the House called them to tell Grandma Stojna. I am worried that it is possible to be expelled from the Old People's House, in which I am accommodated because of my civic position. I put this issue as a concrete fact, as a specific event from which I would like to bring out the great.. you are using the Ministry of Interior and the state institutions to sow fear, to reprisal against people who criticize the authorities. This is the big question of government and statehood in Bulgaria. Two weeks ago you were gassing them with tear gas, now you're harassing the old 73-year-old woman. Of course, under fear and threats, she'll say anything. Right now, we understand that there are a thousand protesters out there...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u105	It's not a thousand.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u106	...are you going to film them too, inoculate, visit and write warning protocols to no longer participate in protests? Yes, Grandma Stojna is one and became a symbol of the protest against the government, but like her, thousands of people think... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u107	Time, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u108	...and with the repressive machine of the Ministry of Interior and the state you can't stop them! [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u109	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u110	Mrs. President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Ninova, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! With all due respect, I think an elderly woman is being used in this case for political purposes. I'm convinced of what I'm saying, because I only presented facts, I didn't attack journalists, I didn't contradict claims by journalists, and I wouldn't do that. Journalists are free to export the information they receive to society. I, as a longtime employee of the Ministry of Interior, always step on facts. The fact is, police officers have been called by the home manager. The fact is, from the information they know that it is the elderly who are placed there that they for one reason or another may be the subject of a crime. The fact is that there are persons inside who have entered despite the established internal order. It's a duty of police officers to respond immediately. That's what they did. Again: the data of the persons who have been inside, I cannot report it, but you can do a check. I suppose you know who they are, because you obviously have information, but this is not a process of verification. The actions of police officers were directed solely at the violations of these three persons. I wouldn't imagine that they could force and wouldn't do it, and they wouldn't have to force an old woman to write anything, because they were objectively called there by the home manager. I think any policeman would react the same way when a manager of an elderly home requests their cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u111	Thank you, dear Minister. [[General applause from GERB.]] We should thank Interior Minister Mladen Marinov for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We move on to questions to the Minister of Culture Boyl Banov. The first question is from the MP Pavel Shopov on the creation of a museum of the great Bulgarian sculptor Andrey Nikolov. Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u112	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! You all know that in each person's life there are periods and I once, in young years, was very interested in painting, respectively sculpture, I read the history of the world, of course, both the Bulgarian and the sculpture and the painting. I was fascinated by one of our Bulgarian artists, Andrei Nikolov, who then made films, wrote books and everywhere was spoken of as the intern of Rodin himself. His fellow students are other great names from the European and world sculpture, which I do not want to pronounce, to quote. What was important to me at the time was, and I had the image of Andrei Nikolov in a black suit with a large white beard, just a patriarch. This is what happened in the years, in the decades, I was a MP, it must have been in the 40th National Assembly, when I heard about the efforts of the then Minister of Culture Mr. Vejdi Rashidov, to make out of the house that Andrei Nikolov left with a will, with...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u113	The question, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u114	My question is: when, after all these years, do I think in the early '60s or in the late '50s, this artist of ours died, his house would become his museum? That's my question. I asked you that almost a year ago. Then the answer was a little vague, vague. Do you have anything new to say in this regard? Is the theme moving forward and where are we on the issue of turning Andrei Nikolov's house into a museum of his work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u115	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u116	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Shopov, regarding your question, I inform you of the following. In 1974, the residential building where Andrei Nikolov lived and worked was alienated, not donated, but alienated in favor of the National Art Gallery. In 1976, the son of a sculpture donated to the National Art Gallery the unaltered part of his father's estate. In 1999, the building was granted the status of a historical cultural monument of national importance. In 2000, the district administration of Sofia issued an act on the property as public state property and since April 2000 the Ministry of Culture has granted management rights. In 2001, part of the property.. the entire floor, as well as 12/14 parts of the large studio of the great sculptor, are reputable. According to the 2012 Public State Property Act, the State is the owner of 2/3 of the perfect part of the yard and 2/14 ideal parts of a private site == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man By order of the Minister of Culture from 2015 the state part of the property was granted free of charge for management of the National Gallery. The remaining 12/14 ideal parts of a self-contained site are owned by the successors of Ivo Tashkov. At the request of the heirs in 2016 before the district governor of Sofia was formed a file for the termination of ownership for the state by buying the owned by the state 2/14 ideal parts of a self-contained premises.. Hall for performances and debates, or replacing their 12/14 ideal parts against an object on the second floor with an area of 224 sq. m. At the request made in the light of the provisions laid down in art. 7, para. 1 of the State Property Act prohibits the carrying out of actuarial transactions in public property, and on the basis of the opinion of January 2017 of the Director of the National Gallery, the Ministry of Culture in February 2017 takes the view that there are no legal prerequisites for termination of the property in the ways proposed by the co-owners. The collection of the National Gallery contains 59 works by Andrey Nikolov of marble and bronze and about 100 plaster originals and casting molds. In June 2018, the National Gallery expressed its opinion in support of the idea of creating a permanent exhibition of works of the great Bulgarian sculptor in the house, in case the conditions under art are met. 25, para. 2, p. 2 and 3 of the Cultural Heritage Act, under which a museum is created in the presence of a building fund providing conditions for the preservation and presentation of movable cultural values. In this respect, the consent of individuals to purchase from the State of their own 12/14 ideal parts of a private site is necessary for performances and debates, and a large studio. Until now, unfortunately, on the part of the owners who are reputable, such consent has not been expressed. The current situation regarding ownership of the property makes it difficult to create a house museum "Andrey Nikolov." The National Gallery plans and works, for these reasons, for creating a temporary exhibition of his works in the part of the building, which is state owned and prepares the filming of 3D video dedicated to the life and creativity of Andrey Nikolov, which will be broadcast in the context of his studio. The estimated time for the creation of the film itself, based on archive documents, originals and preparatory sketches of Andrey Nikolov from the gallery collection, is 9 months. Otherwise, the site itself is being developed, but we cannot call it a museum due to the circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u117	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mr. Shopov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u118	Thank you, Minister, for the details. For the purely legal aspect of property matters, I will best understand as a lawyer and as a person who has spent his entire life dealing with property law, what are the problems. But you yourself said about this part of the house, which is state property, it is about it and there is the evil day, there is the battle and that is the problem. You know better than that. Because there are two sides to the question. First of all, to finally be taken out of the house these people, you didn't mention anything about them, with which by Minister Moskova was made one.. I don't know what to call it, I won't qualify it, it's just an unheard contract for ten years. There is nothing to lie to each other, nothing to be fooled about. The reason are precisely those people who, supposedly against making repairs in the house, had rights, though formal, until three years ago, until 2018. When I asked you the question a year ago, I always thought that in this one year, first action would be taken on their exit from the house, which clearly proved to be a very big problem. I don't know what powers they represent, what is the power of these people standing there?! Yesterday, there were some messages that finally happened. Not until yesterday! I am also grateful that perhaps both my question and the actions that you have done have contributed at last to this hearing feat that has taken place after all these years. Mr. Minister, we are talking about these two moments: first, these people are to be taken out. And if that happened, I thought in your answer you would tell me that this actually happened yesterday. I don't know if you know this. There's some information, it's off the record. The second question, if this has already happened, the other task, which is about to become the state part, because the property of individuals is only the top floor, it is restitutional, I have met well, which is perhaps the easier, and perhaps the harder side. Andrej Nikolov's works have many. They are deposited where they need to be safely in safe hands. Let's not ask this question for the third time, but let's congratulate each other soon. This depends on your efforts, at last with a museum of this patriarch of Bulgarian art, to which I personally, as I told you, have had a very young feeling, an extraordinary sentiment and some particular worship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u119	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u120	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Shopov, a contract has far from been concluded only by Emma Moskova as a minister, other ministers have concluded it, but this is a separate issue. The museum house is again in possession of the National Gallery. Practically a few months ago, and already theoretically everything from last month. Not since yesterday. Maybe some information came out yesterday. In this sense, I also said in my initial report the Gallery is developing a very active version. We cannot call it a museum because of the specifics of how a museum is structured under the Law, but an exhibition, temporary exposition, there are ways in the law, so it will be created within our state part, in fact a museum of Andrei Nikolov will be created. This is clearly the opinion of the Director of the National Gallery. That's where you'll be working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u121	Thank you, dear Minister. There is a question from the MPs Boryana Georgieva and Krastina Taskova about the funds for the renovation of the house museum "Ivan Vazov" in Sopot. Here you go, Mrs. Georgieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u122	Thank you, Madam President. I would like, before I ask my question, to give a humble gift to the Minister of Culture. [[Gives him a glass.]] The Minister of Culture, I think, is aware of what this gift symbolizes in order to bring more clarity to other colleagues and citizens, we have invited him to debate in the Committee on Culture and Media. I hope he comes so that we can make it clear. I am continuing with the question that I have made about the funds for renovating the house museum in Sopot. Dear Mr. Minister, the House Museum "Ivan Vazov" in Sopot is the home of the Bulgarian writer and poet Ivan Vazov. On June 6, 1935, the house was inaugurated as a museum. In 1964 it was declared a monument of culture of national importance. Along with the houses in Berkovitsa and in Sofia, it is among the three houses museums to which Vazov's life is related. This place is sacred for every patriot, temple of Bulgarianity, place of worship before the immortal work of the patriarch of Bulgarian literature. We Bulgarians have a great history. We are obliged to know it well, we must honor it and keep the memory of our heroes. To date, the house needs renovations. In this regard, and on the occasion of the 170th anniversary of Ivan Vazov's birth, it is also our question to you: has the Ministry of Culture provided funds for the renovation of the house, in what size and in what way will it be used?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u123	Thank you, dear Mrs. Georgieva. Mr. Minister, please answer the question, and I hope you can explain this glass to us because we've been puzzled.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u124	I don't know if the format allows me to explain right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u125	Maybe later.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u126	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, Dear Mrs. Georgieva, Dear Mrs. Taskova! In relation to your question, I inform you of the following. According to a reference in the national documentary archive of the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage, the house museum "Ivan Vazov" in Sopot has the status of single architectural and construction real estate cultural value of national importance and is public municipal property. As an object with the status of cultural value the house museum Ivan Vazov in Sopot city is eligible for application for targeted financial support for specialized conservation-restaurant activities for real cultural values under Program 1 of the Ministry of Culture. By letter of the Ministry of Culture, the director of the museum was informed about the possibility of funding the site under the Programme. Application under the Programme shall be made by submitting a reasoned request for financial support under the Rules on the selection of sites and setting out activities for the provision of targeted financial support in the area of conservation and restoration of real cultural values. The same are published and available on the website of the Ministry of Culture. For the current 2020 period, the period for submission of applications shall be from 17 February to 17 March in accordance with art. 3, para. Two of the rules. When applying for conservation-restation activities, there is a need to be consistent under the Cultural Heritage Act design documentation and corresponding quantitative-value accounts. In the case of a requested request from the owner of the museum due to its significance as a historical and architectural building site of real estate cultural heritage the house museum
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u127	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Georgieva, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u128	Dear Minister, I hope I have understood correctly your answer that the house will be a priority if possible when applying for renovation funds. But nevertheless, I did not understand, or rather I did not hear, the answer to contain information on what funds were envisaged, how much and possibly what they would be used for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u129	Thank you, dear Mrs. Georgieva. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u130	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Georgieva, one option for you to understand is to read you the answer again, but I will be shorter, it is pointless to repeat the same thing. Again, the owner of the municipality in this case must submit the project, in which there are quantitative-value accounts. What do you need it for? I'll explain. For example: wants to make a roof how many tiles, how many supports below, how to do this to preserve the essence. He wants to make the windows. The windows must be the same, to meet the cultural heritage, to be wooden. It wants to paint the same materials. And a number of other things I don't want to take up any more time. By putting this request to us, we will react immediately in view of the importance of the site and will support all such activities. In this sense, I can't give you a preliminary sum because I don't know what we're going to be asked for and what it would be worth. But in view of, I repeat, the huge priority, not just because of the anniversary of our most distinguished writer, we will do whatever it takes to secure the necessary funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u131	Thank you, dear Minister. We thank Minister Banov for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to the issues of Desislava Taneva, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests. The first question is from the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and Svetla Bachvarova Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u132	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, the question with my colleague Ivan Ivanov to you is related to the condition of the dam. We are asking you for information about his condition due to the fact that the Dam is owned by irrigation systems. Water is used not only for drinking purposes, but also for RES and irrigation. During the months of December. January came out information quite controversial about the state of the dam, including the representatives of the branch that serves the dam. This information is contradictory because the assessments are different. The focus is primarily on drinking water and the possibility of providing water for drinking in the coming months, but still, when using the dam, it is important for other needs to look for balances and see in 2020 how other policies regarding the region will be implemented as well. Specifically, my colleague and I are interested in: what will be the irrigation policy? Both Targovishka District and Shumen District are one of the areas where there are irrigation fields, where there is developed orchards, vegetable production. I have witnessed problems in the supply of water for irrigation in previous years. Water for irrigation, the price of all these are problems that we are interested in. Therefore, aside from the balance that you will accordingly provide us as information, the question is: what is also foreseen for irrigation in these two areas for the purpose of realization and the possibility to provide sufficient quantities for the current production activity in this region? We are also worried about the fact that the Ecomenistery recommended that alternative sources be sought, given the crisis situation with the dam. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u133	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u134	Dear Chairman, dear Professor Bachvarova and Mr. Ivanov, MPs! For 21 complex and significant dams, public state property, granted management rights of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, including the Dam. Ticha "Ticha" dam provides water volumes for drinking and domestic water supply of the cities of Shumen, Veliki Preslav, Targovishte and several other settlements in the territory of Shumen region, as well as for irrigation, production and provision of minimally permissible flow in the river Golyamo Kamchia. As of 3 February this year, the available volume in the dam is 167,653 million. Cube. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Cube. M, the dead volume of the dam is 40 million. Cube. m. The reduced water volume of the dam is due to the lack of snowfalls, as well as the small amounts of precipitation in the entire water district. The monthly schedule of the Ministry of Environment and Waters for January 2020 provides for water quantities for drinking-bit supply. Cube. m, to ensure a minimum allowable flow in the Kamchia River Cube. m. The actual amounts of water used for January are: 2.9 million. Cube. m for drinking-bit water supply, 221 thousand. Cube. m to ensure minimum allowable flow in the Kamchia River. The MFW schedule for February 2020 provides for the following quantities of water: 3 million. Cube. m for drinking-bit water supply, 200 thousand. Cube. m to ensure minimum allowable flow in the Kamchia River. According to updated data of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology for the tributaries of complex and significant dams under Annex No 1 of the Water Act, the estimated annual flow of the dam is determined for the various collaterals as follows: - for an average year of guaranteeing 50% of the total amount of EUR 136,63 million. Cube. m; - for a medium-term dry year, 75% of the guarantee, 72.33 million. Cube. m; - for a very dry year Cube. m. Due to the permanent drought, the total influx into the dam last year was 32 million. Cube. m, which is close to the forecast inflow for a very dry year. The water supply from the dam for 2019 is: for the drinking-bit supply of more than 35 million. Cube. For irrigation, about 16 million. Cube. m. In 2019, no water masses for production were submitted from the dam. A small hydroelectric power plant has been processing drained water masses, defined by the monthly schedules from the MOEW for ecology. This is to ensure the minimum permissible flow in the Kamchia River. At the current volume of the dam, the drinking water from it can be provided for the next two years. The estimated cost of drinking water, ecology and irrigation is assumed that restrictions on water supply to secure the 2020 irrigation season will not be imposed. In the event of such a need, the Shoumen branch can provide an alternative water supply for irrigation from the reservoir of Shumen, parts of the irrigation system of Vinitsa, in the lands of the village of Dibic, the village of Radko Dimitrievo, the village of Marash suhmen, and the village of Kyulevcha. But that's an alternative. All the data I've given you at the moment tells us that after the tables needed for drinking-bit needs, the watering season is secure. And you're right, the Shumen branch has significantly increased irrigation areas, which is positive for the whole system. If 2573 decares were irrigated by the Shumen branch in 2019, 4150 were requested for 2020. All data suggests that there is a readiness and guaranteed provision of irrigation season 2020, such as "Irrigation systems" EAD does not provide for changes in the price levels or terms of the contract.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u135	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u136	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I have listened carefully to your answer and because I am very interested in this topic, because Shumen is one of the cities that is extremely affected by the condition of the dam and the condition of the discharge water supply, which you do not really care about, as you manage the dam until it is delivered through the water meter. But what you said is extremely disturbing that the forecasts are for a very dry year for the tributaries to the dam, which means that its volume will not increase significantly. My question in this line is, and I ask you to answer: who lied to us? The Minister of Regional Development or you were misled by the information they gave you? The Minister of Regional Development told the media after checking that drinking water in the dam will be available if it is not used for irrigation. In that case, who will be harmed? Those who will use the water for drinking?? The three cities, the two district centers, Veliki Preslav and the settlements or the farmers? Or is there some other alternative that we still don't know that will improve the condition? Only the other day there was a severe accident when tens of thousands of ccs of water from this dam poured out like this into the field without the need for irrigation. Accidents will be, I suppose, repeated until the plumbing is restored if it ever recovers. In this regard, I would like you to answer us: is your information incorrect that you have brought here, or that of the Minister of Regional Development, who said that the water would reach for drinking needs if it stopped for irrigation? [[Reply from Minister Desislava Taneva.]] . Yes, I have an accurate printout of Mrs Avramova's statement to the media. Either you don't talk to each other in the Council of Ministers, or you get information from somewhere else. In the end, I would like to ask you: are you even planning to transfer this dam to the Ministry of Regional Development because this is how we have a total exchange of responsibility? Once you are the owner, once the drinking water answers the Regional Ministry and eventually when accidents happen, when there are problems, there is no one to blame. So, answer me: do you intend to give this thing eventually to the Ministry so that a sanitary zone can be built and all procedures that are based on the law can happen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u137	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u138	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I strongly oppose such talk with general talk.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u139	It belongs to your colleagues at the MRB.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u140	The dam is managed by the operator "Irrigation systems" and the data I provided is official and measured. Don't talk to me like that! With all data only for what is used for drinking and irrigation and triple increase, is guaranteed by the dam by the operator who manages it, That's definite! And the figures, which are actually from what happened in 2019, are talking about this, and the plans that are submitted by the MOEW. The provision of water resources by the dam........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Divide use in 2019. And if you multiply it by two, there'll still be enough water resources for that. [[Relations from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u141	Thank you, dear Minister. And the last issue of parliamentary control today is a question by Svetla Bachvarova about the procedure for buying forests of individuals from state-owned enterprises. Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u142	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! This is not the first time I have raised the issue of the procedures and policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests regarding the purchase of forests by natural persons through the Fund of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, respectively, so that they can realise their investment intentions. In 2016, for the first time, a similar procedure was launched, ended in 2017. No one has yet at this stage answered, despite the questions asked, what is the economic efficiency of such Now there is a new procedure. The resource is nearly twice as much compared to the previous one. The media came up with information about the number of applications that are much more than the first procedure. The fact is, I couldn't find out how many hectares of forest it was because there wasn't one in the information. Again it is a procedure, it means to me that this is a type of project application, where we will choose which forests we will purchase accordingly. My question to you is, first of all, about this economic efficiency, if you have done, for purchases 2016 - 2017 because it has been several years anyway. How will the valuation of the properties that will accordingly be purchased and the order of their approval be realised, provided that at this time the information we have is that the applications are even more relative to the assigned resource at the beginning of the procedure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u143	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u144	I will try to answer the order of the questions asked. I guess I won't have enough time. Firstly, with regard to the 2020 procedure and the applications lodged, this was the first question. The application submitted by 15 January 2020, when the deadline for submission was 1722. The number of properties offered for purchase is 3117; the unused properties are 662, which did not meet the conditions of the procedure; the number of properties admitted and ranked at the first stage of the procedure are 2455 properties, of which with a maximum number of points are 767. The total area of the properties with maximum number of points is 3345,574 decare. For comparison, in 2016 a total of 1873 properties were submitted under the first procedure, with total admitted and ranked properties being 1301. Yes, there is indeed a significant increase in the current procedure, which started at the end of 2019 and ended as an application on 15 January 2020. What this measure of the State aims to answer the second question with regard to the economic effectiveness of this measure. It is for the State to perform the public functions, to satisfy the public interest above all else. In no case are we always looking for economic efficiency for spending from the state budget. It cannot be calculated either for social assistance or for the level of pensions, or also for this measure. Why? The aim of this measure, which is aimed at the owners of small plots of forest areas for which there is no market, is to satisfy the need, the need, the interest of these small owners to sell them for several reasons. The first and most painful, sensitive and public reason is the inability to protect them. The state through the Forest Executive Agency through state forest enterprises exists, has, works, is constantly being upgraded because of the various problems in the forest protection system. Small owners do not have this opportunity because the income that can carry a small plot of land up to 20 to 50 decares cannot cover the cost of security. What's going on? As a consequence, the analyses show it, the intensity of the illegal logging, the violations are precisely on forest areas which are privately fragmented property and are not in practice guarded. What does that lead to? Until the damage of public interest, because forests have primarily public functions, not some others. So I answer your question: yes, and such an analysis can be done. It can be done after quite long years according to the type of forest, according to its recovery, because some of these small properties, unfortunately, are very unregulated cut down after restoring them and they enter the business turnover. This is a very long process and it does not end with either or two parliamentary full mandates. On the third question, the procedure is implemented. First stage, consideration of applications received, valuation and ranking of properties, depending on three criteria announced. This trial is already closed, I said the results. The admitted properties are ranked in descending order, according to the number of points they have received on the three criteria to border on forest territory state ownership, to have protective and special functions, what is their area. The lists of admitted and ranked properties and undisclosed properties are announced on the official pages of state-owned enterprises. In the second stage, the classification of land properties in forest areas is carried out according to the criterion of the most profitable offer, comparing the price for a decare determined according to the assessment of a qualifying valuer compared to the price offered by the owner. First of all, the offer for sale is ranked, whereby the difference between the price of a decare from the valuation of an independent valuer and the value indicated by the owner is the highest positive number. For the ranked properties which have received the highest number of points after the first stage, the amount of the proposed prices, which are within the funds provided by state-owned enterprises for the purchase of forest areas Three hundred and fifty thousand. lv. for this procedure, an assessment is to be carried out in accordance with the Regulation on the assessment of land properties in forestry territories of eligible valuers registered under the Independent Evaluators Act. The valuations shall be carried out following a mandatory view of the land and this requirement shall be specified in the contract for the award of the valuation. Prior to acceptance of the assessments, the representative of the State enterprise or of the State forestry or hunting holding concerned shall carry out a field check of the properties classified at the first stage. The award and preparation of valuations by able valuers of the properties ranked at the first stage of the procedure, field view, classification and announcement of the results of the second stage of the procedure shall be carried out within 40 working days of the announcement of the results of the first stage and the entire procedure is expected to be completed in April 2020. The last step of the procedure is written notification and invitation of the owners of the ranked properties to conclude a sale deal. As of today, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry has started its annual information campaign for direct payments, which have been launched since 1 March, and the debate on the common agricultural policy has also been included in our campaign. In all areas where there is concentrated such property of forest territories of citizens, it is fragmented. The interest in these procedures is great and we foresee such a second and at the end of this year.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u145	Thank you, dear Minister. Given that it is a final question, I gave Mrs. Taneva the opportunity to develop her answer to the end. Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u146	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! What I've learned is that buying up territories from natural persons is socially necessary for many reasons. Why, then, do not you make sure that all forest arrays, which are private property, are bought out? Because with these criteria, the ranking, evaluation, compliance, subjective element, first, always exists. I am particularly sensitive on the subject of evaluation. I can't figure out how the previous procedure estimates differ so dramatically. The valuers are the same, they've been the same for years, they've had experience. How, for example, in the South Central Enterprise, the price of property for decare is BGN 1286 and in the Northeastern enterprise is BGN 272?! In all southern enterprises, the prices are extremely high in South and Central, South-West and South-East. There is some explanation, but to have a five-time difference in prices based on valuations, it seems to me that objectiveness should be addressed in these assessments and be clearly protected because there are always some such ideas that may suggest that they are not privileged in relation to the rest of the forest areas. So my question is: why are small owners not appreciated how much they are, what resources should be, and really solve this issue if it is really so important and important for the development of the forest sector and for the conservation of biodiversity? One more question relating to the 2016 procedure. If you are not ready to respond accordingly, but it is important for me to know it, one of the things that is necessary after the forests become the property of state enterprises, to have a forestry plan in which they should be included as conservation. As of 2018, they were not included in the forestry plans. I would like to ask you if you have any information about this: has it happened in 2019 " 2020"? Because the implementation of forestry activities must be carried out precisely on the basis of this plan in order to be able to be included in the common forestry activities that take place. I understand what you want to do, but I don't understand why we need to subject the small owners to such criteria and requirements as to be selective to this fund through the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u147	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u148	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Professor Bachvarova! The funds allocated to the purchase of small plots of forest areas owned by natural persons shall be made by means of investments accumulated from the business of the forestry undertakings themselves. They don't have budget funds. This is a process in which we are limited in the framework of the funds which state-owned forest enterprises themselves accumulate from their activities. They're not at the expense of the budget. Yes, in our political view, this process is important. Firstly, and especially on the occasion that it will give another degree of conservation of forest areas and, of course, will enter the overall economic turnover of forests. With regard to the issue concerned, everything cannot be done automatically. You know that there is a procedure for the preparation of such plans that are updated, which also include the relevant activities in terms of forest management. But with regard to protection and security as taken, this happens as soon as the procedure is completed. Secondly, in terms of grades. Surely they are different according to the species of the respective forest territory. I can't quote specific data. Perhaps those you say may be, but that in any procedure concerning government ownership, the principle is whatever the procedure is, it always steps on an independent valuer's assessment of the lists of a completely different law. It is not part of our specialized legislation. For each of these assessments, the person concerned shall bear the responsibility with the relevant licence and shall not make them only in those forest areas. This is in general order when it comes to government property management. As far as the resource is concerned, it's limited. There is no way without criteria to conduct this procedure. And since the smallest owners who really can't, in any way, have the resources to protect these forest territories, our criteria are directed at them with priority and that's normal. After this mandate, which decided, according to the political will, can continue or not continue this policy, but for me this is an extremely important policy, because it satisfies and demands, the wishes of a part of the society owners of forests that are small and they cannot care for them. Secondly, it helps us to care for these forest territories as well as we should.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-07.u149	Thank you, dear Minister. This was the last question and answer from Minister Taneva. Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests. Colleagues, thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control, and thank you to Minister Taneva. That's it. We're done for today. Regular plenary session, Wednesday 12 February 2020, at 9.00 p.m. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
