ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members. There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, I will present to your attention a Project for the National Assembly Work Programme for June 3, 2020. Today is the first Wednesday of the month and parliamentary groups are making proposals under art. 53, para. 8. First is the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Proposal of the Parliamentary Group of "United Patriarchs" "First Voting of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Political Parties." The proposal was withdrawn on 20 December 2019. There is no proposal from the parliamentary group of VOLIA. There is no proposal from the political party GERB's parliamentary group. From the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria and there is no proposal. This week's work programme is as follows: "1." Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act. Importers "Daniela Daritkova" and a group of MPs on 14 February 2020. Adopted in the first vote on 26 February 2020. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Technical Requirements for Products. The Council of Ministers received a first vote on 12 February 2020 on 10 December 2019. 3. Draft decision for privatization of a part of the property of Gorna Oryahovitsa "Gorna Oryahovitsa" Ltd. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2020 4. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act. Importers Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs on 29 May 2020 5. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 15 May 2020 6. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Institutions. Importer supposed the Council of Ministers on 8 January 2020. Adopted at first vote on 27 February 2020. Point 1 for Thursday, 4 June 2020 7. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Biodiversity Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2020 Point 2 for Thursday, 4 June 2020 8. Report on the Commission's activities for protection against discrimination in 2019. Importer "The Commission for Protection against Discrimination," 27 March 2020. 9. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on State Reserves and Wartime Stocks. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 21 May 2020 Point 1 for Friday, 5 June 2020 10. Parliamentary control. Please, voting mode. Voted 182 MPs: 131, none against, abstention 51. The motion is accepted. Bills and draft decisions entered into force from 27 May to 2 June 2020: A bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Offering of Securities. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, is the lead. Draft Bill for Supplement to the NHIF Budget Act for 2020. Importer "Georgy Yordanov" and group of MPs. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Health. A bill to supplement the Personal Data Protection Act. Importer "Alexander Siddy" and group of MPs. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order is headed by the Committee on Culture and Media, the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act. Importer.. People's representative Valentin Nikolov. It has been allocated to the Energy Commission and to the European Affairs and Control Committee of the European Funds. Report on the implementation of the Law on the Activity of Administrative Courts in 2019. Importer "The Supreme Judicial Council." It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Report on the implementation of the Law on the Activities of the Courts in 2019. Importer "The Supreme Judicial Council." It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Report on the activities of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council for 2019. Importer is the Supreme Judicial Council. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Annual Report on the Activities of the Commission for Protection of Competition for 2019. Importer "The Commission for Protection of Competition." Distributed to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Annual report on the activities of the Supreme Judicial Council for 2019 Importer "The Supreme Judicial Council." Distributed to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Report of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means for the activity carried out in 2019. Importer "The National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means." Distributed to the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. Annual Activity Report of the Financial Supervision Commission 2019, part of which is the Report on the implementation of the budget for the Financial Supervision Commission 2019. Distributed to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Report on the implementation of the Law on the Activity of the Prosecutor's Office and of the Investigative Authorities in 2019. Importer "The Supreme Judicial Council." It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Messages: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order, Security and Defence Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 18 in the Law on passage through and residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces by its command, he authorised the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of a non-military nature of a military transport plane IL-76 with its crew from the composition of the Air Force of Ukraine to transport medical property from the Socialist Republic of Vietnam to Romania. The permit is valid for transit through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria in Ukraine on flights via the Ukraine route. The notification was made on 28 May 2020, in total seven fields for the transport of medical property between 29 May and 27 June 2020. No 003-09-39 and granted to the Defence Committee. The National Assembly has received an Annual Report on the activities of the Monitoring Board under the Law on Persons with Disabilities for 2019. The report is sent for information on the basis of art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2 of the Law on People with Disabilities from the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report was sent to the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee and was available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. The National Assembly received a Report of the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 24 April 21 May 2020 and Protocol No 15 of a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund, held on 27 May 2020, at which the Report was reviewed and discussed. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report and the Protocol were sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. And the last message for today: material was received from the National Statistical Institute on the administrative and territorial division of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2019. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. As the proposal of the United Patriarchs under art. 53, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure have been withdrawn, We move to the first item of today's agenda: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION LAW. Mrs. Vassileva, come and introduce us to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u2	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! On 14 February 2020, submitted by the National Representative Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs, adopted at the first vote on 26 February 2020. The Law on the Protection of the Environment (prom., SG No. (see Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Under § 1, there is a proposal of the National Representative Alexander Matsurev by the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 4 shall be added at the end, with the exception of hazardous and non-hazardous waste disposal plants by incineration or co-incineration within the meaning of the Waste Management Act. (b) A new item shall be created. 5. It's five o'clock. investment proposals according to c. 10.1 of Annex No 1 covered by Regulation (EC) No 1069/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 October 2009 laying down health rules concerning animal by-products and derived products not intended for human consumption and repealing Regulation (EC) No) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009). 2. In para. 3 after the words. 1 "S 873" is added "S 5"
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u3	Statements, coworkers? I don't see any speeches. Let's move on to the vote. First, I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the Law and the version of § 1 of the Commission Report. Vote 159 MPs: 156, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u4	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Annex 1 to art. 92, p. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 9 after the word "destroying', the word "destroying' shall be added. 2. A t is created. 10.1: "10.1." Installations for the disposal or recovery of non-hazardous waste by incineration or co-incineration within the meaning of the Waste Management Act. 3. Previously on "T." 10 becomes t. 10.2 and in it the words "burning" or "burning" shall be deleted. 4. A t is created. 10.3: ..10.3. Installations for the disposal or recovery of hazardous and non-hazardous waste by incineration or co-incineration developed exclusively or primarily for the development and testing of new methods or products and which will not operate for more than two years. The Commission proposes to create a name "Transitional provision" with § 3: "Transitional provision' § 3. The procedures under Section III of Chapter VI shall be completed in the new order until the entry into force of this Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u5	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 2 and the creation of the name "Transition provision" by § 3 of the Commission Report. Vote 139 MPs: 137 against 1, abstention 1. The proposal is adopted, and with this the Law of the Second Voting. Moving on to point two: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS TO PRODUCTS. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 10 December 2019, adopted in the first vote on 12 February 2020. Mr. Kanev, would you like to introduce us to the Report of the Commission for Second Reading?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u6	Colleagues, first, admission to the hall on the grounds of art. 49 of our Rules of Procedure from the Ministry of Economy: Lilia Ivanova Deputy Minister, and Silvana Lyubenova Director of the Directorate; and from the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision: Petar Gornovski Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u7	Please vote on the procedure so made. They voted 137 MPs: for 137, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Mr. Kanev, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u8	The Act for amendment and supplement of the Law on Technical Requirements for Products. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11, para. 2 the word "Signature" is replaced by "captured" and a sentence is created second: "The verification of the accreditation certificate is carried out on a business road."
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u9	Statements? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law supported by the Commission and the version of § 1 of the Commission Report. Vote 134 MPs: 133, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u10	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 34a The following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In para. 2: (a) c. 1 the register of non-profit corporate entities shall be added after the word "Register'; (b) c. 3 the word "speciality' is replaced by "speciality' relating to the design, production, maintenance, repair, conversion or technical supervision of an increased risk facility. 2. In para. 3, p. 1 point (a) is replaced by the specifics relating to the design, production, maintenance, repair, conversion or technical supervision of an increased-risk facility. 3. In para. 5 words from the Commercial Register shall be deleted and a sentence shall be created second: the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision shall issue the licence or, in a reasoned manner, refuse its issue within a period of time from the submission of the application. 4. In para. 6 words may be deleted and the words may be replaced by the words may be required by the words. 5. A new para is being created. 7. When examining the application and the documents submitted and/or the on-the-spot verification, incompleteness and/or non-compliance with the requirements of para. 2 or 3 and para. 4 The applicant shall be notified in writing and a period of not more than one month from receipt of the notification of their removal. The notification shall be made by the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. The term under para. 5 stops running until the incomplete and/or the non-compliances are resolved. 6. So far, the Al. 7 becomes para. 8 and in it: (a) c. 1 after the word "ADress".... is added.... (b) c. 2 the words "in BULSTAT" shall be deleted; (c) c. 5 at the beginning is added the number and the number. 7. So far, the Al. 8 becomes para. 9 and in a sentence, the first sentence shall be added, or have not eliminated the incompleteness and/or discrepancies within the term under para. 7 or they have not paid a state fee under art. 43s..................................................................... 8. So far, the Al. 9 becomes para. 10 and in it is created t. 6: It's six. No application for verification under art. 34b and/or when a person under art. 34a, para. 1 did not grant access at the premises and to the places where the activity took place in two consecutive years. 9. So far, the Al. 10 becomes para. 11. 10. So far, the Al. 11 becomes para. 12 and in it the words "al." The following points are inserted after point 9 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011: The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 34b The following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 2: For carrying out the verification under para. 1 authorised persons and structural parts of undertakings or organisations under art. 34a, para. 1 submit an application in a model to the President of the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision, accompanied by a document for a paid state fee under art. 43. The application shall be submitted no earlier than 6 months and no later than 9 months from the date of the last inspection. 2. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3. 3. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4 and in it in t. 1 the words the appropriate time limit shall be replaced by a time limit of not more than one month. 4. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5 and in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u11	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of Paragraph 2 of the Commission Report, the creation of a new § 3 and the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 4, supported by the Commission. They voted 126 MPs: 126, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u12	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35 the following 1. In para. 1: (a) in the text before t. 1 shall be added at the end of the receipt of an application on a template accompanied by the technical documentation and a document for a state fee paid under art. The following points are inserted after point 43 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): (b) c. 1 a dash shall be inserted at the end and added within 14 days. (c) point 2 is amended as follows: "2." the investment projects of the construction works in which higher-risk facilities will operate, in the part relating to those facilities, after carrying out the expertise of the projects within the time limit: (a) 14 days for projects of sites in which up to two facilities will operate; (b) 14 days for projects of sites where automotive gas supply stations, gas supply stations, filling points for liquefied hydrocarbon gas cylinders and filling stations for compressed, liquefied and pressured gas; c) 14 days for projects of sites where a section of distribution pipeline up to 5 km long will operate; (d) 14 days for a project of sites where a section of a transport pipeline up to 10 km long will operate; (e) 14 days for the design parts relating to the design of pipelines and pumping stations for the transport of oil and petroleum products; (f) 14 days for projects of the sites where acetylene generator stations will operate, filling stations for acetylene bottles and acetylene conduits to them; (g) 21 days for projects of sites in which 3 to 5 pieces of equipment will operate; (h) 21 days for projects of sites where compressor stations will operate; (i) 28 days for projects of sites where more than 5 facilities will operate; (k) 30 days for a project of a thermal power plant in which pressure equipment (cats, pressure vessels and water vapour and hot water pipelines) will operate; (l) 30 days for projects of sites in which rope lines will operate. (d) c. A dash shall be inserted at the end and added within 14 days. 2. The creation of para. 3: No investment projects for construction projects which provide for the installation of lifts shall be certified.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u13	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 4, which shall become § 5 of the Commission Report. They voted 121 MPs: 121, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u14	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36 the following amendments and additions are 1. In para. 2, p. 1 the register of non-profit corporate entities is added at the end. 2. In para. 4 the words from the Commercial Register shall be deleted and a sentence shall be created second: the President of the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision or the officials of the Directorate-General for State Technical Supervision shall enter the person in the register under para. 1 and issue a certificate of entry or reasoned refusal of registration. 3. In para. The second sentence of the second sentence shall be replaced by the second sentence. 4. A new para is being created. 6: When examining the application and the documents submitted and/or the on-the-spot verification, incompleteness and/or non-compliance with the requirements of para. 2 or 3, the applicant shall be notified in writing and a period of not more than one month from receipt of the notification of their removal. The notification shall be made by the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. The term under para. 4 stops running until the incomplete and/or the non-compliances are resolved. 5. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 7 and it shall not meet the requirements after the words..................................................................................................................... 6 or has not paid a state fee under art. 43s..................................................................... 6. Previously on AMC's... 7 and 8 become respectively. 8 and 9. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 2: For carrying out the verification under para. 1 persons entered in the register and received a certificate under art. 36, para. 1 submit an application in a model to the President of the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision or persons authorised by him, accompanied by a document of state fee paid under art. 43. The application shall be submitted no earlier than 6 months and no later than 9 months from the date of the last inspection. 2. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3. 3. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4 and in it in t. 1 the words the appropriate time limit shall be replaced by a time limit not exceeding one month. 4. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5 and is amended as follows: The President of the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision or officials authorised by the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision shall remove the person from the register of art. 36, para. 1 and void the certificate issued with a reasoned written order where: 1. the established infringements under para. 4 shall be carried out systematically; 2. the person has ceased to meet some of the requirements of art. 36, para. 2 and 3; 3. the person has not submitted an application for verification under para. 2 and/or has not granted access at the premises where the activity takes place in two consecutive years; 4. a written application has been lodged by the registered person. 5. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6 And in it all the words. The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): The following points are inserted after point 5 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u15	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 5, which shall become § 6; and the version of § 6, which shall become § 7 of the Commission Report. They voted 118 MPs: 118, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u16	Three paragraphs next. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 9. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 10. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become §11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 42 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 sentence 2 is created: The initial technical review shall be carried out within 14 days of the submission of the application. 2. A new para is being created. 2: When checks and reviews under para. 1, with the exception of the sudden ones, shall be carried out by the General Directorate for State Technical Supervision (CCI), users shall submit an application on a template accompanied by a document for a state fee paid under art. 43. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u17	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for paragraphs 7, 8 and 9, which shall become paragraphs 8, 9 and 10 respectively, supported by the Commission; and the version of § 10, which shall become § 11 of the Commission Report. They voted 114 MPs: for 114, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u18	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 12. The Commission proposes to create a new § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 44 after the word "supplied', the words "supplied' shall be inserted after the word "supplied' and the second sentence shall be deleted. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 12, which becomes § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 45 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: suppliership and/or management of high-risk facilities shall be acquired after training organised by a training organisation under the Vocational Education and Training Act. 2. In para. 2 after the word The Commission proposes to establish § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 46, para. 1, t. 2 after the word The Commission proposes to establish § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57 after the word The Commission proposes to establish a final provision division with § 17: "Concluding provision' § 17. The law shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of § 14, item 14. Article 1 concerning Art. 1 45, para. 1 which shall enter into force from 1 July 2021
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u19	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the text of the importer for § 11, which becomes § 12, supported by the Commission; the creation of a new § 13; the editing of § 12, which becomes § 14 of the Commission Report; the creation of a new § 15; the creation of a new § 16; and the creation of a section. REPORTER PETER KUNEV: Colleagues, thank you for your extremely active participation in the debates under this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u20	Mr. Kanev, and we thank you for the expressive reading of the Report.................... and there was no disagreement, complete unanimity. They voted 111 MPs: 111, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted. Moving on to next point: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO PRAY THE PRIVIZATION OF A COMPANY OF THE IMMOBILITY OF THE GOREN ORYAHOVSKI IS PROCEEDING. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2020. Here you are, Mrs. Saveklieva, to brief us on the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u21	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Before we proceed to the examination of the draft decision, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I make a procedure to be allowed in the Chamber by the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Veliko Zanchev.. Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u22	Please vote on the procedure so made. 99 MPs voted: 97, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Deputy Minister to the Chamber. Here you are, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u23	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision to privatize a part of the property of Gorna Oryahovitsa (Gorna Oryahovitsa) Ltd., No 002-03-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2020. At its regular meeting held on 20 May 2020, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the draft decision on the privatisation of a separate part of the property of Gorna Oryahovitsa. "Gorna Oryahovitsa" Airport is a company included in the Annex to art. 3, para. 1 of the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. By letter to the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the manager of the trading company has offered for sale a property property of a non-operative asset owned by the company. The Executive Director of the Agency for Public Enterprises and Control has expressed the opinion that the property described above has the characteristics of a part of the company within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 1 of the Additional Provisions of the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. In accordance with art. 3, para. 3, p. 1 of the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, the sale of parts of commercial companies with more than 50 percent state participation in the capital included in the list. 3, para. 1 shall be carried out on the basis of a decision adopted by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Council of Ministers. The proposed property for sale is part of the measures taken by Gorna Oryahovitsa Airport to improve the financial situation of the company through the sale of non-operative assets. According to the information provided by the Commission, it is necessary to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and whether it is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. As a result, the financial and economic results of the trading company were deteriorated, with the main sources of revenue for Gorna Oryahovitsa Airport. The company lacks financial resources to support its non-operative assets, resulting in depreciation and destruction and subsequently depreciation. In 2018, after a tender procedure, a lease contract has been concluded for that asset, but the income generated so far from renting is extremely insufficient, covering the costs of compulsory insurance, local property taxes, household waste fee, depreciation charges, salary funds, social security contributions, consumables, etc. The company also faces costs incurred and incurred by the other owners in the building. In the medium term, the company is having difficulties, therefore the sale of the asset will provide revenue that would guarantee its financial stability in the future. The expected proceeds from the sale amounted to approximately 125 thousand. lv. Following the presentation and discussion of the draft decision, a vote was held which ended with the following results:........................ 14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the draft decision on the privatisation of a separate part of the property of Gorna Oryahovitsa" Ltd., Gorna Oryahovitsa, No 002-03-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u24	Mrs. Saveklieva, and the draft decision to introduce us.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u25	Project! DECISION for privatization of a part of the property of Gorna Oryahovitsa "Gorna Oryahovitsa" Ltd. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 3, para. 3, p. 1 of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act and Decision No 136 of the Council of Ministers of 2 March 2020. HAS DECIDED Privatization of the following part of the property of Gorna Oryahovitsa Airport. Pizza with an area of 176,59 sq. m, built on municipal land, representing regulated land property III No. 3207 in district 794 according to the plan of the CFG, gr. Gorna Oryahovitsa, consisting of a two-level shopping hall, a warm kitchen with a furnace, preparatory, sanitary rooms for visitors and staff and a light attachment for extension to a shopping hall with an area of 82,34 sq. m, in the mode of moving object, along with the right to construction, at the boundaries of the property: street, UPI II. building, property 3479 and UPI-IVI for adm. a building in the district of 794, according to the Notary Act of Property on Real Estate No 130, Volume I, peg. No 504, case No 53/2018, issued by Ivan Maznev Gorna Oryahovitsa, entered under heading 284 in the Register of the Notary Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. Mr. Letifov, please let us know the Report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u27	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision to privatize a part of the property of Gorna Oryahovitsa (Gorna Oryahovitsa) Ltd., No 002-03-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2020. At its meeting held on 27 May 2020, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications examined a draft decision on the privatisation of a separate part of the property of Gorna Oryahovitsa. - Ltd. - Gorna Oryahovitsa, No 002-03-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2020. The meeting was attended by Mr. Veliko Zanchev Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, who presented the draft decision. Mr. Zanchev said that after the entry into force of the contract for concession at a civil airport for public use, Gorna Oryahovitsa, the commercial company Gorna Oryahovitsa Airport (EAD) ceased its main activity as an airport operator for ground services. As a result of the termination of this activity, the financial and economic results of the commercial company are strongly influenced as the main and only sources of revenue of the company's "Gorna Oryahovitsa Airport" Ltd. remain the sale and lease of assets. In this regard, the manager of the commercial company has made a proposal to the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications for the sale of the real estate subject to the draft decision. The proposed for sale real estate is part of the measures taken by Gorna Oryahovitsa Airports Ltd. to improve the financial situation of the company through the sale of assets. In accordance with art. 3, para. 3, p. 1 of the Law on privatization and post-privatization control the privatisation of included in the list under art. 3, para. 1 commercial companies with more than 50 per cent State participation in capital, including for their units or included in the list under para. 1 separate parts of the property of commercial companies shall be carried out on the basis of a decision adopted by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Council of Ministers. As a result of the vote held, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 12 votes....... 6 votes against............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u28	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. While we wait, I'll read one more time: Project! DECISION for privatization of a part of the property of Gorna Oryahovitsa "Gorna Oryahovitsa" Ltd. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 3, para. 3, p. 1 of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act and Decision No 136 of the Council of Ministers of 2 March 2020. HAS DECIDED Privatization of the following part of the property of Gorna Oryahovitsa Airport. Pizza with an area of 176,59 sq. m, built on municipal land, representing regulated land property III No. 3207 in district 794 according to the plan of the CFG, gr. Gorna Oryahovitsa, consisting of a two-level shopping hall, a warm kitchen with a furnace, preparatory, sanitary rooms for visitors and staff and a light attachment for extension to a shopping hall with an area of 82,34 sq. m, in the mode of moving object, along with the right to construction, at the boundaries of the property: street, UPI II. building, property 3479 and UPI-IVI for adm. a building in the district of 794, according to the Notary Act of Property on Real Estate No 130, Volume I, peg. No 504, case No 53/2018, issued by Ivan Maznev Gorna Oryahovitsa, entered under heading 284 in the Register of the Notary Chamber. Please, voting mode. Vote 97 MPs: 79, against 6, abstention 12. The decision's been made. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR ENERGY. The Energy Commission report will introduce us to Mr. Nikolov. Here you are, dear Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Energy Act, No 054-01-48, submitted on 29 May 2020 by Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs for the first vote At its regular meeting held on 2 June 2020, the Energy Commission discussed and voted on the above-mentioned bill. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Energy: Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova Minister; by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission: Mr. Ivan Ivanov On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Valentin Nikolov, who set out the reasons for the proposed changes. The amendments and additions to the Energy Act introduce in the national legislation of the Republic of Bulgaria the requirements regarding the introduction of non-bit electricity consumers on a free market of Directive (EU) 2019/944 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 June 2019 on common rules for the internal market in electricity and amending Directive 2012/27/EU. Electricity consumers are very important to achieve the flexibility required to adapt the electricity system to variable and distributed generation of electricity from renewable sources. At this time, a procedure for approving a capacity mechanism is under way in Bulgaria and one of the main requirements is for the state to present a plan for gradual full liberalisation of the electricity market. The introduction of a capacity mechanism is a natural and temporary measure to ensure the security of the electricity system during the transition to a low-carbon economy. The use of capacity mechanisms shall mean the provision of capacity availability for a given period for a given system. Europe has chosen the model for achieving a low-carbon economy, but European markets currently do not provide enough revenue not only to build new capacities, but also to maintain and secure, sustainable exploitation of existing conventional plants. The introduction of a capacity mechanism will ensure continuity of supply, providing financial resources for operators under competitive and transparent conditions. Capacity mechanisms are recognised by the European Commission as a method by which Member States can guarantee security of electricity supply. The project for full liberalisation of the electricity market envisions the expansion of the free electricity market in the country, with the next step in market liberalisation being the transition of all business users from regulated market to free market. This change will affect about 300,000 users with annual consumption of about 4,500 000 megawatts. After the implementation of this change in the regulated market will be shrinked to 10 000 000 " 10 500 000 megawatts of electricity and only domestic consumers will be present in it. One of the expected benefits of this measure is to boost competition among traders, as well as the emergence of new traders. The free market guarantees competition and fair prices for the benefit of consumers. Another positive effect of the proposed changes will lead to a more accurate forecast of the quantities of electricity needed for the regulated market. In the last year, there has been a large migration of consumers from a free market to a regulated market. This in turn led to a shortage of electricity in the quota of the public supplier providing electricity supply in the regulated segment of the electricity market. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the price of electricity in Bulgaria, in the region as well as throughout the European Union fell dramatically and followed a new wave of migration from regulated to free market for the last two months. At present, the final price of electricity on a free market is approximately 20% lower than that on a regulated market. The current amendments and additions propose a transitional period for the entry into force of the norms in order to enable the relevant actions to be carried out under the Electricity Trading Rules for switching the supplier and the conduct of procedures under the Public Procurement Act by state and municipal institutions and companies. The MP from the parliamentary group of BSP Tasco Ermenkov raised issues related to the need to protect vulnerable consumers, the transition to a supplier of the last instance of consumers who did not choose a supplier in the specified legal period and the cross-subsidisation between domestic and non-domestic customers on the regulated market.. The topics which need to be refined as proposals between the first and second votes of the bill. The following discussion was attended by employers, trade unions and civil society organizations and electricity distribution companies, who expressed their support to the Bill. Following the end of the discussion and on the basis of the 13-vote energy committee vote, 6 votes abstentioned and without abstention proposed by Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Energy Act, No 054-01-48, submitted on 29 May 2020 by Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u30	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. [[Noise and lines.]] By importer, if...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u31	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u32	Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are looking at a law that is extremely important and will have an impact on a large number of electricity consumers. It is about all small micro enterprises that are non-bit users.. it is about kindergartens, it is about schools, it is about bakerys, it is about hairdressers, it is also about all those doctors and dentists who are registered as ETs and who also need to go out on the free market. The problem that exists with this law is that we are doing it not so much by following the directive which obliges us to make liberalisation by 2021, as forced by the circumstances to do it now, quickly so that we can receive notification of the capacity mechanism so that our thermal power plants can work. Unfortunately, this commitment of liberalisation to the notification is the result of the delayed actions of the government of the Republic of Bulgaria regarding the application, the inclusion of Bulgaria in the capacity mechanism, something that should have been done before the end of last year, something that happened at the beginning of this year, which gave reason for the European Commission to tell us: if you do not liberalize the market, at least to non-victual consumers, do not show any action in this direction, we will not notify you of the capacity mechanism, which in practice means that the thermal power plants will stop operating. This is under the general framework of this action that we are taking now. Clearly, we must take these actions because we cannot let the thermal power plants not work. You know there are over 120,000 people employed there, indirectly or directly, and we can't leave them out of a job. However, there are several problems in this bill that are troubling us. First of all, that the large number of small and micro enterprises, consumers that will go out on the free market are not interested in energy traders because they have little consumption. The energy trader, if he makes individual contracts with each of these enterprises, will not have enough profit march to cover even the administrative costs of serving those customers. In practice this means that if they do not find an energy trader, they will have to go to a supplier last instance, and there prices are extremely high. And if we allow this to happen without taking measures and without finding the mechanism for this bill, it means dooming many small and micro-consumers, non-biters, of bankruptcy, because they will have to pay a high price for electricity, which will actually lead to a high price of services and the production they offer. Here we need to think very carefully between first and second reading what we are doing so that we can guarantee these micro consumers those benefits of liberalisation that we are all talking about will lead to a lower price will lead to better competitiveness. If we do not do so, we will achieve the opposite... we will fail them, unfortunately. There is another problem, which exists. The exit of a large number of consumers from the regulated market of the free market will lead to the need to increase the liquidity of the Bulgarian independent energy exchange. This basically means that part of the electricity that was now sold on the regulated market will have to be sold on the stock market, but this cannot be any electricity, because you can't imagine, I suppose, that the electricity that is produced by the TPP Maritsa East or by the TPPs, the Americans, the so-called ones will be able to sell on the exchange due to its high price. In practice, it means that the electricity produced by the NPP, which will, in fact, reduce electricity at a low price on the regulated market and create prerequisites for an increase in the price of this market, will come out of the free market regulated. To what extent and in what way this will happen, it is also up to the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, which is called to mitigate such blows. And there's something else that's bothering us. We continue to talk about liberalisation and this is not here in this Bill, but I would like to draw attention to the ruling majority that they follow very strictly the recommendations of the World Bank and the European directives on market liberalisation, but so far nothing has happened, or at least nothing has been known to have done, or at least no one has informed us that something is being done with regard to the so-called energy vulnerable customers. These are not only energy poor people who do not have enough income to cover their electricity needs, for which the state must find a mechanism to provide them with this electricity, these are those whose lives depend on continuous supply of electricity. Measures in this respect to ensure the supply of electricity under these conditions must be taken. There's no way everyone can go to the liberalized market. There will also be protected categories that need to be identified must be shown who they are, how many they are and what measures will guarantee their electricity supply. In this regard, the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria will abstain from this bill. We will be looking for solutions so that we can overcome these shortcomings that I have mentioned to you, because the problem of finding an energy trader who is interested in supplying a small enterprise and making a contract with it cannot be resolved so that it is left to the good will of the energy trader. We need to find those mechanisms to ensure that these small and micro enterprises are able to find their energy vendors, perhaps a final supplier, who will sell energy through energy traders, or other mechanisms, so that we can achieve the objectives of liberalisation, and not achieve what we normally do, we liberalize, then we get constant reproaches that what we have done leads to an increase in prices. You know how there were such protests from the big producers. One more time I say, we'll look for solutions because they're important. We need to find that model, which, on the one hand, will guarantee us that a liberalisation process will begin, which is a condition for receiving the notification of the capacity mechanism, but on the other hand, not to achieve this thing at the expense of the bankruptcy of thousands of small consumers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u34	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Line, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u35	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, you have expressed some concerns that I would like to assure you that you are wrong. In my opinion, this bill is the next logical step for full market liberalisation and, I think, is timely. You have voiced concern that the small consumers of electricity will not be attractive, which we are now taking out on a liberalised market, but yesterday in the Commission debates it became clear that the KEWRC and electricity traders have convinced us that they are preparing packages to offer these small consumers to collapse, to offer them such a service. So we made sure that they would not be left without a proposal from traders. And I think this will happen because when you make a big package with very small consumers, they will be attractive accordingly. With regard to the fact that there will be no balancing of the supply of electricity, in the sense that it will come out at our estimates, about 4.5 teravats will be drawn from a regulated on a liberalised market, respectively, and there will be such a offering on this liberalised market. On the part of our electricity exchange it became clear that by the end of the year the exchanges will be connected by the end of the year the Bulgarian market with that of Romania and with the Greek, respectively, that we will have an open market. Accordingly, when there is greater liquidity on the Bulgarian Electricity Exchange with greater demand, greater supply, it will be much more balanced in terms of market openness and in terms of not manipulating the markets themselves. Your concern for the so-called energy-vulnerable, yet here we are talking about this step that liberalizes businesses rather than individuals. Those who can be energy-vulnerable, they remain on a regulated market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u36	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Second line? Mr. Ermenkov, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u37	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Boychev! Unfortunately, yesterday in the Commission, I heard what the Commission said about energy and water regulation in terms of grouping small consumers, but I do not imagine the liberalisation of supply through consolidation of small consumers. However, we must leave the right of the small consumer to have the reasonable opportunity to obtain energy without forcing him to enter, rudely speaking, into the fold, so that it may be easier for the trader to somehow supply it with energy. And the other thing that bothered me yesterday in the speeches and in the opinions we received from the electricity distribution companies was that they were everywhere talking about how we need to improve the conditions and the way energy is delivered from the last instance supplier, which is worrying because this electricity is the most expensive. There was nowhere written how they would seek a solution to supply them with a normal price. So I say again, we need to sit down and think about what and how to guarantee each user, non-bit, micro or small, whether it will become overwhelm anyone else, whether it will appear individually, but be able to get the energy to really get what we are talking about, competitiveness. As for liquidity, I said yes, it will really come out of the regulated market, that energy that was now for them will go to the free market, but that energy will unfortunately be the cheap energy that is on the regulated market. This will be the energy that the NPP is currently giving to the regulated market. It will go to the free market because there is no way the expensive energy of the power plants to go there is no one to buy it, which in fact creates a risk of increasing the price in the regulated market. And that is why we have concerns, so we need to look for those solutions that will enable, on the one hand, this liberalisation to happen, again, it is necessary because we will not receive notification of the capacity mechanism and we will have to close the TPPs, but, on the other hand, this must not be done at all costs. We will look for a solution so that we can guarantee small and micro-enterprises a normal price on a liberalised market that will guarantee what we are all talking about - competitiveness, lower price, better conditions, not vice versa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u38	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. We are continuing with the speeches.. You are welcome to speak, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u39	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman! Colleagues, we are looking at a bill that affects a large part of society, a bill that is actually a policy of the government. When such laws are passed, I have nothing against Mr. Nikolov, but when you have a change of policy in a sector, this change in this sector should come from the Council of Ministers, from the Prime Minister, to propose in the National Assembly, so that society can sharpen its attention that what will happen in the next three months is much more important than going around certain built motorways. I am telling you this with sincere concern because to burden Mr. Nikolov to present the liberalisation of the energy market is something similar to making him present the change of the toll system in Bulgaria and then try to hide behind the ideas of the MPs. Yes, of course, the MPs, especially Mr. Nikolov, have been involved in energy for many years. We in the Commission cannot fail to support the liberalisation of the energy market. This is a requirement under a European Union directive, but my concern is to avoid taking responsibility from the government, those concerns of mine will happen and we will get to the point that society will not understand what we are doing. Those who will be affected are about 300,000 customers. There is no way and in what way to sharpen their attention and they can find an opportunity to read the Law, to assimilate all that is done, to find the relevant specialists to go looking for those traders who have not yet come forward, but they will appear. It will be so that, colleagues, Mr. Nikolov, October 1 will be a very short period, because changing an overall system, changing some cash flows that have so far flowed in one direction, towards electricity distribution companies, towards the supplier to the last instance, is not an easy problem and is not an issue that can solve it a certain range of MPs who have signed up to eight people who have submitted this. We have serious concerns, Mr. Nikolov. Concerns are from the point of view of what's about to happen, we're going to corrupt the system. Once again, there is no one in the business or any political formation that does not agree with the liberalisation of the electricity market. Why? For the simple reason that we will release certain beneficiaries in this way, we will give the opportunity to the TPP Maritsa East to continue its life until 2025, we will give the small business the opportunity to go out on the free market to feel the reduction. The main idea is to reduce the price of electricity after they enter into a contract with the free market. Is it going to happen? Do you think it'll work? What if they don't make these contracts, then what do we do? They remain with suppliers for the last instance. Well, do we have a chance? Of this 300 thousand 100,000 have found to go, and these 200 thousand how and under what conditions will they sign contracts with the last resort supplier? Therefore, the concerns of the electricity distribution companies were at least KEWRC to intervene and gave those general terms and conditions to be able to conclude contracts with the last resort supplier. And that's it? One good idea, but no clarification, no explanation. It will come to this point that electricity traders will remain the suppliers of the free market of customers. Who else will be committed to delivering to the barbershop in the village of Brennitsa, Kneja municipality, Pleven district? Who will this merchant be? In two months, who are we gonna convince? Colleagues, once again I tell you a good idea, you have to work, you have to do it even when we have done over 30 kilos of power output.......................................................................................................................................................... We will have three suppliers of EVN, the trader of CEZ, the trader of the Energy-Pro who have so far supplied through the regulated market, will deliver from the free market. What about those state and municipal enterprises that have to come out and declare public procurement? Who's gonna report to public procurement? Mr. Nikolov, how do you imagine it? Who are they? Again, these three, including those who, for one reason or another, have been making balancing groups by trying to unite at least a few municipal enterprises or many more state-owned enterprises that can, that margin that they will earn will be sufficient to make the corresponding profit. I don't speak from the point of view of an opposition, as a person who is against everything that is happening. Colleagues, I congratulate the Minister that she directly joined your proposal, Mr. Nikolov, for the fight we are fighting, or that national plan that is needed by the state to make a transformation into the economy, passing through green energy; transformation in education; transformation in health care; transformation in digitization; transformation after the entire European organization and institutions; transformation of Bulgaria, passing from one economy to another economy and giving a head start to those who can sit down to write this national plan. Let's turn to the experts, to the scientists, to the politicians, because this liberalisation, if it is not related to the national plan for going through the crisis and for the crisis to come through the transformation of the economy, especially energy, everything we do will bring us more problems. We will support liberalisation, but the problems that will be born will fall on Mr. Nikolov, and the GERB organization will withdraw from Mr. Nikolov's support when they see that 300 000 customers remain in the dark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u40	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Are there any lines? No lines, no personal explanation. We'll continue with the speeches, colleagues. Are there any other statements? Mr. Nikolov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I welcome all those who have spoken before me and congratulate them because they have not spoken because they are from the BSP or from the DPS, but they have spoken because they are empathetic and say absolutely true their concerns, which are also my concerns, of course. Realistically, the electricity market in Bulgaria is about 34 teravat hours away. At present, between 14 and 15 terawat hours are a regulated market, the rest is a free market. As my colleagues have said before, we are not only being pressured by Directive 944 of 2019, which says that from 1 January only households should remain on a regulated market, but we are therefore being pressured by the National Assembly's decision to support our thermal power plants, where we have obliged the Minister, respectively the Council of Ministers, that these plants should be able to work until the time X when they have to stop their activities, because we have to move on to a completely different economy and to a completely different energy. The only way allowed in Europe that will operate until 2025. This is the capacity mechanism. Yes, but this capacity mechanism does not come for free, it must be notified, and the notification of this mechanism goes through full liberalisation both on the retail market and on the wholesale market, both to households and to all companies. That is, we must already make the vision, and the vision, by the way, is constantly corresponding, I can assure you that every week there are constant conference links with the European Commission as with DG Energy, DG Competition, in relation to this liberalisation. In fact, the next step after what we are going to do now will be to write liberalization texts on the wholesale market, that is, we need to liberalise the wholesale market completely, so that we can write the capacity mechanism in what way it will act so that from 1 July next year we can already have an absolutely complete model and it can already act. About those concerns you're talking about. First, the electricity that Bulgaria has the opportunity to produce is more than the electricity that is consumed. This also shows the fact that we export electricity. On the whole yesterday there was even an export of 500 megawatts of power to neighbouring countries. On the other hand, consumption has decreased well, first, for meteorological reasons and, second, due to the fact that it has affected the entire world in connection with the CoVID-19 pandemic. The consumption is quite shrunk and this is what electricity prices show. Even the Kozloduy NPP refrained from reaching the maximum capacity after the renovation of the V block, which ended last week, and this block worked with 300 megawatts of reduced power. However, the price of electric energy is rotated between 20 euros per megawatt hour. This, on the other hand, gives us the opportunity to take a breath of air so that we can get consumers out, so that they can enter the free market at exactly such a lower price as 20 to 30% lower than the KEWRC determines the estimated market price on the regulated market. So companies going out on the free market now will pay less energy than they pay now on a regulated market. Since we're talking about about 4.5 terawat hours of electricity that will come out, I want to pay the following attention. Last year, after the calculations of the KEWRC, they set a quota for a regulated market. This quota for a regulated market had completely really covered households and small companies that were on a regulated market and suddenly got 2 teravat hours of electricity. Because of the possibility that we have given them, from the free market they went on a regulated market because of the thought that electricity entered in a period where it was higher than the price for a regulated market, that is, we had one migration from the free to the regulated market 2 teravat hours. So half the consumption that we've made now on the market, really, it's already been on the free market, it knows how it works, we have the mechanism to find its electricity supplier, that is, it's not unprepared, it's already getting ready. Even some of those who have migrated from the free to the regulated are now returning to the free without this bill because it is more profitable there at the moment. However, this creates great difficulties for the system. This even forced the minister to issue an order to cover precisely this deficit, which is produced on the regulated market. So half, let's say, not of the companies, of course, are less than half of the companies, but half of the consumption was already on the free market, not unprepared. However, you are absolutely right that the rest who are small even this barbershop, which we are talking about, are not prepared for such a blow. Of course, we need an information campaign that the Ministry is obliged to even do on the basis of the directive. We didn't write all about the first reading for a reason. We have ideas between first and second readings. I'm sure you have ideas, too. Maybe most of them cover themselves with ours, but we just want to get some consensus on these things. That is why we, between first and second readings, want to develop this idea. Firstly, perhaps we should give a transitional period to these small companies that will go out on the free market, in some way to protect them, not to go to the Supplier of last resort. Perhaps the Supplier of last resort can be given some kind of DMV, that is, not randomly giving some big price to those who have not chosen a trader, perhaps there are other methods.. is also an option, and we can make a transition period, but not leave them on the regulated market, which would be a big mistake. They must be on the free market, but we must encourage them or whoever has not chosen to send in a particular segment. That's one option. Secondly, we must oblige the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, perhaps some other entity, so even if we decide to do so, I am looking for this consensus, which is subject to a discussion that we will be having, to make a platform. This is also an obligation of this Directive. With this platform each buyer can choose his own trader based on the calculations that will conduct this calculator that will be in it. And not just that, but with one click, he can change his dealer. This will strengthen competitiveness in the sector and competition between companies, to be able to attract more and more such entities. These subjects, thank God, are easy to balance because they have a profile, they are not based on consumption with an hourly profile. They have a monthly profile and are easy to balance, so traders will not run away from them. On the contrary, they will make a portfolio, but indeed the deadline is not very long. So maybe we should think about such a transition period where we can send those who haven't made their way, somewhere where they won't be destroyed, say, a last resort supplier. These things will certainly be scheduled between first and second readings and we must protect them, but we must move towards a competitive market and that is the step. Of course, the importers have taken responsibility, especially me as the first among equals, of this, if, God forbid, this transition does not happen well, but we must, however, someone take on this responsibility, so I hope my colleagues do not back off from me. I hope everything goes well and I think everyone is prepared, we have been talking about this liberalisation for a long time, we have made round tables, we have explained what will happen, so this is coming. People are prepared. From the very reaction of the people it is evident that they are mentally prepared for this transition. What's next? After making this platform with this calculator and free choice between traders, we should make a major information campaign among the households to prepare them for their future release into the free market, which can happen in two or three years, maximum up to five, because we no longer have another option for greater delay. We have the opportunity, respectively, after this information campaign to be conducted, to also oblige, if you want between first and second readings, the ministries to finally identify these energy poor and vulnerable consumers, we can oblige them. After all, we are the ones who decide what needs to happen and give deadlines. If we oblige the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Ministry of Energy to identify them, to make the mechanism, we will already be prepared for market entry and domestic consumers. So these steps, you see, together, expertly, follow their course. The best of all is that no parliamentary group is against, but is looking for an option in which to help carry out what is mandatory for us, sooner or later. We have seen that all the organizations that were both employers and trade unions and freemen said that they support liberalisation. Yeah, between first and second readings, we need to do even better, so we can protect these people when they come out. So I welcome, of course, expertly to do this. Thank you for your attention and support.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u42	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. The line, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u43	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Nikolov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I do not agree with you, Mr. Nikolov, that one of the reasons why we are rushing with this privatisation is the decision of the National Assembly to oblige the government to protect the TPPs. On the contrary, we made this decision because the government had not done its job so far, and that was the reason we made that decision. As they say, we reached out our hand in the name of energy security, in the name of the work of over 120 thousand people, in the name of keeping these plants working. And there's no way that's gonna be a reason for us to rush privatization now. In fact, for both decisions, and in order to hurry with privatisation now, and in order to make this decision as parliament then, it is the government and its sluggishness in terms of capacity and the mechanism with which it had to apply before the end of last year and which it did not do. So let us not try to justify the government for the things that they have not done, to shift responsibility back to parliament. By the way, and in this regard, Mr. Nikolov, I congratulate you for taking responsibility for what we do and for taking this responsibility personally, but this personal responsibility, unfortunately, is allocated to the entire parliament. And tomorrow, if we were wrong, they wouldn't say Mr. Nikolov was wrong, but they would say: the Bulgarian Parliament didn't do its job again. So here we join what Mr. Atalay said that this bill should have been the result of the government's work and it should have been imported, and not once again, that we should have done the work of the executive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u44	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Another line? Hole, Mr. Nikolov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Ermenkov! First of all, I'd like to say to the audience that Mr. Ermenkov made a lapsus unintentionally. It's not about privatization, it's not about privatization, it's not about privatization, it's about liberalisation. It's just a good thing you said it, but if someone doesn't find out something, that we're going to privatize it, that it's going to happen...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u46	Lapsus did.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u47	Lapsus. Lapsus is made, yes. In fact, I agree, Mr. Ermenkov, and we appreciate your efforts and suggestions that you have made in order to really help these miners. As you can see, the entire National Assembly has supported these ideas. You've had other ideas, and I speak as a group, and personally yours, which we have also supported. This shows that we should not politicize this particular sector..... because whoever inherits it will eventually harvest the fruits of this confrontation, which, by no means, will work. So I have always welcomed the togetherness and intentions that we have, and the understanding that we have, how this sector goes. Of course, details are important, and that is why I say that these details should be cleared in a discussion between first and second readings. It is not easy to walk in a bright future with some good ideas that are really good for Europe, but to shut down whole sectors. It's not easy at all! Therefore, it must be done honestly and tell people what is to come. Of course, so we will call on the Ministry of Energy to be as honest as possible to the people, to tell them what the prospects are, to tell them what the options are, so that these people accept the future calmly and know that this transition is inevitable, but they will not be abandoned, I absolutely agree with you. So we'll work together and help give the Ministry the courage to tell that truth. There's no way to hide it. Thank you for the honesty of all of us and we hope that together we will make a good transition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u48	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. We are continuing the debate. Are there any other statements? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I will put to the first vote the bill amending and supplementing the Energy Act with importers Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs. Vote 128 MPs: for 101, against no, abstention 27. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR MARITIME SPACES, INTERNAL WATERS AND PORTS OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. You have the floor, dear Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u49	Thank you. If I may, first admission procedure on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Staff Regulations of Mr. Veliko Zanchev Deputy Minister of Transport, and Mr. Zhivko Petrov Executive Director of the Sea Administration.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u50	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the proposal for admission made in this House. Please, voting mode. They voted 111 MPs: 109, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite those admitted to the courtroom. Please continue, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u51	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and Ports of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 002-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 May 2020. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 27 May 2020, a Draft Law on amendment and supplement of the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria was discussed, No 002-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 May 2020. The meeting was attended by Mr. Veliko Zanchev Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, and Mr. Vladimir Todorov Deputy Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration. Mr. Zanchev presented the draft Law by clarifying that it was drawn up in fulfillment of the commitments of the Republic of Bulgaria as a Member State of the European Union to introduce implementing measures for Regulation (EU) 2017/352 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 February 2017 establishing a framework for the provision of port services and common rules for the financial transparency of ports, hereinafter referred to as the Regulation (EU) Regulation (EU) 2017/352 establishes for the first time a single regulatory framework with regard to access to the port services market, financing and charging of port infrastructure and port services. The basic idea is that facilitating access to the port services market and introducing financial transparency and autonomy of maritime ports from the trans-European transport network (TEN-T) will improve the quality and efficiency of services provided to port users and contribute to creating more favourable conditions for investment in ports, reducing costs for transport users, promoting short-distance maritime transport, as well as better integration of maritime transport by rail, inland waterway transport and road transport. According to the provision of art. 1 paragraph 4 of Regulation (EU) 2017/352 and Annex II of Regulation (EU) No 1315/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the Union guidelines for the development of the trans-European transport network and repealing Decision No 661/2010/EU, to which it refers, within the scope of that act of European Union secondary law, are two Bulgarian maritime ports. According to the current Bulgarian legislation Port of Burgas, and Port of Varna, as such, do not exist. Both in the region of Burgas and in the region of Varna operate one port for public transport of national importance and several ports for public transport of regional importance. Mr. Zanchev also drew attention to the fact that the legal regime established by the Law on Maritime Spaces, inland waterways and ports of the Republic of Bulgaria is common to the Black Sea and to our Danube ports and is applicable not only to public transport ports, but also to fishing, yachting and special purpose ports. In this respect, measures must be provided at national level to implement Regulation (EU) 2017/352, without prejudice to the existing model of organisation and management of ports which remain outside its scope. In view of the above, the Law proposes the abolition of the division of ports for public transport of such as national and regional importance. Next, it is envisaged to remove the classification of port services according to the technology and organisation of operation of services necessary for the use of port and/or port facilities and services for which this is not necessary. This approach will allow uniform and ease the order of access to port services. It is generally proposed that any trader who has demonstrated compliance with the statutory minimum requirements acquire the right of access to the maritime and technical port services market by virtue of its registration in the Register of port operators in the Republic of Bulgaria, irrespective of whether the service will be carried out within the scope of Regulation (EU) 2017/352 public transport port or ports outside the scope of the Regulation and whether vessels, land vehicles or facilities located on the port territory will be used to carry out the service. The bill also provides for an amendment to the port charges and price arrangements of port services in a manner that reflects the requirements of Regulation (EU) 2017/352. Port charges shall be introduced for the use of port infrastructure; port charges shall be maintained for the acceptance and handling of waste................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The proposed draft introduces specific rules on ports falling within the scope of Regulation (EU) 2017/352, in particular: the formation of two public transport ports, which include both terminals whose territory and port infrastructure are public state owned and terminals whose territory and port infrastructure are privately owned; the identification of management and control bodies and the allocation between them of the powers arising from Regulation (EU) 2017/352; the definition of the procedures to be followed by those authorities when adopting the decisions provided for in the Regulation, as well as the procedures for contesting those decisions; the introduction of administrative criminal provisions for failure to comply with the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2017/352. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on maritime spaces, inland waterways and ports of the Republic of Bulgaria also provides for amendments to texts not directly related to the implementation of measures implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/352, but without which the Bill could not comply with the requirements of the Law on Legislative Acts and Decree No 883 of 1974 on its implementation. Their main task is to achieve uniformity of the concepts in the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria. After the presentation of the bill, a discussion took place in which the MPs Nikolay Tishev and Ivan Valkov took part. Following the vote, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 13 votes for the Republic of Bulgaria, No 002-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 May 2020, proposed an amendment to the Law on Maritime Spaces, Internal Waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 002-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 May 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u52	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. You have the floor, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and Ports in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 002-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 May 2020. At a meeting held on 28 May 2020, the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and Ports in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 002-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 May 2020. The bill was presented by Mr. Veliko Zanchev Deputy Minister at the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The main objective of the proposed amendment and supplement of the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland waterways and ports of the Republic of Bulgaria is to provide measures at national level for the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2017/352 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 February 2017 establishing a framework for the provision of port services and common rules for the financial transparency of ports. The removal of what took place in art. 116, para. 3 of the Law on maritime spaces, inland waterways and ports of the Republic of Bulgaria divides the order for obtaining access to the market of maritime and technical port services provided in public transport ports. The changes to the port charges system and the prices of port services offered by § 8 "11, § 14 and § 15 of the Bill shall be expressed in the following: 1. port charges for the use of port infrastructure shall be introduced; 2. the port fees for acceptance and handling of waste shall be maintained. The result of shipping activity shall be maintained; 3. ships visiting the port concerned and those operating therein shall owe port charges for the use of port infrastructure and for the acceptance and treatment of waste; 4. persons entitled to determine by size and collect port charges for the use of the port infrastructure and for the acceptance and handling of waste "Seaspaces, Inland Waterways and Ports of the Republic of Bulgaria' (yachts, fishing and special purpose) when, for sea access, they are used infrastructure to access a port within the scope of Regulation (EU) 2017/352, as well as the owners of the territory and port infrastructure of ports other than those listed above; 5. the time limits for port charges to be paid shall be determined; 6. the principles and rules to be followed in determining the amount of port charges for the use of port infrastructure and the activities for which the funds raised may be spent shall be regulated; 7. shall be maintained in accordance with the requirements of Directive 2000/59/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2000 on port reception facilities for waste from the operation of ships and cargo residues for determining the amount of port charges for the acceptance and handling of waste.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 8. the existing and current obligation of the State-owned Port Infrastructure ( Port Infrastructure) is maintained to transfer to the Ministry of Defence part of the port charges for the use of the port infrastructure corresponding to the navigation means supported by it; 9. the current legislative decision is maintained under which the prices of port services are set by size and collected by port operators performing the service concerned; 10. a legal possibility shall be introduced under certain conditions to include the prices of port services in port charges for the use of port infrastructure by introducing an explicit requirement for port users to provide clear information on what part of the paid amount constitutes the prices of the services and what the port charges are; 11. The means for public announcement of port charges and port services prices shall be determined. The most important is the proposed change in the arrangement of the so-called aquatorial fee, which is set in size by the Council of Ministers and is collected annually for the benefit of the state budget. Aquatorial fee is proposed in the future to pay only those owners of the territory and infrastructure of ports under art. ===External links====================================================================================================================================================External links===*============================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================= Following the discussion, the members of the Budget and Finance Committee expressed their principled support for the so- proposed bill, ending its discussion with the following results: The Committee on Budgets and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to support the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Spaces, Internal Waterways and Ports in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 002-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 May 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. We continue with the Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Who will present the report? [[Heckling]] Then the Committee on Legal Affairs "The First Voting Report."
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u55	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland waterways and ports of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 002-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 May 2020. At its meeting held on 27 May 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 002-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 May 2020. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Mr. Veliko Zanchev Deputy Minister, and Mr. Vladimir Todorov Deputy Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration. The bill was presented by Mr. Zanchev, who pointed out that it aims to provide measures at national level to implement Regulation (EU) 2017/352 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 February 2017 establishing a framework for the provision of port services and common rules for the financial transparency of ports. The project also brings the established by the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria registration regulatory regimes in accordance with the requirements of art. Article 7 14 - 17 of the Law on limitation of administrative regulation and administrative control of business. Mr. Zanchev noted that the bill provides for the elimination of the division of ports for public transport of ports of national and regional importance, the abolition of the classification of port services according to their organisation of work, and the introduction of specific rules on ports. The bill lays down port management and control authorities, refines decision-making procedures and the order for their dispute. The circle of persons to whom the right of ownership of the common technical infrastructure and the access infrastructure in the different types of ports may belong shall be determined by proposing that the common technical infrastructure be constructed, extended and maintained by the State-owned enterprise. The circumstances to be entered in the register of port operators shall be determined; persons entitled to initiate an entry procedure; the conditions and arrangements for remedying deficiencies in the application submitted; the time limits for carrying out the administrative service and the officials responsible for providing it. The order to determine port charges, the prices of port services and the time limits for their payment and the activities for which the funds collected may be spent shall be changed. The draft Law provides for the decisions of port operators to determine the structure and amount of the prices of port services to be challenged before the Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration, while all decisions of the managing authority of the port of art. 106a, including those for determining the structure and amount of port charges for the use of port infrastructure, to be contested only before the court under the Administrative Procedure Code. The official beginning of administrative proceedings, the submission of authorisation for the preparation and examination, acceptance and approval of projects shall be strengthened and certain administrative criminal provisions shall be refined. The control for compliance with the rules on financial transparency is envisaged to be carried out by the State Financial Inspection Agency under the terms and conditions of the State Financial Inspection Act. After the vote, the Committee on Legal Issues with 12 votes for the Council, without the opposition of the Republic of Bulgaria and 7 votes abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 002-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 May 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u56	Thank you, dear Mr. Kalfin. The report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government remains. You have the floor, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u57	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 002-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 28 May 2020, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 002-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 May 2020. Mr. Veliko Zanchev Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications took part in the Commission meeting, and Mr. Vladimir Todorov Deputy Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration who presented the bill on behalf of the importer. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on maritime spaces, inland waterways and ports of the Republic of Bulgaria create conditions at national level for the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2017/352 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 February 2017 establishing a framework for the provision of port services and general rules for the financial transparency of ports (OB, L 57 of 3 March 2017.), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u58	Please stop for a moment, Mr. Dimitrov! Colleagues, it's extremely loud in this room! The acoustics are good and even the conversations at the bottom of the room are quite loud here! Please, if there are such important conversations, take them outside, because it is simply disrespectful to the colleague who presents the report. Go on, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Aquatorial fee is proposed to pay only those owners of the territory and infrastructure of ports under art. 107 " 109" of the Law, which have located in the port aquatoria floating hydrotechnical port facilities, which serve as a connection between the ship and the coast, or to protect against wind or wave effects. The proposed changes extend and specify the content of the concept of the overall technical infrastructure of the port. The definition of the terms of the access infrastructure, the infrastructure for access by land and the infrastructure for access by sea or inland waterways used to indicate that specific part of the common technical infrastructure which provides an opportunity to reach the port by water or by land and to enter it shall be introduced. The circle of persons to whom the right of ownership of the common technical infrastructure and access infrastructure in different ports and persons responsible for maintaining the common technical infrastructure of public transport ports, in particular port access infrastructure, shall be defined. With the transitional and final provisions of the Bill changes were made to the Law on Construction of the Area in the section on specialized detailed planning plans for ports and specialized port sites. The plots of land for the aquatory used so far are also planned to be combined with a plan to build an adjacent territory and, if necessary, to include plots of land access infrastructure to existing plans so far. The ports are proposed to drop out of the first category of construction, as it is unacceptable for all ports, regardless of their intended purpose, size, manner and volume of construction, use and others, to be of the same category. For each individual port, the category of construction will be determined depending on the category of individual sites and facilities that are constructed or will be constructed in the respective territory and in the aquatory of the port. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 12 votes for the Council of Bulgaria, No 002-01-17, tabled by the Council of Ministers, proposed to the National Assembly a draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Maritime Spaces, Internal Waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 002-01-17, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u60	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. We've run out of reports with this. Thank you. We're going to discuss the bill. Are there any speeches? Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on maritime spaces, inland waterways and ports of the Republic of Bulgaria propose implementing the texts of Regulation 2017/352, as this regulation, you know, concerns mainly port infrastructure and port services. These texts introduce a single regulatory framework which mainly refers to the introduction of opportunities for a wider market for port services, as well as a more transparent presentation of the financing of port infrastructure and port services. In this way, better efficiency and efficiency of the port services offered will be achieved, an opportunity will be created to increase investment in maritime transport, we expect a reduction in these port charges and services, as well as the development of inland maritime transport. We believe that this will also lead to a better integration of maritime transport with rail transport, bus transport, road transport, and inland waterway transport. It is important to note with regard to this regulation that minimum requirements are required. These minimum requirements are regarding the following: First, the establishment of a transparent, objective, non-discriminatory and proportionate procedure for granting the right of access to the port services market. Secondly, establishing guarantees that port operators will ensure appropriate initial and periodic training for workers with a view to ensuring the quality of port services and protecting the health and safety of port workers. Thirdly, the establishment of transparent financial relations between the managing authorities of maritime ports for which public funds and port operators are granted, on the one hand, and public authorities, on the other, in order to ensure equal conditions for competition and to avoid distortions of the market. Fourth, the introduction of mechanisms to ensure that the charges for the use of port infrastructure and port services prices are determined in a transparent, objective and non-discriminatory manner and are proportionate to the cost of the service offered. Fifthly, establishing mechanisms for the participation of port users and other stakeholders in consultations on essential issues relating to the stable development and functioning of the port, the charging system applied therein and its ability to attract and generate economic activities. Sixth, the introduction of procedures for the handling of complaints and of a system of effective, proportionate and dissuasive penalties in the event of infringement of the applicable Regulation. In this regard, and as a conclusion, I would like to call on the MPs to support the proposed bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria, as it refers to the two main ports, as it has become clear: Varna and Burgas, which are on the European TNT network, and we will thus enable them to become more attractive on the sea market and on the maritime services. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u62	Thank you, dear Mr. Valkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Letifov, do you want a statement? Come in for a speech, then Mr. Tishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, the bill we are dealing with today is extremely important. It aims to translate the texts of Regulation 2017/352 into Bulgarian legislation so as to specify the work concerning port infrastructure. However, there are a few moments here that, of course, when we get to know each other in detail, we need to pay attention to them, we have relevant concerns. These are concerns regarding § 13 and concerning a new Article. 106c, where it becomes clear that the proposed financial model for the maintenance and development of ports in Bulgaria is a precedent. There is no analogue in another European country in this order, because it became clear that these cost-oriented fees would actually be used for salaries, staff training, specialists, clothing, which is, of course, contrary. It is important for us to clarify these issues, it is important to clear this moment... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u64	Colleagues on the left, there are very strong conversations and there are several at the same time. We really can't hear from the stands. If they can be taken outside, and when you're done, come back and let's move on. Continue, Mr. Letifov, I hope they will comply with the note.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u65	Further down in the Bill it becomes clear... I think it was in § 49, Art. 49. 121b, where we see that sanctions will also be imposed when the procedures under this regulation and respectively under this law are not met. In fact, we see that the two authorities that are the State-owned Port Infrastructure and the Executive Agency, which is the competent authority, will be in collaboration as a result of the fact that one will provide the funds to the competent authority and the other will have to impose the appropriate sanctions. For us, this moment needs to be cleared in order for good intentions and good practice, which aims to impose this bill, to happen in such a way that, of course, we want, in order to improve the operation of maritime ports, to develop this transport and indeed this TNT network, or part of the trans-European transport scheme, to work as part of a general or as part of a transport structure. That is why we will abstain at this stage with the idea that the good texts of the law are good, to be supported at second reading with the corresponding adjustments that we expect the Sea Administration will propose. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u66	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. - What's the line? I can't see. Next statement, Mr. Tishev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u67	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! Yes, as stated in the four reports, the Law changes in relation to Regulation of the European Union 90%, but there are also texts in the Bill that do not correspond to the Regulation, nor to common sense. This is where Mr. Letifov found this thesis. The most striking thing is that there is a text which, in my opinion, does not belong at all in the Law, and it is that a state enterprise will directly finance a budgetary organisation which is part of the state administration. We have at least two problems here. The first one is principled. The Commission explained to us that since the State withdrew from the collection of a fee, namely the aquatorial fee, the State-owned Port Infrastructure will finance the Sea Administration with the same amount. That doesn't make any sense at all. The taxes and charges that the State collects are not targeted, they enter into the budget and are spent according to government spending priorities. For example, the health contribution or social security contributions, yes, they are targeted. They enter directly into the Health Insurance Fund, respectively the NSI. It is not that the Sea Administration does not need additional funding, only that it must be done directly from the budget, as all other budgetary organisations do. And as an example, I'm going to give you this app how it's like a road infrastructure to set aside some of the tolls and give them to the Automobile Administration Agency. It doesn't make sense. Secondly, the port charges collected from the Port Infrastructure are cost-oriented, i.e. they are on a cost-covering basis. What does that mean? This means that the amount of fees to be collected must correspond to the costs of building or maintaining the port infrastructure and, of course, to the maintenance costs of the authority responsible for this It is no coincidence that a State-owned enterprise is not gaining profit at the end of the year. With other amendments to the Law, we give interested parties the opportunity to appeal the fee of the Port Infrastructure and the Administrative Court. How will the thesis be protected that only the costs of Port Infrastructure are laid down in the amount of port charges, given that we ourselves bet in the Law an unconventional cost, as is the direct financing of the Sea Administration by the Port Infrastructure? For us, all this creates the opportunity for the Port Infrastructure's tariff to fall into court and, from now on, to lead to a lot of other problems. Therefore, our hope is that between first and second reading this text will either be cleared, or it will be dropped at all, and so common sense will prevail. Thank you for your attention. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yeah, we're holding back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u68	Thank you, dear Mr. Tishev. Thanks for the clarification, and it's important to me. Are there any lines to this statement, colleagues? I can't see. Any other speeches? On the left, I don't see any, I don't see any other parts of the room. We close the discussion on the bill and move on to the vote. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 002-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 May 2020. While the vote is under way, I would like to warn that, after the break, we will continue with point nine: a report on the Commission's activities for protection against discrimination for 2019. Vote 128 MPs: for 85, against none, abstention 43. The motion is accepted. Rest till 12:00 and, as I said, we'll proceed with point nine at 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u69	We will proceed with the hearing. REPORT ON THE COMMISSION'S DISCRIMINATION PROTECTION ACTION IN 2019 Report of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights.. Welcome, you have the floor, Mrs. Chekanska.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u70	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Before presenting the Report, I shall make a procedural proposal under art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to be admitted to the plenary to associate associate professor Dr. Ana Dzhumalieva, Chairman of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, and Associate Professor Dr. Baki Husseinov, Vice-President of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u71	I allow myself the vote on allowing us to do so once you read the report, as there is a risk that there are not enough colleagues in this House at the moment. With all due respect to the guests, but... In the meantime, I'll ask the Quaestors to invite the colleagues outside to come in. You may present the report, Mrs. Chekanska. During this time, enough colleagues will come to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u72	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe on a report on the Commission's action on protection against discrimination in 2019, No 020-00-7 submitted by the Commission for protection against discrimination on 27 March 2020. At a regular meeting held on 28 May 2020, the Commission on Religions and Human Rights discussed a Report on the activities of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination in 2019, No 020-00-7, submitted by the Commission for Protection against Discrimination on 27 March 2020. The meeting was attended by Assoc. The activity report of the Committee for 2019 submitted on the basis of art. 40, para. 5 of the Law on Protection against Discrimination was presented by the President "Assoc. Prof. Dr. Anna Dzhumalieva." It reflects the results achieved by the Commission as a body on equality, building and implementing national and international policies in the field of combating and preventing discrimination. The report on the activities of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination for 2019 traditionally focuses on the work of the jurors, takes into account the activities of the specialized and general administration and identifies some of the most important objectives and tasks. Prof. Dzhumalieva said that in 2019 the trend continues to increase the number of complaints and signals from citizens and legal entities. 921 complaints and signals were filed, 920 files were formed and independent legal assistance was provided to 1160 victims of discrimination. And the decisions reached mark their record over the years. They are 627, while for 2018 they are 511. It has been highlighted that self-examinations are also without analog in the history of the institution. In comparison with 2018 When there were 386, it was already 601 in 2019. Of these, a large part of them are related to the campaign implemented by the equality body "Accessive Bulgaria" in order to ensure the creation and maintenance of an accessible public environment for people with disabilities. Prof. Dzhumalieva drew attention to the role of regional representatives in the Commission's activities. At present, 24 offices have been opened in the district centres and another 4 are needed to implement the recommendations of the European Commission against racism and intolerance. The analysis of the practice and information received by regional representatives shows that in 2019 citizens' complaints about unequal treatment are in the field of education, health, employment, the provision of goods and services and others. Prof. Dzhumalieva pointed out a number of events and initiatives of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination in 2019 related to prevention and protection against discrimination. It shall inform in detail of the cooperation agreements signed by the institution both at national level and with bodies of international organisations with similar fields of activity. It also highlighted the many organised by the Commission for Protection against Discrimination training seminars and participations in international forums. In the subsequent discussion were raised questions by the MPs Violeta Zheleva and Valentina Naydenova. The questions were related to the reason for increasing the number of complaints, the sources of information on self-examinations, as well as the mechanisms for cooperation with national institutions and sharing the Commission's experience with our neighbouring countries. Prof. Dzhumalieva responded comprehensively, saying that the increase in complaints is the result of the preventive activities of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination and regional representatives, leading to greater awareness of their rights to citizens. It has been pointed out that this is also a sign of increased trust in the institution. As regards the sources of information on the Commission's self-examinations, it detailed the procedure. Good cooperation with the National Assembly, the Council of Ministers and the various ministries was also highlighted. Prof. Dzhumalieva said that she will continue to work to promote and share the best practices of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. Following the vote, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, with 13 votes in favour, 1 vote in opposition, without abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Report on the activities of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination in 2019, No 020-07 submitted by the Commission for Protection against Discrimination on 27 March 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u73	Thank you, dear Mrs. Chekanska. I will now put to the vote, made by Mrs. Chekan procedure for admission, to Ana Djumalieva and Baki Huseinov, Chairman and Vice-President of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. Please vote procedure. They voted 72 MPs: for 72, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests. I hope they heard Mrs. Chekanska's report. And now Mrs. Chekanska will present the draft decision before we go into discussion. Here you go, Mrs. Chekanska.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u74	Thank you. Project! DECISION on the 2019 Anti-Discrimination Commission's Activity Survey The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 40, para. 5 of the Law on Protection against Discrimination HAS DECIDED Adopts the Report on the Commission's activities for protection against discrimination for 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Chekanska. We're going to a discussion on the Project. Is there anyone who would like to speak? Here you go. I'll give our guests a chance, too, if they're willing to say something about the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u76	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I am expressing the position of the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs. We believe that, as the Commission works for protection against discrimination, it is an unnecessary and unnecessary body. Why? Because, in fact, very often the object of discrimination, i.e. the investigation of complaints against discrimination, became precisely representatives of the discriminated against. I'm going to give you some examples of journalistic practice, for example, journalists who share and have investigated that a certain minority group does not pay electricity and water, are actually subject to an investigation because they violated the rights of this minority group just because they told the truth. Traditionally, the parliamentary group of the United Patriarchs will abstain from this report. We believe that the Commission for Protection against Discrimination should rather have a regulatory function, as for example the Council for Electronic Media and be able to impose administrative penalties, but not to perform the functions of a quasi-judicial judicial authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u77	Thank you, dear Mrs. Tsvetkova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. Mrs. Dzhumalieva, you have the floor on the Commission's activity report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u78	Thank you for your attention. I wasn't going to take the floor today, but given what I said. Firstly, in my mind, the fact that the political formation itself, which made a speech, also has a representative in the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. It is very easy to say, especially in these difficult times, that someone is useless and must be shut down or should not exist. I have always been of the opinion and of the opinion that the more human rights organizations, not only representatives of civil society, but also of the state there are in a democratic state, as is our country, it is a guarantee and an indication that of the Bulgarian citizens and not only of the Bulgarian citizens, but also of all persons who are in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, their rights will be protected while they are in our territory. I would also like to say that, indeed, in Bulgaria, we have been worried about the fact that two years ago we came up with a declaration against hate speech and against Ad hominem attacks, but we must not forget that freedom of speech goes as far as the rights of other citizens who are in our country should not be violated. With regard to various reproaches that have been made in relation to the fact that, in relation to journalists or media who have expressed a certain opinion or certain attitudes towards a particular, I stress, ethnic non-minor group, because in Bulgaria they are recognized and spoken of different ethnicities and not minorities, we believe that, firstly, I do not know how familiar you are, but we are also a regulatory body and we are very similar to quasi judicial jurisdiction. And any decision of the Commission on protection against discrimination is in fact an individual administrative act which is subject to judicial appeal before the respective administrative court of the Republic of Bulgaria. I believe that it is unacceptable for me, but, of course, everyone has the right to different assessments, everyone has different views on things and at all about what is happening or how a certain person works, and it is also an authority, as is the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, in the Republic of Bulgaria. I cannot agree with the fact that nowadays, since the Commission for Protection against Discrimination is one of the equality bodies I am talking at European level, I am not only talking about our territory, now that there is more than 15 years of practice, we should be proud that we have one of the best laws to protect against discrimination in Europe. Many other equality bodies, including ombudsmen, have visited the Commission for Protection against Discrimination in order to draw experience and practice from our institution and from our legislation. We have always said that we have one of the best laws to protect against discrimination, and to say that an institution should be closed down or that it is useless?! Yes, everyone can have criticisms, we will agree with some of the criticisms or we can agree, or we can discuss them, but, excuse me, I will tell you only one thing: the Bulgarian Commission for Protection against Discrimination if you open and look at art. 4, para. 2 of the Law on Protection against Discrimination, you will see that we are the only equality body across Europe, which examines 19 signs of protection against discrimination, which are not listed in full, and is explicitly written: other signs included in other laws or international treaties to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a country. So I cannot agree with such a statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Jumalieva. At this point, we are not discussing the closure of the Commission, so... Are there any other speeches, colleagues? Here's your speech, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u80	Mr. Chairman, I was hoping that you would make a comment to Mrs. Dzhumalieva for teaching the MP what views he has and what views he has on various issues, because it is the right of every Member of the National Assembly to express opinions, opinions and to judge what is right for the state and what is wrong. And it is not right for a chairman of a state commission here to teach a MP! Regarding the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, our opinion of IMRO has always been that such a commission should not exist because there is a Bulgarian court. There is a Law on discrimination and a Bulgarian court and all citizens who for some reason feel discriminated against can seek their rights in the Bulgarian court. Why should there be another unnecessary state body that has even regional structures all over the country to seek discrimination? Because they're looking for discrimination. In this way, our country also eases not only in front of the European Union, but also in front of the whole world, drawing out some thousands, thousands, thousands of cases of discrimination that are being sought in order for the Commission and regional structures to have a job and exposing our own country to this committee. I have nothing against anyone who is discriminated against as ethnicity, whether as religious views, whether by any other sign, we have a law to protect. Why does there have to be an imaginary committee? To have people at work to receive salaries to teach the MPs what to say, what not to say and what opinion to have?! That's why it's always been our view that this is an unnecessary organ. There is a Bulgarian court and there every Bulgarian citizen can seek his rights. Not to mention that over the years, if we take all the reports back and check all the decisions of this committee, how many have fallen in the court, there must be two thirds, if not 90%. So this shows this organ's futility. People then go back to court and tear down these decisions because in the Bulgarian court there are ultimately judges who are competent and can look at the laws while in the Commission... Yes, there is a representative of the United Patriarchs. We've sent him there to have a vision, of course, because the signals we've received over the years about what's going on inside this committee have in no way liked us. That is why we really believe that the right decision that the Bulgarian National Assembly can take is that this committee is simply to be closed and to have justice and order in the Bulgarian court, as for all other citizens, when they have any requirements for certain rights being violated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-03.u81	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. However, let me point out that Mrs. Dzhumalieva did not deny your right to have this opinion, but simply disagreed with him, which, I suppose, is not unexpected for you. If there are no other speeches, I shall close the debate. We are going to vote on proposals from Mrs. Chekanska Project for a decision on the Review on the activities of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination for 2019. Please, vote procedure. Vote 105 MPs: 93 against 11, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. With this, honourable Members, we have exhausted the agenda for today. The next regular plenary session shall be from 9:00 on 4 June 2020. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
