ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members, I will present to your attention a draft programme for the work of the National Assembly for March 18, 2020, which was discussed by the Conference of Presidents. I will now introduce to you the points for which we have united to enter the Programme for this week: "1." First vote on the Draft Law on Measures during the emergency situation, announced by the National Assembly Decision of 13 March 2020, importers. sveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs, 16 March 2020. 2. Draft Decision on a moratorium on the suspension of the supply of electricity, heat, water and telecommunications services for domestic consumption due to the non-payment of due accounts, importers, importers, Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, 16 March 2020. 3. Second vote on the Draft Law on Measures during the emergency situation, announced by the National Assembly Decision of 13 March 2020, adopted on the first vote of 19 March 2020, importers Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs, 16 March 2020. Point 1 for Friday, 20 March 2020 4. Parliamentary control. Please vote. They voted 209 MPs: 202 against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, I inform you that in connection with the emergency situation introduced in the country, Bulgarian national television has a commitment on BNT-2 and BNT-4 to broadcast videos to support the distance learning of Bulgarian students. This is why parliamentary control on 20 March 2020 is broadcast on BNT-3. Bills and draft decisions entered into force from 11 to 17 March 2020: Draft Law on the ratification of the Sixth Additional Protocol to the Agreement on the Multinational Peace Forces in South East Europe, importing the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Defence is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft Bill for suspension of time limits for civil, administrative, criminal and enforcement proceedings during the emergency situation announced by the National Assembly by decision of 13 March 2020 on the entire territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, importer. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft of the measures during the emergency situation, announced by the National Assembly's decision of 13 March 2020, importing Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Health, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. Draft Decision on a moratorium on the suspension of the supply of electricity, heat, water and telecommunications services for domestic consumption due to non-payment of due accounts, importers, importers, Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Messages. The Annual Activity Report of the State Agency was submitted to the National Assembly in 2019. The report has a level of classification for security of information. It is located in the Register of the National classified information, Department of Information Security. "Knyaz Alexander I", second floor, room 280. It is granted to the Commission for control of the security services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the passage through the airspace and the residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of an aircraft with its crew from the Air Force of Ukraine. The plane will fly from Ukraine to the Hazemite Kingdom of Jordan and back in order to transport special production. The authorisation is valid for the period from 17 to 23 March 2020. The notification was received on 16 March 2020 with entry No 903-09-24 and was submitted to the Defence Commission. In the National Assembly on the basis of art. 133, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act were received: Report on the implementation of the Ministry of Justice's programming budget for the period from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2019; Summary of the Report on the implementation of the programming budget of the State Agency The detailed report is located in the Register of the National classified information, Department of Information Security. "Knyaz Alexander I", second floor, room 280. The reports shall be made available to the Budget and Finance Committee and to the relevant portfolio committees and shall be available to the Members of the National Assembly's Library, with the exception of the parts of them which are classified with levels of security. The last message: "Inflation and Consumer Price Indexes for February 2020" was received by the National Statistical Institute Information on the main results of the monitoring of the labour force in 2019. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to the first item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION ON THE MEASURES ON THE TIME OF THE EXCLUSION, NOTIFICED BY THE DECISION OF THE PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING OF 13 MARCH 2020 INVOLVERS THE COLOUR OF CARAYANCHEVA AND THE GROUP OF PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES, 16 MARCH 2020 Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, today's program, as follows: 1, so on and so on. 2 is extremely important, which is why we propose that the discussion on these points be broadcast directly on BNT and BNR. What the Bulgarians need at such a time is to be informed. Reports on points 1 and 2 will be read. They need to see the direction to which the legislation of the Republic of Bulgaria is moving, as well as the possible decisions adopted, so I suggest that when examining points 1 and 2, there should be a direct broadcast on BNT and BNR. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u3	Thank you, Mr. Popov. I put to the vote Mr. Popov's proposal for a direct broadcast at the first and second points. [[Noise and lines.]] I've already announced that the broadcast will be on BNT-3, as BNT-2 is broadcasting the lessons for the children. They voted 205 MPs: 183, against 2, abstention 20. The motion is accepted. Mr. Ivanov had a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! I'd like to make a procedural proposal. in relation to the epidemiological situation throughout the country. We all come from our constituencies, where we communicate with many people, and here we sit almost 20 cm from each other. I propose, so that we can preserve our health and so that we can be effective in our work in the National Assembly, first, if there is a chance, that all of us here can put on a protective mask... [[Loud noise and lines.]] Wait a minute! I know that's the reaction! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u5	Wait for the procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u6	If I may speak. This one first. Second, if you accept it... Here we see that we are discussing topics of extreme importance. We have all given biometrics in the National Assembly to vote, and we put our finger on it, you see how many times a day. From a hygienic point of view, we put our finger, we touch our face, through our fingers, through our hands, anyone will accidentally or otherwise touch, for example, our mouth, we can actually carry an infection, so my suggestion is to consider removing biometrics while there is this epidemic. This is what I suggest if you agree, and also the Conference of Presidents to discuss it. It may not be put to the vote now, but let this be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. We'll debate it at the Chairman's Council. [[Noise and lines.]] It's more of a non-procedure... We're not voting. This is just Mr. Ivanov's proposal, which we will discuss at the Chairman's Council. Here you go, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u8	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, my procedure is to extend the deadline for proposals between first and second readings on the National Institute of Meteorology Act No 002-01-4, adopted on the first vote on 26 February 2020. I propose that the deadline be extended to the maximum.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. Please vote on the procedure so made to extend the deadline for proposals between first and second readings. 195 MPs voted: 190 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. We're moving on to reading the reports. The first report belongs to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova, to introduce us to the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u10	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen of ministers! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law on Measures during the emergency situation, announced by decision of 13 March 2020 of the National Assembly, No 054-01-24, submitted by Tsveta Valcheva Karayancheva and a group of MPs on 16 March 2020. At its extraordinary meeting held on 17 March 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a bill on measures during the emergency situation, announced by decision of the National Assembly on 13 March 2020, No 054-01-24, submitted by Tsveta Valcheva Karayancheva on 16 March 2020. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Danail Kirilov, Minister; Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov, Deputy Minister; Mr. Lyubomir Talev, Director of the Department of Law and Mr. Alexander Stefanov, State Expert at the Department of Law and Mr. Alexander Stefanov; - The Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Ivan Geshev, Prosecutor General, and Mrs. Krasimira Filipova, Deputy Prosecutor General; - Ministry of Environment and Water - Mr. Emil Dimitrov, Minister; - Ministry of Internal Affairs Mrs. Rositsa Grudeva, Director of Legal and Normal Activities (CEO); Mrs. Vladislava Radonova, Senior Expert Directorate of Migration (MI) and Mr. Tsvetomir Panchev, Head of Legal Services and Administrative Force Measures at the Directorate of the Bulgarian Identity Documents. - the Ministry of Economy, Mrs. Iliana Ilieva, Deputy Director-General of the Directorate-General for European Competitiveness, and Mrs. Evelina Zaharieva, Head of the Directorate-General for Competitiveness; - The Supreme Council of Laws.. Ms. Ralitsa Negentsova, Chairman, and Mrs. Valya Gigova, Member; - Confederation of Employers and Industrialists in the Republic of Bulgaria - Mr. Evgeny Ivanov, Executive Director and member of the Management Board. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Ms. Anna Alexandrova, who pointed out that this bill aims to settle the exceptional measures in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria to protect, limit and overcome the effects of the spread and infection with the virus of COVID-19 for the period from 13 March 2020 until the end of the emergency situation. Anti-epidemic measures shall be introduced by prohibiting visits to various public events and mass events. The aim of the bans is to implement the recommendations of the National Operational Headquarters for Social Distance. It is proposed that all employers, depending on the specifics and opportunities of the work concerned, are to introduce a remote form of work for their employees, establish part-time, use of paid or unpaid annual leave. Changes in labour law also include an opportunity for the employer to be entitled to grant the paid annual leave to the employee and without his consent, including one who has not acquired 8 months of service. If a pregnant, breast-feeding, single parent, employee with 50 or more per cent incapacity or another protected under the Labour Code, he himself requests leave in an emergency, the employer is obliged to resolve it. Ms. Alexandrova noted that the possibility of part or all civil servants working remotely in a home environment is being introduced and suggests that the managing authorities of the European Structural and Investment Funds should be entitled to unilaterally amend grant agreements according to the need for crisis measures, including increasing the amount of agreed grant assistance. Changes to the Social Security Code ensure the possibility of exercising insurance rights and guarantee the right to monetary benefits, benefits and pensions of citizens. The proposals in the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents and the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria suggest extending the validity of documents issued to foreigners and citizens of the European Union and the validity of the allowed long stay of foreigners. Next, the Draft Law provides that, until the end of the emergency situation, all procedural time limits for pending judicial, arbitration, administrative and enforcement proceedings shall cease to exist, except those in criminal proceedings. The imposition of bank accounts on natural persons, postures on wages and pensions, as well as the execution of inventory of movable and immovable property owned by citizens shall be suspended. All announced procedures on public sale and ownership of state and private judicial contractors shall be terminated and it shall be regulated that, after the emergency situation has been terminated, such proceedings will be formed and announced again. The notary certifications are also restricted and only emergency and emergency certifications will be allowed, and the Notary Chamber will be required to provide at least one duty notary for the area concerned, subject to sanitary and hygienic requirements. The Law also provides for amendments to the Penal Code, according to which doctors and medical persons who do not help patients during an epidemic, pandemic or emergency related to deaths will be punished by probation within one year or with a fine of 300 to 1000 BGN. It is also available to supplement art. 326, para. 1 of the Criminal Code, incriminating the transmission of false information about the spread of contagious disease. On the bill received positive opinions from the Bulgarian Industrial Association and the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria. Members of the National Assembly Krum Zarkov, Hamid Hamid, Krasimir Tsipov, Philip Popov, Alexander Ivanov, Yavor Notev and Nadia Klisurska took part in the discussion. The Prosecutor General said that the situation is urgent and adequate and timely measures should be taken at the moment, urging all excursions abroad, international human transportation and the travel of large groups to be stopped. He expressed his support for the proposed amendments to the Criminal Code and stressed that the transmission of false information on the spread of contagious disease should be criminalised as this could lead to the collapse of whole industries and the structures of the state and the text is extremely important. Minister Kirilov noted that there is probably something to be preciseed by the texts of the Bill, but we must comply with the speed and urgency of the measures to be taken. He also stressed that there are a number of proposals from different ministries, which, if the MPs consider, can be proposed for discussion between the first and second votes. Minister Dimitrov noted the need for adoption between the first and second reading of an exception to the application of the Public Procurement Act when awarding activities in the disposal of hazardous and hospital waste in relation to the existing pesticide problem and the lack of sufficient incinerators in Bulgaria. Members of parliament Krum Zarkov, Philip Popov and Nadia Klisurska pointed out the need for legislative proposals between first and second reading to introduce additional measures to refine individual provisions in the Bill, noting that there are no measures regarding deferred payments, the ban on exclusion of telecommunications, compensatory measures for closed facilities and tax policy in crisis mode. Mr. Hamid Hamid pointed out that the DPS parliamentary group will support the Bill and will make proposals between the two readings related to the introduction of more restrictive measures, such as the exclusion of transactions with property rights, constructive notary acts and others. Mr. Krasimir Tzipov noted that the executive experts continue to work on changing a number of laws, expressing the hope that when voting on the Law in plenary there will be unanimity in making a decision. Mr. Alexander Ivanov pointed out that the bill reflects the most urgent measures, and regarding the change in tax laws they will be proposed as soon as possible. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 15 votes for the European Parliament, without a resolution of 13 March 2020 of the National Assembly, No 054-01-24, submitted by Tsveta Valcheva Karayancheva and a group of MPs on 16 March 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u11	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. The report of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy follows. Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Draft Law on Measures during the emergency situation, announced by decision of 13 March 2020 of the National Assembly, No 054-01-24, submitted by Tsveta Valcheva Karayancheva and a group of MPs on 16 March 2020. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a meeting held on 17 March 2020 examined and discussed the Draft Law on Measures during the emergency situation announced by a decision of 13 March 2020 of the National Assembly. The meeting was attended by Denitsa Sacheva, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, and Lazar Lazarov, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Galya Zhelyazkova. The aim of the bill is to arrange for exceptional measures in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria to protect, limit and overcome the effects of the spread and infection with the virus of COVID-19 for the period from 13 March 2020 until the end of the emergency situation. The proposed changes to the Labour Code provide for special measures that employers and employees can take to limit the collection of a large number of people in one place in the event of a declared emergency. In order to implement these measures, regulatory change is needed by creating opportunities for employers: - entrust workers with domestic work and/or distance work; - suspend the work at the establishment; - establish part-time at the establishment; - to provide unilaterally the use of paid and/or unpaid annual leave. On the other hand, certain categories of workers and employees are given the opportunity to enjoy, at their request, paid or unpaid leave, in which case the employer will be obliged to authorise it. The main objective of the measures is to promote a change in the organisation of work in enterprises so as not to put an end to their activities, but to workers working from their homes. Employers will therefore be able, in a declared emergency situation, to unilaterally modify the place of employment of employees without having to sign an additional agreement to the employment contract. Where the work of the undertaking or part thereof has ceased in an emergency because of an order issued by a competent state authority, but the employees do not receive paid annual leave from the employer, the employees will be entitled to compensation. The amount of compensation shall be 50 per cent of the gross wage but not less than 75 per cent of the minimum wage established for the country. The compensation is due by the employer to the employee or employee. In the case where no annual leave has been paid in the event of a declared emergency and the employer has decided to terminate the work of the undertaking or part thereof without any prohibition to carry out such an activity imposed by a government order, the employer shall be obliged to pay the full amount of the gross wage to the employee. Changes to the Social Security Code are also proposed in order to avoid the possibility of the insured persons and pensioners being deprived of the possibility to exercise their social security rights in a period of time, thus losing them. It is envisaged that, for the period of the emergency situation, the non-exportation within the time limit of officials who issue orders and decisions concerning the right to monetary benefits, benefits and pensions for reasons due to the emergency situation shall not be regarded as a silent refusal within the meaning of art. 58, para. 1 of the Administrative-Processional Code. The bill also proposes measures related to the Social Assistance Act and the Law on Persons with Disabilities. The Commission received the opinions of the Bulgarian Industrial Association and the Confederation of Labour. Both organisations support the measures proposed by the Bill but appeal that, despite the emergency situation, the legislative texts must be carefully refined in order not to achieve an effect other than goals. Both organizations propose specific texts to be reflected in the Bill. The discussion was attended by the MPs: Georgi Gokov, Svetlana Angelova, Julian Papashimov, Hasan Ademov, Nikolai Ivanov, Kalin Popovski, Nadia Klisurska, Rumen Genov and Vesela Lecheva. Most of the MPs stressed that the bill is necessary, the legal measures taken are timely and are in response to the changing situation of the emergency situation. Perhaps over time, the need to adopt more legal measures to respond to the development of the crisis will be reached. Everyone is convinced that the situation is dynamic and needs to be monitored daily. The important conclusion was drawn that a fundamental principle which must be respected by the whole of society is the principle of solidarity and mutual sharing of responsibilities. There were also concerns that the structure of the Law was not good and there would be difficulties in implementing it. In addition, serious amendments to labour and insurance legislation must be further developed into new additions and amendments, some of them necessarily agreed with employers' and trade unions. It is also important not to rush ahead with thoughtless decisions so that the main purpose of the Law can be fulfilled, namely to protect people's lives and health and to prevent a deep, social and economic crisis. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 13 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote a bill on measures during the emergency situation, announced by decision of 13 March 2020 of the National Assembly, No 054-01-24, submitted by Tsveta Valcheva Karayancheva on 16 March 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. We continue with the Internal Security and Public Order Committee report. You have the floor, dear Mr. Nunev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill on measures during the emergency situation, announced by decision of 13 March 2020 by the National Assembly, No 054-01-24, submitted by the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs on 16 March 2020. At its extraordinary meeting held on 17 March 2020, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft of the Measures during the emergency situation, announced by the National Assembly on 13 March 2020, No 054-01-24, submitted by the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs on 16 March 2020. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Internal Affairs Rositsa Grudeva, Director of Legal and Normal Activities, Vladislava Radonova, Chief Expert Directorate of Migration, Tsvetomir Panchev, Head of the Sector Legal Service and measures for administrative coercion. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov. In its presentation, the importer noted that this Draft Law aims to settle the exceptional measures in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria to protect, limit and overcome the effects of the spread and infection with the COVID-19 virus for the period from 13 March 2020 until the end of the emergency situation. The proposed provisions provide for changes to a number of regulations. The draft law supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents provides for an extension of the period of documents issued to foreigners and citizens of the European Union, which is extremely important and will reduce the accumulation of foreigners and citizens of the European Union in the places for their administrative service. In this way, the participation of the visated category of third-country nationals and European citizens in the civil turnover will not be difficult, and they will be able to certify their authorised residence with those types of documents on the territory of the country for the period of extension of their validity. The extension of their validity by 6 months, which exceeds their initial period of validity, will significantly limit the likelihood of the accumulation of many people in one place that would pose a potential risk of spreading the contagious disease and a real risk to those authorised to reside in the country and to those working in the places for the administrative service of foreigners. The Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria also provides that a long-term resident foreigner in the Republic of Bulgaria is to be treated as an interruption for the period of the declared state of emergency if he does not submit an application within the 14-day period. The legislative amendment is imposed in relation to the restrictions imposed around the world on travel of foreigners and their inability to enter the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. The proposals are aimed at enabling foreigners and citizens of the European Union to reside in the Republic of Bulgaria on a legitimate basis, without creating a sense of uncertainty and tension regarding the expiry of their issued documents certifying their right of residence. The Law on Supplement to the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents provides that the period of validity of ID cards and driving licences for a motor vehicle with expiry of validity within the period from the entry into force of the Law to 31 October 2020 is to be extended by 6 months. Within that period of extension, these ID cards will be a valid identification document and driving licences will be valid for individual driving certification documents, only within the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. In this way the participation of Bulgarian citizens in the civil turnover will not be difficult, and they will be able to be legitimized with these types of personal documents on the territory of the country for the period of extension of their validity. The proposed change will contribute to avoiding the accumulation of large groups of citizens whose identity cards and driving licences expire on 31 October 2020, in the administrative services units for receiving applications for the issue of Bulgarian personal documents. The provision of administrative services for the issue of Bulgarian personal documents will not stop their work regime, so those citizens will be able to request the issue of new documents before the expiry of the extended 6 months period. The expected results of the proposed supplement of the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents and the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria are related to ensuring timely protection of Bulgarian citizens from the spread of the COVID-19 virus. On the basis of the vote held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 12 votes in favour and 5 votes in abstain proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill on measures during the emergency situation, announced by decision of 13 March 2020 of the National Assembly, No 054-01-24, submitted by the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs on 16 March 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Nunev. Report on the first vote of the Committee on Health. You have the floor, dear Mrs Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u16	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law on Measures during the emergency situation, announced by the National Assembly Decision of 13 March 2020, No 054-01-24, submitted by Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs on 16 March 2020. At its extraordinary meeting held on 17 March 2020, the Committee on Health examined and discussed a bill on measures during the emergency situation announced by the National Assembly Decision of 13 March 2020, No 054-01-24, submitted by Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs on 16 March 2020. The meeting was attended by Deputy Minister of Health Dr. Boyko Penkov. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by one of the importers, Mr. Borislav Borisov, who informed the MPs that the current legislative initiative is related to the decision adopted by the National Assembly on 13 March 2020, declaring a state of emergency on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria due to the pandemic of COVID-19 virus. He explained that the proposed provisions provide for changes in a number of regulations, with the expected results of their implementation related to ensuring timely protection of citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria from the spread of the COVID-19 virus and limiting the social, economic and financial consequences for citizens. The Members of the National Assembly raised specific questions regarding the regulatory changes in question and strongly objected to the proposed addition in art. 141 of the Penal Code, since the wording of the provision is untimely, vague and is subject to interpretation. It was stressed that this proposal should be removed from the contents of the Bill. The members of the Health Commission agreed that the proposed amendments and additions should be adopted as soon as possible. On the basis of the discussion held and the vote taken by 14 votes for the European Parliament, without abstention and 7 votes, the Committee on Health proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill on measures during the emergency situation, announced by decision of 13 March 2020 of the National Assembly, No 054-01-24, submitted by Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs on 16 March 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u17	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches. Oh, my God, Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! At the end of last week, you agreed to impose a state of emergency in Bulgaria. This emergency, however, affects mostly the ordinary person, the small business, because the banks are open, the insurance companies are open, but unfortunately a large part of the Bulgarian citizens are encouraged, they are insisted on all factors, analysts, media to stay at home. So it turns out that this state of emergency is mostly affecting the average person. Some cynically would say that the state of emergency is a virus that goes around, affects economies, affects businesses, affects banks, but if the person gets hurt, as they say, it won't make sense to me to have an economy and to have banks. There will just be no one to take advantage of these services or who to use this system. The extraordinary situation has limited the average person, and in the media we see a great deal of concern that is expressed, for the banks, for the economy. This is also enshrined in the bill that we are now looking at. Yes, there are some measures that are mentioned, possibly not to take the property, the legal proceedings of alienation and so on. But the person who stays at home and is constantly exposed by national media and public factors to stay at home, this person should stay at home, but this person should pay bills. Imagine a family with two children, which is not enough money anyway, and now, when it is reduced and when the work he needs to exercise is not there, the situation becomes really very critical. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 48 of the Constitution is written that citizens have the right to work and that the state cares about creating conditions for the use of this right, and now we see the restriction of that right. Fighting this virus has been used as a front-row experience from abroad for restrictions, for social isolation. Every citizen who's come into this social service to stay home, not to contact so many people, not to go to work and exercise the right to work, and therefore not to feed your family, each person must be compensated in some way. After all, yes, open banks and closed workers at home. As MPs of all of us, it should be clear that the Bulgarian economy, unfortunately, is so built, so it is done that a month per month is worked, from salary to salary. Breaking up even for a week of work is fatal for many people. This is the Social Minister, and I'm addressing her as well. Medical headquarters were created to combat the virus, crisis centers and so on. The proposal of the "Attack" is to create such a headquarters at the Social Ministry, which will really assess the impact the ordinary worker suffers from the measures we introduce. This has to be done. There should be trade unions involved because, unfortunately, in their media appearances in recent days, I have not seen concern, I have not seen what is being applied in a number of European countries, to be proposed by the trade unions. That's why we from Ataka will propose it. We propose to drop out and not to pay interest on the principal of the loans taken by citizens and by small companies during the emergency situation. We will introduce such a law between first and second readings and we hope that it will be adopted on Friday. In Italy, the Italian government will introduce the suspension of the payment of taxes and interest on loans to Italian citizens and small companies. In England, a number of banks say they will introduce a mortgage vacation. Trump announced yesterday that he would pour 300 billion. The dollar, defending the regular worker. This bill has not even entered the 60 per cent production guaranteeing the state to guarantee the salaries of the people who will suffer from these measures. Stop worrying about the big capital, about the supranational capital. We need to worry about the Bulgarian national capital, and we know perfectly well that these are the people and citizens in Bulgaria. That's our capital. In conclusion, to summarize. We offer a drop-out from the Ataka and not to pay interest on the principal of the loans taken by citizens and by small companies. I address the government of GERB, NFSB and VMRO: care for your constituents.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Chukolov. - What's the line? I can't see. We are continuing the debate. Mr. Simeonov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The Group of the United Patriarchs will support the Law at first reading, but from now on I would like to warn you that this law may have to undergo quite serious changes, starting from the title of the Act on Measures during a state of emergency announced by the National Assembly Decision on 13 March 2020. Everywhere after that, it is said that these changes will act until the state of emergency has ceased. In my opinion, it is correct that the name should be: the Law on Measures during a state of emergency, announced by Decision on 13 March to 13 April, because what happens after 13 April, is not clear? If necessary, a decision to extend the emergency situation shall be taken again. No one can guarantee that this will be possible at all, he is then expected to be the peak of this epidemic. Let's go. We believe that there are a lot of unnecessary texts in this law that are simply put in order to have some type of book or legal body in this law. For example, personally, I do not see the point of inserting the entire order of the Ministry of Health, which has literally been copied into art. 2, since so far these activities are being carried out without law and are not illegal, as they are ordered by the Ministry of Health in emergency mode. More than that, in para. 2 of art. 2 For example, it is said that, if necessary, on the recommendation of the National Operational Headquarters, created by order of the Prime Minister, by order of the Minister of Health, further serious anti-epidemic measures can be established. Once they can be established, this text negates everything that was built before that. In other words, it reserves the right of the National Operations Headquarters, and that is quite right, to take measures, to amend them, to strengthen them and so on. We believe that this law should be made purely clear and free for institutions to do their jobs, and in this case instead of listing and entering into details, which, in my opinion, is not the work of a law text, it can generally be determined that the National Assembly gives the right to restrict and suspend the activity, as is the case for establishments, establishments, educational institutions and bodies, and activities related to this mass events, necessarily including religious events, we should not do that we do not see the same spoon being put into the mouth of this and that of that and then talking that it was sacred and would not contribute to spreading the disease, and so on and so on health activities, traveling,. I'm throwing it as the most general text that can be placed in this whole art. 2, and get rid of all other things, and you will necessarily have to bring in something else. The right to limit the free movement of people, motor vehicles, including the introduction of a curfew, because we see countries that are late after Bulgaria with the introduction of an emergency, apply these measures a little panicky, a little to fire, but correct. So with one general text I think the whole art. 2, I think, and Article 2. Three, they can go outside this law, just go away. Clearly and simply give the right of the institutions to be free in taking measures as in a situation of war the National Assembly does not determine the time, scale and direction of military operations, and this responsibility is assigned to the headquarters, which is responsible for the operation of the armed forces. We are, as we have all said several times, in a state of war with an invisible enemy, so the situation is almost identical. It should also be touched, in my opinion, by the members who are related to public-selling procedures, in possession and so on, the suspension and imposition of props and bank accounts of individuals. What if these props provide alimony, what happens? And if this state of emergency lasts for half a year, does that mean that children will be left without alimony, for example, from separate families? And so on. All these texts should not be so detailed, but simply the National Assembly should adopt, vote on general arrangements, allowing for freedom of action accordingly. There's no way we can't let that happen. The energy sector within three days of the entry into force of this law, the medical institutions, all telecommunications operators and state institutions shall carry out an extraordinary inspection of the technical condition of the energy sites...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................! And in para. 3: In the event that non-compliance with the regulatory requirements has been identified, the persons shall take action. This is done by one order of the Minister of Energy. Not to mention that, in the text itself, it is recognised that, in the event of discrepancies, the case of non-compliance with the regulatory requirements is commented, but since there are discrepancies, they must be removed on the relevant documents and order which has been regulated to date. I see this as filling, too. I don't want to talk about the Labor Code at all. Not all texts, but 90% of the texts related to the Labour Code, represent nothing but................................................................................................... Well, they can take leave now, they can cancel all these rights, and they have them right now. I don't see why it should be described! Purely and simply to demonstrate some concern about the employee's rights. Apparently, these texts were inserted by the unions, and I don't think it's appropriate for them to be here. In the undertaking or in its unit, the employer may establish for the entire period of declared emergency or part of that period part-time................................................................................................................... the employer the employer the employer the employer the employer the employer the employer the employer the employer the employer the employer can establish the employer can establish for the person...............................................................................................................! And a lot of other ones. Is it necessary to allow an annual leave or unpaid leave.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................! I don't understand it. How long has the worker been pregnant, Mr. Ademov? If it's 15 days old, and she's the only cashier in a company, people don't get paid?! It's just some crazy lyrics in here. I am thinking about what I said at the beginning, in general, to create certain rights of institutions to take appropriate measures for a state of emergency. But, I repeat, in general, we will support at first reading with the introduction of corrections and with a request and an appeal to all of you, colleagues, to try to simplify this law, to reduce it to a more limited number of texts, a little, but clearly and categorically empowering the institutions concerned to react in the emergency situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. Are there lines? There are no lines. You have the floor, dear Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of parliament! In the reasons of the proposed bill, it is written that the aim of the bill is to establish exceptional measures to protect, limit and overcome the effects of the crisis. Three keywords that are extremely important to protect, limit and overcome the consequences. I understand that the expectations for this bill are extremely tight. All problems arising from the crisis are expected to be resolved by this law. Obviously, this cannot happen because the processes are extremely dynamic and there is no way to predict from now on what is to come. I would therefore like this bill to look more like a framework bill, which gives opportunities for further solutions, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, resolves the most general principled situations relating to the fight to overcome the consequences of this crisis. There are two important principles in the Bill that pass as a kind of thread throughout the Bill. First of all, this is the idea of establishing the so-called social isolation. This is only the proven effective and efficient way to combat society with the coronavirus. There is no more reliable and effective way than social isolation to deal with this problem. This idea therefore goes through almost most of the texts of the Bill. Next, the other principle is extremely important and this principle is that all measures go through legislative decisions. You know that our President Mr Karadaye last week, when a state of emergency was established, said that even under conditions of emergency the parliament is the constitutional authority and Bulgaria continues to be a parliamentary republic, which means that all legislative decisions pass through the National Assembly. I would also like to say a few words about the general philosophy of this bill, because it is extremely important. It is situated in the field of solidarity. This is extremely important, because it is precisely in the field of solidarity that responsibility must be shared between the state and its institutions, starting from the funds of state social security, from the National Health Insurance Fund, going through the state budget and, last but not least, through European solidarity, looking for sharing of responsibilities between the state, employers, employees, including European solidarity. I would like to remind you that the European Commission has proposed a 6 billion start-up, and now the last number that has been announced is 37 billion. EUR for the whole European Union and the allocated funds for Bulgaria are 814 million. EUR, in order to be able to pass on the fast track and reach the Member States, these proposals of the European Commission must be approved by the European Parliament and the Council of Ministers. This is the procedure, as you well know. I'd like to say a few words about what's on the table. I will not dwell on anti-epidemic measures relating to the order, in general, to the Minister of Health and to the Minister of Education. They're very clear now. It's obvious they have to go through legal measures to get into action. Next, regarding the introduction of remote and home work. It is true that in Bulgarian law the legal figure of distance and home work has long been established with a European directive. The opportunity to now offer and commit to everything above, does not depend on the will of the one who... When there is such an established opportunity, the employer may assign to be able to re-execute one of the basic principles of social isolation. Next, I would like to stress that the managing authorities of the operational programmes of the European Social Investment Fund are given the opportunity to increase operational autonomy. Operational programme management bodies, in addition to having greater operational autonomy, will also be able to modify grant contracts under simplified rules. This is extremely important because the managing authorities and the individual ministries that manage the operational programmes will have the opportunity to make flexible use of the funds of European funding, including through the mechanisms of the pre-location of financial resources. In this programme, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy will, for example, have the opportunity to finance medical professionals and doctors engaged on the front will have the opportunity to finance and further extend the patronage care for those who are in remote regions. With regard to changes to the Labour Code. It is true that these proposals, which are now being proposed, are in the Labour Code, but there are also some peculiarities. For example, by order of the employer to cease all activity of the undertaking, part of the undertaking or in individual jobs. Where there is an order of a state body or of the National Operational Headquarters to stop the activity of the individual undertaking, then the employer must necessarily not allow workers and employees in the undertaking concerned. I won't talk about part-time, it's established now. There is an interesting case here that relates to the employer's order or a state body. Where the activity of the undertaking is terminated, the employer shall be entitled to grant paid annual leave. There is also a slightly more special supplement here. I also think that there is an agreement between fellow importers and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy that unpaid leave is, moreover, limited, in this situation to drop out so that one can benefit from the solidarity of the state I was talking about at the beginning, it must also go through its own solidarity, in the face of the annual leave paid. If, with the current decisions, with the initial decisions, we exert pressure thanks to the demands of a large part of society on public finances, it is not known at the next stage what will happen. Therefore, the right position is to be more careful. Next, when it comes to the employer assigning the annual leave paid, there is also a reciprocal measure. The reciprocal measure is that when for the pregnant you talked about and those who are in advanced stage in vitro, this is specified in the Health Act, we say exactly how many months and how it should be, this is another topic, but the reciprocal measure is for six groups of vulnerable persons who, in times of crisis, may ask the employer to take paid annual leave and, notice, the employer has no right to refuse them this paid annual leave. I allow myself to propose to this measure, as an additional seven-month measure, both workers and employees who are over 60 years of age, because they are the vulnerable group and could benefit from this right to enjoy paid annual leave. Next, here is the most important decision to compensate employees' income in the following texts, which are in the Labour Code. Two are the hypotheses: one is the hypothesis when the enterprise is on the list. It is not noted here, but it should be noted which activities are, with the criteria of the Council of Ministers should be defined activities and businesses. I guess this is where the small and medium-sized business will enter, because it guarantees the largest employment in Bulgaria. The criteria of the Council of Ministers will determine the enterprises that will be closed or limited to their activities. When so, the bill proposes that workers and employees should be entitled to compensation of 50% of the gross salary. This is a text that is from the Crisis Counteraction Act, if I am not mistaken for the name, this text is extracted directly from there. I think there is no need for this text, and I am pleased that during the discussion in the Social Committee it was stated that the other approach will be adopted. It is to compensate by 60%, I stress the full amount of the insurance income for January and not the gross wage. This is an essential fact that must be noted: 60%, with the remaining 40% being the employer's obligation. Dear colleagues, in labour law and in contractual relations between workers and employees, there is a concept called corporate social responsibility. If employers want to keep their workers, quality workers without whom production cannot continue, of course they have to share their responsibility with the state, with workers, with employees and with employers. Next, there is another text: when the employer has decided to close the undertaking himself, then the payment of the gross salary is entirely at the expense of the employer himself. I will not dwell on the changes to the Code of Social Security and the Law on Persons with Disabilities. In the Social Assistance Act, the most important accent, the point there is related to extending the statutory deadlines. The Code of Social Security from Chapter IV to Chapter VIII lays down the rights of insured persons and pensioners. Rights, obligations and all time limits relating to the document turnover from the point of view of obtaining rights are linked there, so the framework is placed there. About the one asking the question: what's going on with the telk solutions? The answer is precisely in these texts and the answer is in what was stated that they will apply by the end of May and no one will lose their rights. And last but not least, I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to tell you that I welcome this proposal... The decision of the Health Commission on the introduction into the Penal Code of New Punishment for the people we expect to help Bulgarian citizens now seems to be nonsense. Congratulations on supporting the removal of this text. Thank you. Our parliamentary group will support the proposed project and we will make our proposals so that we can clear some of the texts that we think are unacceptable in this form.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. A line? Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Ademov, there are two main reasons among the otherwise extended and valuable exposé that we disagree with, and I wanted to make that line. You say two things that we think are the opposite. You say that this Law is important because all measures will have to be taken from here on by Law, but it is in this Law that the provision of para. 2 of art. 2, according to which, if necessary, on the recommendation of the National Operational Headquarters, the Minister of Health may establish further heavier measures. This, on the one hand, is unconstitutional and cannot continue to exist in the Law, but, on the other hand, is also the philosophy behind this law. His value of having it is largely corrupted by this text. But perhaps more importantly, because we are discussing at first reading the philosophy of the Law, in your opinion this philosophy is conducted through solidarity, we think it is the opposite. The philosophy of this Law is: Save yourself individually. Save yourself if you're a worker, we let you go, you spend your paid vacation, and you get better if you're an employer, you pay. Those measures, which were said that the state would take and stand with its weight to assist employers and workers, are not in this law. This solidarity is not signed. You're saying we don't know what's going to happen to the pressure on public finances? We cannot go through without pressure on public finances and this is not an element of populism, but of precision. Because we may not know what will happen to public finances, but we know very well what will happen to the private finances of the worker who lost his job or the little entrepreneur who closed his shop. Finally: you will support a law with a clear awareness that from today until Friday, when it will enter into force, no text will most likely be the same. In your Commission, Minister Sacheva said yesterday that he will review the texts under the Labour Code. In the Legal Commission, Minister Kirilov said that texts regarding deadlines and other important provisions will be reviewed and refined. That is, today you are voting on a law at first reading, which on Friday, or when we look at it at second reading, will probably have nothing to do with it. This is not at the height of the situation we are in, we can do better.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Another line? Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u26	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ademov, ministers and fellow MPs! On one point, which seems to me today is a central topic of the questioning the philosophy of the Bill. What do we want to achieve with this bill? A variety of definitions of the situation that we are in, including that we are in a state of war, have been said. From this tribune it should be clearly said that Bulgaria is not in a state of war, to all who believe that an analogy can be made between the current state and the state of war. What about the general purpose of such a bill, what should it be? Without violating constitutional order, ensuring the health and work of the holding, this is the philosophy, in general, of this bill. Reassociative relations, social justice must be taken into account in this bill. As the texts are currently scheduled, serious shortcomings can be found that are at the heart of our idea to abstain. But on the occasion of your speech, the creation of art. 120c to the Labour Code, in which he writes: Honourable Members, for all kinds of reasons, an employer may request to suspend the work of the undertaking, not only in relation to the epidemiological situation among workers, for all kinds of reasons. Moreover, there are undertakings that are relevant to national security, sectors that are relevant to national security! Many of you are familiar with this theme they work under all conditions. How can you leave such an important question to the employer's assessment? This is directly related to the operation of the holding. The work of undertakings cannot be stopped by one single act without the authority of the state of emergency, and it is not clear from this law who is the authority of the state of emergency! It should be the Council of Ministers, within the meaning of our decision from last week, but the Law does not show this. So, the philosophy of the Bill, Mr. Ademov is not clear. A sum of measures, rather eclectic measures, to hope that between the two readings, taking into account the position of the BSP, can be given a slightly more complete appearance of the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. Third line? Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u28	Don't use them for speeches!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u29	It's all by the book, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u30	Mr. Chairman, Mr. and Mrs. Ministers, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ademov, I take note of your comments regarding the amendments to the Labour Code. From the way you have presented the proposals made, everyone in this House and outside the Chamber is under the impression that the changes made in labour and social security legislation are normal. I believe that there are indeed texts that are extremely complex and contradictory and, to a large extent, do not defend the rights of workers and employers. What lies in the proposals to amend the Labour Code and the Social Security Code is linked to a lasting settlement of relations in the Labour Code and in the Social Security Code, and they do not only cover emergency hypotheses. When you spoke very seriously about domestic work or work at a distance, you did not present that other opportunity that would arise in businesses that would have to work. What do we do in cases and are there any hypotheses in which workers are not entitled not to work because they are not provided with the appropriate protective equipment? What is it, is there a defense mechanism? He's gone. Regarding what they will receive as compensation if the employer decides to stop the enterprise from working in a state of emergency, we see the possible hypotheses of art. 218, which gives workers only 50% of the remuneration received because the employer has decided so, but he decides it in the interests of the workers. Will the employer take advantage of those mechanisms that we do not see in the Law relating to 60% state insurance? And why 50%? In the other case, if a public authority has issued a decision to terminate the business of the undertaking, then the employer has a commitment and it will be an additional 40%. There are many texts that we really need to think about and refine at second reading. But the most disturbing thing is that at the moment in this state of emergency there will be people who will not receive any income. And with the hypothesis that we're introducing under art. 173 for unpaid vacations, dear Mr. Ademov...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u31	Make a statement!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u32	And employers to do this and to impose on workers [[GERB lines]] I cannot agree with your comment on unpaid annual leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u33	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. It's from the time of a group, so don't worry, Mrs. Alexandrova. Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, honourable Members! Thank you for your lines. I see that the expectations of colleagues from BSP for Bulgaria, and not only their expectations, are related to this within 2 or 3 days, when they were preparing, let me express myself in this way There's no one and there's no way that's gonna happen! Colleagues, remember one basic principle in public finances: the costs of some who are waiting for them at the moment are revenues for others. In order to maintain public finances in order to maintain the mechanism of society and the functioning of the state, we need to rely on revenue, which means that we must be very careful when making specific requests that are related to additional expenditure, because we do not know Then what's happening? Can we rely solely on our state budget? Naturally, we have some reserve that, if we want, we can spend it very quickly. That's one side of the question. The other side of the question is whether more severe measures can be proposed on a proposal from the National Operational Headquarters and on a proposal from the individual sectoral ministers. If they require legislative change, it is obvious that they should also pass through the National Assembly.................................................................................................. This is the alpha and omega of legislation and constitutional texts, so there is no point in going into details and reading the texts offered differently. Next, the most important issue is in terms of solidarity. Fellow Members, solidarity is invented not by the importers of this bill, not even by any of the Members of the National Assembly. Solidarity is from the time of Otto von Bismarck you know very well about it. Solidarity is one of the elements of the main cell of society, because without solidarity, especially in times of crisis, there will be no one society. Therefore, let us accept solidarity as, as I said in my speech, a field within which we are looking for a fair distribution between individual actors in public life, between public authorities, employees and, last but not least, European solidarity. And as for the texts that are in the Labour Code, Mrs Klisurska, I have not accidentally stated that what is envisaged as an opportunity for unpaid leave, after using the paid leave, my proposal, I hope, and the majority of my colleagues, is to drop this proposal. It is obvious that before we exhaust the possibilities of our own solidarity to rely on collective solidarity means to shift the burden on one side of the other, and the truth is that we have to look for balance, we have to look for balance. And as for whether employers, Mr. Zablyanov, have the right to stop businesses that are important to national security, I am convinced that this text should somehow be released from this fear that you are talking about, and I think this can happen between first and second readings.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. Mrs. Daritkova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We do find ourselves in an unusual emergency, which is not only from the point of view of the epidemiological situation and the challenges facing the state, but it is unusual from the point of view of the measures that we need to take as legislators. That is why, in view of this unusual situation, we must today be particularly responsible, constructive and solidarity, because, indeed, in our latest history, we have a declared emergency for the first time. The proposals for such a law were made by MPs from GERB's parliamentary group. Is there a need for such a law? I think that no one here disagreed with the idea of giving additional guarantees to implement the measures that ensure that the crisis is dealt with at the moment, related to ensuring social isolation, because this is at this stage the only proven mechanism to stop the spread of infection, to prevent, on the one hand, the disease, on the other hand, from enabling human lives to be saved and limiting fatal outcomes and consequences. They are essential because when we talk about the consequences, first of all, we need to place the rescue and protection of citizens' lives and health. Yes, the economic consequences must also be discussed, but in any case we need to grade the challenges and give priority to what is important at the moment, to make sure that in Bulgaria the sad statistics do not reach these records that have reached in the other European countries. That is why I believe that the Bill should be discussed from this point of view, that the government, the Staff of Operations, should be able to bring forward any measures that ensure the timely response of any challenge within the framework of the regulatory framework. We have been thinking a lot because we are faced with the need to submit a lot of proposals that have come from the different ministries further from Monday to today, and we see experience indeed all the details and possible challenges to be described in specific texts, which we were convinced will not happen. I therefore propose, and this has been discussed in the morning of the Presidency Council, solidarity and responsible today, to support this bill at first reading, so that we can shorten the deadlines, to set the maximum short term.... by 18:00 today, to adopt proposals between first and second readings and to unite around this to make a working group that will revise the Bill in the direction of giving the framework and the possibility in it each of the ministers, on the basis of the special legislation in force, to be able to react. Because by adopting a law in which all the hypotheses are eventually written down, we do not know whether these hypotheses will be problematic the next day and will not have to be changed, and you know that the legislative procedure is clumsy. In this sense, our intentions will be to change between first and second readings. In my opinion, we received an understanding of the Conference of Presidents when we have such a framework, because we are already working on such a framework definition of texts, to gather together, to look at them and to really look for a solution that is as consensual as possible. That, on the one hand, would be a good sign. On the other hand, it will provide security and guarantee to the government and to the Headquarters, which copes with the situation that it has the support of the MPs. It is particularly important, indeed, that we be responsible, solidarity, and put aside political disagreements. I would also like to highlight a particular text that I insist on dropping. This is the change in art. 141 of the Penal Code, one additional paragraph. I believe that at this point we absolutely must rely on the morals, consciousness and high responsibility of all medical professionals. I am convinced of this and I believe that we will all unanimously and jointly vote on this text to be rejected because there is absolutely no need for it to be introduced. My fellow Members, I would like to call once again on us to be constructive, responsible and disciplined about what we are calling for all Bulgarian people, and indeed with the legislative initiative and the legislative framework to enable Bulgaria to face the challenge of the epidemic.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u37	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Nino. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u38	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable colleagues, dear Bulgarian citizens! On 13 March 2020, the National Assembly decided to declare a state of emergency in Bulgaria. We from BSP for Bulgaria and we are responsible, reasonable people understand the need for the situation, understand the strength of the crisis and support this solution. Moreover, we ensured by including the text of the Constitution that the fundamental rights of Bulgarian citizens will be preserved and on our proposal the state of emergency was limited by a period of time. It is quite normal for the details of the following actions of the Bulgarian institutions to be settled in law and we insisted on it. You, the government, have submitted a proposal for a law on measures during a state of emergency. There are good suggestions in it. For example, those for social exclusion and limitation of mass events or those for delaying time limits in cases. I rule out the alimony, which I hope at second reading will be corrected. But there are also unacceptable texts in this law. I will speak specifically on some of them, but since today we are discussing the philosophy of the Law, we will vote abstention for two reasons. First, because in this law the state transfers all responsibilities to workers, employers, doctors, different groups in the Bulgarian society, but does not assume any. In other words, solidarity is missing at all! The second reason is that all commitments made by the government specifically to measures for workers and employers, socially weak and so on, publicly promised, are missing in this law. For these two reasons, we will vote abstention, between first and second reading we will submit our proposals and at second reading we will express our relationship text by text. But let's get to the point. We all agree that the most important first question at the moment is the protection of the health of Bulgarian citizens. Let's take a look outside the hall! What excites people out there? Life's normal everyday issues are in front of all of us. They say, "We don't have masks. There are no drugs. " The doctors say: "We don't have breathing apparatus in hospitals, they don't have enough disinfectants. How did the government react to this first urgent question? It's starting to reorganize the economy for the production of masks and clothing. Okay, great! But they're not here right now. This remodeling will take months. Until then, the disease will probably develop. Here I put for the fifth time in two weeks one question. For the fifth time! And five times the grave silence! Is Bulgaria a state reserve? What's in the state reserve? Is he there, or isn't he there? Because, ladies and gentlemen, in whatever state of emergency we are, laws apply in Bulgaria! In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2 of the State Reserve Act writes: "State reserves are medicines, hospital property, disinfectants, protective clothing and so on. While we manufacture them while we wait for the public procurement from Europe, we ask and insist: will you open the state reserve or are you afraid because it may not be there? Give me a simple answer! Because, honourable managers, there is a regulation to this law that says the following: "In such situations, there is free provision of state reserves to medical and health institutions and social care facilities is allowed. When will Borisov's government implement the State Reserve Act and its regulations? Because Bulgarians currently need these protective measures, and doctors need these tools, clothing and breathing apparatus. This would be an adequate measure and it would be good in this law to record that in cases of emergency they are automatically activated art. 2 of the Law and Art. 24 of the Ordinance. Further on, what are the other daily worries outside? They are for doctors for not getting enough, for some of them want to leave because they do not have protective clothing to work. What does the law propose? You promised, Borisov promised them 1,000 leva. additional remuneration. There's not a word in the law about it. Instead, you are making changes to the Penal Code, with which you punish doctors with probation and a fine from 200 to 1000 BGN if they do not fulfil their duties. They're all we need right now. We are concerned about them because they need to protect the health of the Bulgarian people. Instead of the stimuli the prime minister promised, this law imposes punishment on them and not a word of additional reward! The next problem in life outside is speculation. You all know there are already cases like this. How did the government react to that? Not at all! You promised you'd watch 130 goods, put them on a list. You allowed the imposition of marginal prices and so on. So what are you suggesting in the Law? Nothing! That remained a naked promise! You're not even suggesting what we wanted to increase the penalties for speculators! Dear rulers, we understand the situation, we are ready for a constructive dialogue, to discuss everything together and to decide! But in this crisis, you can't punish a doctor with a fine of 1,000 leva. and speculator with 100 leva.! You can't and you can't meet our understanding of this! Next promise. You said publicly that the state would take 60% of the remuneration of those workers who would lose their jobs. It's a wonderful offer, but it's not in the law! There is quite the opposite the state does not make absolutely no commitment, but transfers it to employers who have to pay 50% of the remuneration that are put on leave! That is, once again you are burdening others and not fulfilling the commitments that you have promised publicly Prime Minister, ministers! They're gone! You're taking away workers' rights! According to the texts you have proposed, they are expressed in the following: putting on unpaid leave without the wish of the worker, it may be necessary. But in the current texts of the Law, it says that if a worker does not work but is not responsible, as is the case, he receives his full gross wage. That's what the law says! What do you suggest? The worker doesn't work, it's not his fault, and he gets 50%. Isn't that the withdrawal of working people's rights? In addition to paid vacations, you're taking away half the remuneration that's now due to them by law. There's no way we can support this! You promised 500 million to help small and medium-sized businesses through the Development Bank. Where are they in the Law gone, and it is not about any measure to assist the business? All this needs to be done through a budget update. It is clear to you that we cannot authorize the Council of Ministers and the Prime Minister to continue on his own initiative to distribute the money to the people, as he has decided? This will be huge costs and need a budget update, a functioning and working parliament, where these things are discussed and resolved. You promised to postpone payment of the bills by 20 days. Isn't that right? Mrs. Petkova promised him a minister from Borisov's government. Where is this measure in this law? There is no such thing as another naked promise. However, this did not prevent you from strongly opposing our proposal to freeze the payment of the bills for the period of emergency with the same supporting point of four years that this was populism!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u39	This is the debate on the next point, Mrs. Ninova. No one has declared any position yet.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u40	Yeah. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, how it is not populism for the United States of America to spend a trillion dollars on such a presentation, such measures as social and economic, how it is not populism in Canada 27 billion to be given for such measures, in England 20 billion pounds only for social measures, vouchers, aiding people, in Germany, in Italy, tax vacations, vacations on mortgage loans. How in the whole world this is a fact and helps the economies and the people, and only for you in Bulgaria this is populism!? Because of the measures they took in the U.S. in just one night, these financial injections stabilized the markets and they went up, they collapsed 30% in 24 hours, but when the state intervened, things stabilized and went up slightly. I'm not saying they've recovered, but it's a financial injection that can help at this point not only the economies, those people who can't pay. You say: the state needs revenue. Of course. We didn't fall from the sky just to want things that are impossible. But this revenue comes from the people who have to pay their taxes, the bills. Well, they can't pay 'cause they're out of a job. Well, let's help them, and when things get back on track, when businesses get back on track, they'll pay for them, we don't want to forgive them, and in Britain they'll allocate 15% of their gross domestic product to such measures. Can you imagine what 15% is? Our proposals are for a package of measures within 1% of Bulgaria's gross domestic product and you say again: this is populism. No, let's sit wisely, with the numbers, but to come and Goranov here and answer a few questions, simple and specific: how much money is in the fiscal reserve of the state, because all speculations are going are there, aren't they? To come and tell the National Assembly: we have 5, 6, 7 billion fiscal reserves, we can in this crisis divide a reasonable one or two and sit down and discuss it to come to say. How much will the European funds be of those we have not yet benefited from other programmes, or will there be new ones, how will they be distributed? You know, all this cannot happen without a budget update, but the other day at the Conference of Presidents he said: "I don't think about updating the budget at all! " Is there order and law in the state even in a state of emergency, and even more in an emergency there must be twice as many such commitments? Today, as I told you, we will vote abstention, and between first and second reading we will propose opening up the state reserve, as the Law requires; giving information about the fiscal reserves of the state and making estimates of budget update; taking drastic measures to limit speculation; delaying domestic payments for a certain period of time; finding a mechanism for private hospitals to be involved in the overall crisis management process, health issues, health problems, and from now on to think wisely, justified, without emotions and cold blood, financially justified for a package of economic and social measures, with which, after mastering the peak of the health problem, to help the Bulgarian economy and those Bulgarian citizens who will be severely affected by the consequences, whose standard of life will be very low, let them also be in the center of our care and solutions here. That is why we believe that in Parliament we must continue to work, we must find reason. Where you offer something reasonable, you have our support, where you run away from responsibility and break the laws of the country, you will have our firm opposite position. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u41	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Colleagues, let me just report: Since the Conference of Presidents has decided to have a Working Group on the Rules, please ask the Members who are designated by their groups to go to the East Hall to meet. To announce that the vote on this and on the second point will be after the debates on both points have been completed, so we agreed at the Conference of Presidents. So by closing this point, we're going to start debates on the second point and then we're going to vote them both at the same time. Any lines to Mrs. Ninova? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Vesselinoff, come in. Then Minister Sacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u42	Madam President, honourable Members! As has already been said, the Group of the United Patriarchs will support the current bill. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u43	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u44	And I'm actually experiencing some amazement as to why, what motive might it be for not supporting this bill? We are here for several years listening to reproaches about how Parliament is a rubber stamp, but in fact, not adopting the bill on measures relating to the state of emergency means that we should not take our responsibility as a parliament for these measures and let the executive authority say it in the good sense of the word, to improvise. As soon as the decision was made to declare the state of emergency, we decided that there should be a law. This law must bring together a maximum number of measures in different directions and it is a fact. True, it was written literally on the weekends by the ministries, was imported by colleagues from GERB and must have its imperfections, i.e. it certainly has its imperfections, but in the end our job as parliamentarians is to smooth it out and make it as adequate as possible to the situation. Furthermore, we cannot ask one such law to solve all problems now and at the moment. That is why the Conference of Presidents also heard quite convincing opinions from all sides that Parliament should continue to work despite the serious epidemiological situation in order to continue to bear its responsibility and not, after all, to focus its efforts on legislation relating precisely to the emergency situation. This law must introduce strict rules, but not repressive rules. In this regard, I will be one of many who will speak against art. 141 of the Penal Code, which is redundant. Because, at the very least, such measures have been provided for by the Penal Code. Here I am solidarity with the opinion that we should have guarantees that it was administrative, or legislative, that the entire capacity of private hospitals will, if necessary, be mobilized to control the epidemic and to treat our compatriots. In the part that guarantees the rights and in fact the survival of Bulgarian citizens can indeed be desired more. For us, for example, it is imperative that we change the intended hypotheses that allow really parents who cannot give their children to gardens, schools, because they are closed, to raise them, to enjoy their paid leave. But what do we do when this paid leave is over? We go on unpaid, for lack of income. So here we have to think about a form of compensation that is adequate. The people with the credits. Indeed, this is a major problem, as is generally the case with companies in the sectors affected by the crisis, which have loans. Here we need to think about texts that allow these people in a very simple way to get a continuance of their payments until the state of emergency has passed. In this respect, our parliamentarians will make support. Fighting speculation is also a very important issue. More than a year ago, IMRO suggested texts to control... Please extend the group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u45	Increase the group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u46	...the prices of basic food products and rather the overestimates that retail chains allow themselves to overcompensate. I think now is the time to sit down and think about a text which, in the context of the state of emergency, i.e. creates a system that works and guarantees people that they will receive their medicines, respectively the necessary means of disinfection and therefore, without being charged with speculative prices, with speculative overestimates, and that they will be accessible to them accordingly. The fake news is also a topic that opens with this bill and which is extremely important because we have read everything during these weeks from extremely deadly and sinister predictions about the future of all humanity, and in particular of Bulgaria, almost to others, how this whole epidemic is fiction and which have called for irresponsible behavior. Not to mention what was written for the State Reserve, who was selling medical equipment, which is precisely for these needs, for parliamentarians, what was written, and so on. There's obviously a problem here. In this spirit, by the way, IMRO parliamentarians have developed as a whole proposals and a new concept of the topic "False News" which is related not only to the Penal Code, where the text should be refined, but also to the Law on Radio and Television, and with additional commitments for CEM in relation to the content of sites and social networks when we become victims of such hysterics. Last but not least, the Law also lacks the location of local self-government bodies, which should have their control functions, as they are the closest to the problems. And on all these problems that I have mentioned, we will make our proposals, as well as others probably. I see no reason for anyone who claims to be responsible for wanting Parliament to work constructively, not to do the same to support at first reading and to make their proposals between first and second. I call for this to be the approach. Because, yes, it's easy to avoid responsibility, but that's not the reason why we're being picked here. There are also difficult moments in which responsibility must be filled with all its strength, and in this regard, we of the United Patriarchs stand in this position.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mrs. Sacheva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As has already been noted, today is the third working day of the state of emergency. From the stands it has been heard that we are not in a state of war, but at the same time all that is asked so far is that it is as if a war has actually been declared indefinitely. The proposed bill contains measures that are expected by our fellow Members.. especially in terms of time limits, documents, and, of course, they expect quick solutions from us, given the situation. Already yesterday, in all the committees, all the ministers of our fellow Members said that there are texts that will be further proposed, such as this text, which relates to the assumption of 60% of the salary of employees on their social security income for January. Also in the Social Committee, this text was presented, and the reason why it was entertaining is that an informal co-ordination procedure with the social partners has been made, because I believe that you all believe that their opinion should be taken into account as well. As regards the measures to be taken, some of these measures do not require legislative decisions. They are being launched, and even this morning, together with our colleague, the Education Minister, we have discussed concrete measures on how to make possible the delivery of food to children who are socially weak and who are currently not attending school. The operational government is constantly proposing and conducting various measures so that it can cover the most vulnerable and oppressed layers at the moment of the situation we are in. Specifically, the measures that we have proposed with regard to the remuneration of the medical professionals, nurses, specialists from regional health inspections, including emergency care centres, will be financed by the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development', including the measure related to the additional provision of 20 million for home social patronage, for patronage care and for the extension of patronage care to more than 100 municipalities, including the extension of the scope for people and families in quarantine. These measures are proposed in the texts of the Law, which are related to European funds and funds, so that we can obtain precisely greater flexibility. I would like to emphasise that at this stage we do not have any additional funds from the European Commission, and we have the freedom to redistribute funds that are currently not agreed on under the various operational programmes. In this sense, the texts proposed in this bill will enable us to do so. With regard to the instruments we provide in the Labour Code and in the Social Security Code, these are different types of instruments. It is not possible for all people, for all employers and for all employees to have the same measures, but we give different opportunities. With regard to such proposals art. 218a yesterday in the Social Committee with all MPs we discussed in detail that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy will propose that this article be dropped, although this article is active and now exists in the Bulgarian legislation in the Law on Disasters. With regard to unpaid leave, it was discussed yesterday that unpaid leave would be possible at the request of the employee himself if he wished to do so, and the point of this is to save his job after all. We don't have to lie about each of us paying a price, and sacrificing your vacation might be the least price. What we are trying to do is to make sure that in most cases we strengthen the health system first, to make sure that we do not have many victims in real human life. This is the point of the measures being proposed at the moment. No one can guess how long the health threat will last, and certainly the economic consequences of it will continue for a certain period of time. At the moment we need to think not panicked and how in the short term to try to cover absolutely all the damage, but to think long-term about what is waiting for us and what are the sectors to which we must give the most support. I strongly disagree that there is no solidarity in this bill, because everything that has been proposed here will to a significant extent be financed, including the current funds that we have, as well as the operational programmes for human resources development. People are currently on sick leave, people are currently using the unemployment fund. The unemployment fund will also cover these costs for 60% of the salary. Certainly, when we have the opportunity to make a better forecast for the expected future development, then we will also propose other measures, of course, if necessary, and an update of the budget. At this stage, on the third working day of the crisis, it is extremely premature to make strategic decisions that can bring us into much bigger problems afterwards. I would ask the question: and if the crisis goes away in three months, and all the measures that are being taken at the moment can come to a much greater extent to disrupt the systems that we will then fight for years? With regard to the social assistance system, I would like to emphasise once again that it is not being built today because we have a situation of emergency. The social assistance system exists! Aid is currently being made and aid is being granted to almost 600,000 families and food is being distributed from the Home Social Patriarchage to almost 43,000 people in over 200 municipalities, and this patronage will be expanded, as has already become clear. We are looking for opportunities for new mechanisms and measures, including what I have just announced to you about children from socially weak families who are currently not attending school, we are looking for mechanisms with the Member Minister of Education to do so that food for them and continue to be distributed by municipalities and social workers, we are also ready to propose many other measures. This bill at this stage covers extremely important topics and issues, especially in terms of the time limits for monthly aid, the time limits with individual assessments of people with disabilities, TelK solutions and others. Bulgarian citizens expect these deadlines and not only them, of course, and we are obliged to provide them with the information and opportunities with which to plan their future as soon as possible and as quickly as possible. So my proposal and my appeal to you is that we do not continue to waste the time and trust of Bulgarian citizens and, of course, fighting economic speculation, let us also declare against political speculation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u49	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sacheva. Mrs. Petkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to take an attitude or rather to clarify several topics that have been put forward in the course of the debate on the sector of the European Union and the measures that have been reflected in the proposed bill. We do not need to explain and convince each other how important the role of the energy sector in our normal life is to not speak in an emergency situation that we are currently in. What is the importance and role of the energy sector? Two are the main priorities that are ahead of us in the sector..................................................................................... The first and most important national priority is to protect the lives and health of the people who work in the system, the people who benefit from the services of the energy system. Our other very important task is to ensure the security and continuity of electricity supply, natural gas, so that it can continue the normal functioning of the economy, the normal functioning of the state. With regard to the note that was made by Mr. Simeonov concerning that at present all users should do similar checks on their power sources, I would like to make the following clarification: yes, there is a regulation that governs these relations. This regulation sets out four categories of users who have different meanings and place in the functioning of the State, but there is one category of........................................................... that includes such offices.................................................................................................................................................................................... It is this category of zero electricity consumers that we have taken out and proposed to find a place in this bill as a priority and directly related to people's lives and health and national security. Hospitals are the first priority. You know, there are wards where there are life-saving systems, and if they stop working, that means that people's lives are at risk. Therefore, this category of users, the so-called zero users, must have two power sources, and these two sources reserve each other, and apart from that they must have one alternative source of their own. The purpose of this norm in the Law is to get these owners of systems in hospitals, state institutions, telecommunications operators to do such a check to ensure the continuity of the electricity supply process. This is the main reason why this category of users are taken to a special place in the Law. Regarding what Mrs. Nino noted in her statement, that the measures we have negotiated with the electricity distribution companies and with the President of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory have found no place in the proposed bill, as you know, the bill has been tabled. I now looked, at 17.54 pm on 16 March. Our proposals during yesterday were that we continued to work, we made such proposals, and they will, of course, find a place, because we all in this situation have to run away from populism. We all need to make sure that Bulgarian citizens feel secure, feel at ease in this situation and, believe me, the government does everything that is necessary to be a fact. The entire country has mobilised its resources. I thank all the MPs and believe that you will support this bill, because the measures that are being proposed are indeed very important and very timely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u51	Thank you, dear Minister. The word is Minister Kirilov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u52	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Members! I will very briefly try to answer the questions relating to the legislative procedure under this bill. Who asked for this law? Dear colleagues on the left, we have considered and were convinced that you have requested the settlement of specific measures with a legal act with the rank of law. I remember the debate on Friday and in some of your speeches, including the Conference of Presidents, there was a comment on the state of emergency by decision or by law is settled and settled. There was a lot of talk about the inaccessibility of fundamental rights under the Constitution. Dear Members, although the fundamental rights governed by the Constitution have not been affected in any way so far, we have also tried to reflect these more intensive rights, which are limited and referred to in art. 2. Yes, these are mainly rights regarding the free movement of people, but in order for the opposition to have peace of mind, we replicated part of the Minister of Health's order. I strongly disagree that al. 2 of art. Two is unconstitutional. All powers established on the occasion and in relation to the issuing of the Order of the Minister of Health shall be delegated to him by law. I claim that the Minister of Health's order has been followed in the strictest way both the law and the Constitution. I say again, for your peace of mind, to make sure that there will be no measure of limitation of your fundamental rights, so we went to explicit citation in art. 2. I apologize if I've ever called him Art. 2. It is not true that there are no additional norms included in art. 2, and one of the most controversial in the short time of co-ordination of these texts was point 7 So, in any case, I have made a commitment to my fellow ministers between first and second readings to clarify this matter, as far as we have diplomatic officials, diplomatic agents who cannot fail to carry out their work, traveling to the country and abroad. It turns out that in the international transport sector employees also carry out their main activities in posting mode, so I inform you of this addition. With regard to the norms which are in art. 3 and in art. 4, I will return to the meaning of this law. Here you criticised us for being extremely punctual, there were a lot of texts that had already been established in the legislation. On the contrary, my fellow ministers criticised me for not being comprehensive enough because there are sectors, as well as Minister Sacheva said, both eventually and the Minister of Finance would also say, which, because of the speed of preparation of this law, we could not reflect them in the text as we have imported it, but knowing that we have the opportunity to make an addition and to cover all aspects of regulated matter. This law is temporary. This is a temporal law that will act if the National Assembly is right, it will act for a month. I would like you to be right and indeed to be repealed by date 13 April 2020, to end the emergency situation by virtue of the expired deadline, not to need the legislative authority of the Republic of Bulgaria to reconsider its decision on the deadline! I hope so! I hope this month is intense and intense, but with all these measures to overcome the spread and consequences of the virus! The temporal law, which Mr. Krum Zarkov hinted about, is such a law that actually governs three or four essential issues in such a situation. All these questions are deadlines, colleagues! That's the point! The legislation, historically speaking back when there was a state of emergency, and in the last 70 years there has not been a law in the old days, there have been three such moratorium laws. They are for a moratorium on time limits. As legislators, you should consider the most important deadlines that should be limited. We have proposed, in any case, that this be the procedural time limits, because you see that no matter the executive or legislative authority, the judiciary has already decided this issue by decision of the Supreme Judicial Council the courts are closed, the parties to the cases are asking:.......................... what are we doing in this situation?.................................................. 3. Article 4 shall be entirely for the protection of property rights and interests of, possibly, the persons concerned, and they shall again be selected Your electoral group: these are debtors not to be disturbed by forced enforcement proceedings, these are workers and employees who, if owed, will not be forced to collect by means of props and execution debts from their accounts. Yes, you said here, and we agree we have no argument on that yes, the alimony will be set. We have to balance, and I'm sure you'll balance! It's also said it's good to stop interest rates. If we have the opportunity within this day, we will offer you a more elegant legal solution, which will also be balanced for both parties - for both debtors and creditors. Not to stop interest rates and to damage, for example, the depositors of the banks, but not to be able to apply the consequences of the delay. That is, the debt to be declared early, to impose other penalty rates, and we believe that you will accept this as a fair decision. Yes, we rely on the committees and, according to your legislative initiative, between first and second readings, this law will become brief. I do not want to repeat here as a cliché the words of Winston Churchill, who, writing a letter, said: "I am writing you this long letter because I did not have enough time to make it brief. " You have earned enough parliamentary time to make this text short, and indeed, in view of the speed, at least four significant proposals have become on the respective portfolios that will be made today, including the part of the finance. I will say about Mrs. Ninova: Mrs. Ninova, I am excited about your question about the state reserve and wartime reserves, but I will say this: I am sure that I am also using a mask from the reserve, which is in the part that is urgent need of the Ministry of Justice. But you know the exact quantities are classified. If you wish to have access to classified information, please request it in writing from the President of the State Reserve and Wartime Stocks, he will send it to you in a secret library and you will be able to meet him. But, yeah, it doesn't work for you because you won't be able to speak it and you'll see that in practice you've seen 100,000. the tons of alcohol were unblocked by the state reserve. I can't tell how many more there are, but there are at least four times as many untapped. We expect that, here I will not say stories of political responsibility and so on, but the debate on Friday encouraged not only the political environment, encouraged our society, that in this House, in difficult situations there may be unity and I appeal for it! Let's continue with the same-thinking! We can easily find and have an argument in some detail, but faster and better we can solve it together. Do you want me to argue with your bill or not? I won't argue. I'll deliberately shut up about this. I didn't know that the two bills would be watched together, and my colleagues and I were wondering how to arrange our speeches, but you can see that we are speaking so that you can react and replicate our speeches. I am counting on it, if this is the procedure that the President said, in today's day to really make this law, which will remain the only one that is now, but I hope it will remain the only one for the next 70 years. Let's do it the way it's appropriate. I'm not talking about the penal code. I'm deliberately stopping, and I'm not talking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u53	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. We continue with the speeches. Are there any other statements? I can't see. We are putting an end to the debate on this bill. We're continuing with the Decision Project. The vote will take place after work is stopped. Procedure? I'll give you the floor, Mr. Nikolov. The vote on both the Bill and the draft moratorium decision will be carried out after the work is terminated in about thirty minutes. You have the floor, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u54	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, gentlemen and ministers! I am doing a procedure based on our Rules of Procedure to allow Mr. Ivan Ivanov to be in the Chamber, President of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u55	Thank you. This is about the next point? [[Heckling]] Yeah. I'm putting Mr. Nikolov's offer on the table a little early. They voted 83 MPs: 78, against 2, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: PROJECT OF A MORATORIUM DECISION ON THE CONSUMERING OF ELECTRICITY, TOPLOENERGY, WATER AND TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICES FOR BORROWING PROCEEDING WITH THE NON-PAYING OF LONG ACCOUNTS. The draft decision is with importers: the People's Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The importers? Mr. Zarkov, you have the floor to present the proposal and the motives to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u56	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, a lot has been said about our draft decision in recent days. They heard all kinds of qualifications about him. Everyone can express an opinion, of course, but it is not bad before expressing it, to get acquainted with the decision itself. What exactly are we suggesting? We don't offer to forgive bills. What we are proposing is to stop the time limits for the execution of the contracts by the consumer side, that is, those accounts can be rescheduled as payment over time. This has a very important social and health aspect. First of all, it is absolutely clear that people who have lost their income when they are pressed into another overhead account will be in a very difficult state. So let us give them air when the economic environment is restored, then pay the bills. It was heard: "But they were going to accumulate. " - Let the people think that those who can and for them are not a problem can pay them back within the regular term, but those for whom this is a problem must have the opportunity to postpone them. By the way, there is also a sanitary aspect, because if you walk here to the nearest boulevard of Dondukov, you will see that queue seats, besides food stores and pharmacies, are where the overhead accounts are paid. So people are piling up there on the spot to pay for it within the time limit. So it's not about populism or the burden of anyone, it's about a simple measure of common sense, which, if the effort is made to read and consider, shouldn't have a problem being accepted. The same applies to the second measure relating to this measure, which we propose, namely: a moratorium on the suspension of the supply of electricity, heat, water and telecommunications services. Naturally, when we tell someone: stay home, we have to guarantee that they will not shut down their electricity and water. When we tell someone: it works from home, we have to guarantee that they will not stop their communications through which it works. These two proposals are neither radical nor will create any quite major difficulties for companies or the state. Therefore, the way these proposals have been adopted seems a little disturbing to me. Moreover, in essence, the proposals that we have written in this draft decision today do not differ much from the measure proposed by the Minister of Energy to postpone payments by 20 days. Well, why is our proposal, made a few days earlier, absolute and absurd populism, and your proposal is normal?! Please, to make sense of every debate, to criticize each other after we have made a simple effort to understand what is being proposed. The difference between our proposal and what the government has done is that ours is signed and submitted to the National Assembly and I suggest that this draft decision be voted on and supported. From this we will win everyone and give breath to the Bulgarian citizens in serious situation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u57	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Nikolov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u58	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! I wouldn't in any way call your proposal populist, but I guess some of the importers aren't that familiar with the way the power supply is organized, maybe the heat supply. Indeed, it is a noble goal for people who have remained at home not to pay their bills for a certain period and thus to keep them in the houses and help them financially when they have problems with their incomes. Sounds good, but let's think a little bit more about what would happen if we accepted this proposal? Final suppliers generally receive the amounts of electricity bills and distribute them along a long chain. For them they remain about 2%, that is, we cannot say: these end suppliers will wait, they will endure without receiving that money. They distribute them along this long chain and usually this chain comes with wages for those who work in the energy sector. That is to say, what I call for money to be given to people so that they can meet their medical, food and all kinds of needs, at some point we stop their salaries. Now I'm gonna explain why this is happening. More or less 180 million, I would call on Mr. Ivanov to give more accurate data in connection with the heat supply, with the electricity supply, but 180 million are collected by domestic consumers. I repeat only from the domestic consumers of electricity supply companies, i.e., more precisely, end suppliers. Of that 180 million 30 million. lv. are value added tax. At the moment we are trying to get the state to bear the costs of part of the business respectively, wages 60 to 40, you know the proposals, we are trying to bear all the medical costs of health institutions so that they can meet this heavy blow. That is, the state is under great pressure, provided that revenues will most likely decrease, and dramatically so. And at some point, we're gonna make electricity go away for 30 million a month. lv. the value added tax in the treasury, which needs to be borne, no one knows how much temporary impact of reduced revenue and increased costs. Then 150 million. BGN, which are without value added tax, is given to the public supplier. The public supplier is currently being executed by the National Electricity Company. The national electricity company, respectively, buys electricity from producers who have designated the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. I'm not gonna list them all. Kozloduy NPP at present due to the financial well-being can take some degree of non-payment for a certain period of time, but these are also the coal plants Maritsa TPP East 1s, Maritsa East 3s, by order of the Minister Maritsa East 2s, which also works on a regulated market with this order. These are many other manufacturers. Of course, these are the mines that deliver these coals and will not receive their money. That is, the miners and those who work in coal plants will take the hardest blow from the fact that there will be no two-month payment of bills. Of course, this may happen later, but let us not forget that the TPP Maritsa East 1s and the TPP Maritsa East 3s are private companies. Let us not forget that the electricity distribution companies are also not state companies, that is, in any case they will benefit from their right and bring arbitration cases against Bulgaria, perhaps. Maybe not, maybe we should... But if they file arbitrage cases, they may be entitled to claim damages from the state, that is, we are still burdening the state with some pretty big money that will just go up in the air because we have proposed a non-payment bill about two months. And if the state of emergency continues, we should probably extend that deadline. That is, at some point the whole chain will suffer, and this is a chain that provides a strategic resource and a strategic service, because hospitals will not be able to work without electricity, of course. In order for this energy to function, materials in the sector must be purchased accordingly so that damage can be removed in order to buy a fuel resource. Not to say that if the steam stops payments to the Bulgargas, the Bulgargas prepays this gas, which negotiated 40% less for April. If he stops the payments to the Gazprom export company, do you think that gas will be delivered even though there are force majeure? Do you think that this 40% will remain, provided that Bulgargaz is no longer a reliable debtor? I don't think so. That is, at some point, in order to do good, we will make the whole system worse, and we will make people who need money to endure a crisis. So I think this proposal is not populist, it is of good intentions, but the damage that will be done has not been properly assessed. Since I have no idea, perhaps Mr. Ivanov will give more information about the water that is paid by domestic consumers as a sum, and therefore the heat that deliver the heat efficiency not only in Sofia but also in other cities of the country, but they cannot be said to be in good financial condition. Water companies find it extremely difficult to pay for the electricity their pumps use and for which final suppliers have repeatedly sent letters to the Energy Commission that they will be able to cut electricity if it is not paid. And at some point we deprive them of income even to pay for this service that is being provided to us. They have absolutely every reason to stop electricity from pumping. Then we'll leave the big cities without drinking water? And not just the big cities. So what do we do? What does your law say about this thing? That is, at some point we can do huge damage, because I do not think that everything is well thought out in relation to what is happening in the chain and non-payments in the chain. You know that final suppliers also buy electricity from the stock exchange to cover the losses given by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. What kind of money are they gonna buy that electrical energy with? Also a big question, provided they don't have money in the system. I think the power distribution companies can be in a great image to say it, stress if they start to cut the power to anyone who hasn't paid. They understand the situation. You know that the Minister called the directors of these companies, I have personally spoken to them on the phone because legislative and administrative measures have not been taken yet. They promised that they would never take such a measure. And I don't think that's necessary. A dialogue can avoid the adoption of such texts. And they may say that the minister is more well-meaning, but if we give a signal to the public, even to those who can pay for electricity or other utilities, to stop payments, I think we will bring the state to collapse. Even the workers who need these monthly incomes to meet their daily lives, even their money will stop and make it difficult, of course, the social system. I believe that we do not need to accept, I would even call on us not to accept this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u59	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. - What's the line? Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies ministers, honourable Members of the House! Dear Mr. Nikolov, first of all, I would like to thank you for separating yourself from the general talk that this was a populist decision and you understand what this is about. I would like to say to you that I respect your expert opinion very much as far as energy is concerned. Everything you said about energy and water supply must be exactly as you say it is. Perhaps the other lines will be in that direction, but I would like to draw your attention to something else. You said about the state of energy in the country, and I want to tell you what is the state of the people in the country. You do not forget that in Bulgaria in normal times people who have difficulty paying their household bills for electricity, water, communications and so on, and not in my opinion, but according to Eurostat, there are more than 30%. In other words, every third Bulgarian has difficulty in paying on time his domestic duties so far and with this achievement we are leading the negative ranking in Europe. You are aware that now in this crisis, or as we will call the pandemic and its subsequent crisis, there will be an increase in the number of these people. It'll probably be over 50%. We, even if we don't reschedule their payment, they still won't be able to pay it. We therefore propose a solution to reassure them that at least they will not be charged interest on these payments. And why would you not agree to do that if Minister Petkova said so? Only she said 20 days, and we say, as the crisis runs. We can talk, settle for different periods of time, but the idea has to go in that direction. In Italy, in Germany, where these measures are put in place, are their people poorer than ours, that they make them, and we jump lightly? Don't worry that this is an opposition proposal. Let us repair it a little, if we have to accept it not as a separate law, but to enter into the Crisis Measures Bill that you propose. We can't get away with this. People won't be able to pay their bills anyway. We'd better reschedule them, not to burden them extra with interest and such payments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u61	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Mr. Ivanov, come in. You have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Nikolov, I take this line for your speech because I think that in the context it was very measured. And for me, I would use more extreme definitions of the proposal tabled by my fellow Members as being too extreme. Everyone has their reasons for and against. I believe that you have given the correct arguments regarding the opposition and abstention from supporting their moratorium, which is in relation to household accounts relating to utilities and others. At the very least, as an economist and a financier, I can tell you that that would do, first of all, to the business that I think... Here we all have the clear consciousness, regardless of which political power we represent, that we are the MPs of all Bulgarians and... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Please, Mr. Chairman, don't get me replicated from this room. In this regard, the Bulgarian economy must naturally continue its normal cycle as far as possible. This moratorium will impose the opposite and will not allow the operation, as you said, of all related service providers, with their counterparties and workers. On the part of the paying agents of these household services. If these household services were to be postponed for a certain period of time, it would have led to an even greater financial harassment of a person when he would have to pay that bill. Because there's no way we're going to disappear and there's no obligation. I think we are spared from one point of view by the fact that the crisis in Bulgaria occurred at the end of the heating period and the measures taken and those taken here and the executive will be able to save the economy and utilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u63	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u64	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mr. Nikolov, if you haven't noticed, we've been in a state of emergency since Friday, according to the decision voted in the National Assembly. It is very dangerous, my dear Mr. Nikolov, to set up parts of our society against other parts of our society, those who work in the sector that you protect and believe will be vulnerable, and those who currently face the hardships of this state of emergency. Because, to date, no one can tell us how many individuals are directly affected by these measures that are being imposed, restrictive, and which are most likely to be aggravated. It is very important that you look into what we are proposing, it is very important to take it here by consensus, because those people who are currently suffering the hardships, even with the measures that will be adopted by the next law by Friday, even with the measures that the government is taking, they will be compensated no earlier than two months. Until the various institutions are activated until the necessary documents are accepted until the employers are compensated, what happens?! How are they gonna pay their bills?! By rejecting this decision, we will practically put them in a vicious circle in which they cannot reach even to pay with the unnatural money already. Because in a situation... [[Reply from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva.]] Mrs. Karayancheva, don't replicate me like this because right now... On the phone, you say! Okay. I hope that you do not talk to the opposition and do not address the Bulgarian citizens, because everyone is worried right now. We're being watched directly right now! This broadcast is direct and every Bulgarian citizen is watching how we will deal with his personal problem. Because by breaking the budget of the Bulgarian citizen, of the ordinary citizen, the budget of the whole country will be broken, because by today, stands for unpaid bills will be started because suppliers are in a hurry. They're in a hurry! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u65	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. A hole, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start backwards. Mr. Ivanov, thanks for the lines. Maybe I was misunderstood. I didn't want to turn people against each other. I was just explaining that your concept of protecting people's incomes, your decision is against their access to resources so that they can withstand the crisis. That's what I meant. I didn't want to turn anyone against anyone. I understand your concern and she's right. I agree with Mr. Gokov that maybe there should be no interest in this period. That's a good option. Of course, people who don't pay electronically are usually adults and they go to pay the counter. Maybe there'll be a rumble and that shouldn't be allowed at all. This is part of the talks that Minister Petkova has also held with distribution companies to search for an option so that people can pay these bills without any accumulation, without any danger of transmission of contagion and so on. The problem really isn't easy at all. France has adopted such a measure, but let us not forget that in France, absolutely all the companies in the chain are state-owned because EDF [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria]] which owns nuclear power plants is a state-owned company with a large state participation. The distribution companies are also state-owned, so there is a completely different way of setting up the chain and distribution. I said again, there is no reason why a large part of those in the chain involved in the regulated market are private companies and they cannot be supported in any way. That's not a small problem. I mean, they can take the relevant cases and condemn the state for not a few millions, except what we're going to do as damage at the moment in the chain of transmission from a firm to a firm. So I said that I understand your decision, but it was written very quickly to be able to meet the challenges, but it cannot be taken quickly. Maybe you need to think about all kinds of help options, but this shouldn't be at the expense of energy, but it should be done in another way, identifying people............................. We know that some will be quarantined and cannot pay their bills, but there are ways in which this can happen without adopting such legislation, such a decision. This decision, in my opinion, will do harm because it applies to everyone, not to those who are going to be in difficulties.................... if they are healthy, whether they are financially. So let's look for another option. This decision, in my opinion, will do absolutely no harm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u67	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. In the manner of conduct, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conducting in relation to Mr. Ivanov's reply. I probably would have taken it as a line if you'd turned to the replicator once and said, "Mr. Nikolov..." and so on. He didn't turn around once, made a statement, given enough time that the parliamentary groups have. I see this as a small trick to limit the number of lines that could be made by the opposition. Don't let that happen! It's not serious in this situation!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u69	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. The limitation of the number of lines I do not think is appropriate in this case, moreover, that the group, your parliamentary group, has not exhausted the speaking time. There are plenty of opportunities for speech, so I don't think it's a good line. Colleagues, 30 minutes adjournment. We will then continue with the discussions on the proposal for a decision. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u70	Honourable Members, we are continuing the meeting. Here you are, Mr. Simov, for a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u71	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The media stream dominates from the news of the pandemic, but nevertheless a disturbing news managed to drill a place into people's minds. The famous journalist Slavi Angelov was beaten outside his house yesterday. Journalist, popular enough, investigative, and this is a new black point in the topic, which in the past few years is dominant in Bulgaria for the tragic state of the media environment in Bulgaria. Many times in this room we have tried to debate the state of the media environment, but we basically encounter two arguments when we talk about it. First, that freedom of speech was the work of journalists themselves. Well, we can see that's not true! When a journalist takes a stand, he stands with investigations, what follows for him is a beating, and that is in times of distress. And the second comfort, which was too often and too comforting, is that the situation in our country is not worrying because, you see, there was no murdered journalist?! Yeah, well, we already have a beat-up journalist! We already have a systematic violation of the people who are exercising this profession, and I fear that the measures that are being taken are not sufficient. In vain the 111th place became a metaphor for the state of Bulgaria today. There is no way we can not be in this place when it is possible in the center of Sofia during a state of emergency, when security measures should be stronger, a journalist should be beaten! That is why I would like to express the outrage of our parliamentary group against such an offence against free speech. We strongly oppose such an attitude towards Bulgarian journalists and their noble work and will insist on answers! We will demand a quick approach to who the perpetrators are, why something like this has been done and we will ask for guarantees that journalists will not be subjected to such attacks! Because in the end, there is nothing more shameful than to say that Bulgaria is the country of the beaten journalists, of the silent journalism, of the abducted press, of the captured media, and already those who have preserved their instincts, to tell the truth, to be beaten up. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u72	Thank you, dear Mr. Simov. You have the floor, Mr. Ermenkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u73	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I heard the opinion of the GERB parliamentary group, expressed through the Chairman of the Energy Commission, and I have to tell you that if we were in a normal situation that was not a crisis, he very correctly described how the system works in the energy sector and that finally the one who pays the bill pays everything in the chain. That's so yes, the one who receives the goods pays for everything until it is manufactured. But when Bulgaria is in a state of emergency caused by a pandemic of a coronavirus, these reasoning somehow goes beyond the context of the situation at the moment. They come out because ultimately it is not about energy and it is about looking for everything that needs to be paid for in order for energy to exist, but it is the opposite of energy and its products are made for the benefit of the person and we need to make sure that really this person can use them. And that can only happen if we provide it with continuous access to energy, continuous access to water, continuous access to those utilities without which modern life is unthinkable. When we are in a crisis, when we are facing the risk that many people will be unemployed and, as my colleague Ivanov mentioned, to remain buffered for two months without income, because it is about the time when the application for unemployment benefits is submitted to its receiving. I am telling you this from personal experience, not because someone has told me about it, there is a danger that in these two months a person will be left without water, there is a danger that he will remain without electricity. It is because of this that we offer nothing else, not remission of payments, not use, but, on the contrary, the obligation to pay you remains, but the right of the one who supplies you with these services to stop you from paying the service for not paying in time is revoked. In order not to pay in time, there are a few things that could happen to make you sick, as I said, not to have the income or at the moment where you went to pay, to have a lot of people, too, something that we are trying to avoid. The Prime Minister literally said: "Asocialization is the best way to fight the virus, yes, the less we communicate with each other, the less we will spread this virus. There is concern that if this crisis continues too much and most of the people fail to pay their utility services, the providers of these services may fall into a liquid crisis, not have the money to pay for the producers, respectively, not to be able to receive goods. This issue is very easy to solve. We are a state, there is a state bank in the state, the state bank obeys the decisions and the parliament when these decisions must be final. We could, by such a decision, oblige the Bulgarian Development Bank to grant interest-free loans in such cases, specifically examined so that the state can show its solidarity and that it is not only a criminal authority, as it so far appears from our legislation, we will punish doctors for not going to work; we will punish those who do not comply with the quarantine, and we will punish everyone in general. In this way we show that the state can also be solidarity, can play its social role, which, by the way, is written in the Constitution. Among other things, worries that if utility companies cease the practice of non-payment of the relevant service will lead to mass non-payment mean that we incriminate the entire Bulgarian society, that people are looking for the way they do not pay their bills. I think we are reasonable enough as Bulgarians to know that in the end, what we have done must be paid for. The problem is not to make it an additional burden in a difficult situation where health is most important, in which sanitary control is the most important and in which we need to understand those who are really the most sensitive in the subject supply of electricity, with water, the so-called vulnerable social groups. They would hardly be able to afford an e-payment of the bills, for example, should go on the ground and pay for them. Therefore, I call on you to support our draft decision in that part of it, which you think is better, all the more so that it largely coincides with what Minister Petkova mentioned that it exists in what you are proposing. We're just writing it down a little tighter. Let us not allow the good will of electricity distribution and water companies to decide when to stop and when not the service concerned, but to oblige them by law or by our decision not to do so until at least one month has passed since the expiry of the emergency. Once again, if they are in financial crisis, the state has an instrument to help them through the Bulgarian Development Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u74	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Lazarov. First line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u75	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! Dear Mr. Ermenkov and Mr. Ivanov, the idea deserves a debate, but what did you write in this draft decision? You have set a deadline for the expiry of the time limits, respectively a moratorium on the suspension of electricity, heat, telecommunications services, they are vital, someone watching television, I do not dispute it, maybe so, but you do not have an initial deadline. Until one month has passed since the cancellation of the emergency situation: 1. There is a moratorium on the suspension of the power supply...... and so on. Mr. Ermenkov, this obligation of yours may have become required in January! And yet you're not going to be cut off from electricity. Come on, there's more or less 80. 90% there's a payment, 10 percent there's a non-payment. For heat not to mention there is another topic and water too. And now, on this draft of your decision, it turns out that you will not be stopped by the submission of these household, utility, water, electricity. [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] It will be at the expense of those who are conscientious! The same is true for your second point But they broke out, they were due two months ago! You're talking to us about stopping the time limits during the state of emergency that start or expire at this time, that's your idea, but you've written something completely different! You've written something very different.. the term will stop it because it expired in January! For one reason or another, you do not want to pay for electricity or heat, there are also such citizens. That's what you wrote down, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Yeah, there's room for debate, but it's underwritten. Maybe you didn't see this coming in such a hurry, and we brought in a bill that we urgently had to submit.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u76	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. Second line, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, I would say that there are good proposals in your speech, which can be considered, but we are in an emergency situation and we need to make a decision here at the moment. So there's no way to consider all your decisions right now. I therefore propose that we focus on the bill proposed, that we put forward proposals that belong to the Ministry of Energy.... we can focus on some measures there. We do not want to incriminate, as you say, all Bulgarian citizens. Basically, when we have such a force majeure moment, and this is undoubtedly a stressful moment for the whole society, always an economic model, you know, must be seen in an optimistic, realistic and pessimistic version. When we make a decision, it is logical to think about the pessimistic option, that is to say that all Bulgarian citizens should take the opportunity not to pay because they would like to keep the finances, not to walk or anything else to take advantage of this moment in order not to pay their utility bills. In any case, you are saying correctly, we may be looking for options for the Bulgarian Development Bank, although we do not know what liquidity is from the point of view that we, through it, want to support small and medium-sized enterprises, to help some economic processes that we see are experiencing difficulties. If we load, and we know that energy is a great user of funds, the Bulgarian Development Bank with this, I do not know if it will withstand liquidity. A loan is not granted just so the Bank has to take a decision, its Board, to review all the evidence that will present the companies, and during that time the current of the waterworks may be stopped, they will no longer submit water and so on. So this is no way to make an angro decision and choose this hand or cut the other one. Both proposals as a final effect sound very good, but the consequences, I repeat, are very severe. So if you want, let's focus on the Bill and think about the options and the different hypotheses there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u78	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. Third line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u79	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! Dear Mr. Lazarov, perhaps, as well as the previous bill, because it is written in an extreme environment, we may have made some mistakes, flaws in the wording. I can do immediately, using what you have said, an editorial amendment that sounds like this after the decision:....................................................................................... So you can officially include this as an editorial proposal. Mr. Nikolov, we agree that there may be some other problems in what we are proposing, but let us discuss them right now what you think is not appropriate, to see whether or not we will make those decisions that will benefit the Bulgarian people. In the end, whether we put it into the Law or will it be adopted as this decision is a question of authorship, rather it seems to me as a protection of copyright than a protection of who imports it, why it imports it, what are the decisions and who is more concerned with the Bulgarian people. I urge you to support our draft decision, make your remarks, make your changes. We immediately agreed with Mr. Lazarov that we have missed the deadline. We have given a proposal on how to do it and to go forward as people concerned about the Bulgarian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u80	Mr. Ermenkov, if you're making this proposal officially correct, I'm going to ask you...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u81	Officially, yes. I'm going to repeat it one more time: after the decision:..........................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u82	Thank you. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Ministers! I do not want this draft decision and this bill, which we looked at as the first point, to divide it into ours and yours. There is no law of ours and there was a decision. All together in the situation we are in, we must make the Bulgarian citizens feel protected. We are not talking about a term that expired in January or December, when it will be due and how it will be... Here we are talking about a situation in which yesterday Bansko, today I hear Nova Zagora, and tomorrow perhaps some other cities, just people will be forbidden to go out on the streets. We're talking about cases where by Friday people were at work, on Saturday they were released, on Monday they got their electric bill, on Wednesday they get their rent, and on Friday they get the water bill to pay them! We're talking about these cases! And they're not gonna get a salary. We all know why. These are the cases we're talking about! Of course, who has the opportunity in this situation, in which we are all showing that we are nationally responsible, and the Assembly, and the Bulgarian citizens respect the restrictions of the National Headquarters, will pay because, when you pay, you maintain the systems. But whoever can't, there's no way these people can be punished. That's why our offer is not for 3, it's not for 5, it's for 8, it's for 10 months, it's for the term when you can't physically go to pay your bill! Whenever you have the money, you can't do it! And don't get your power cut off, and don't get your water cut off, and don't get your comms cut off. That's what we're talking about. I don't see what's bothering you. People still won't be able to pay them, they won't be able to go, only in two or three months the money will be paid interest. Or at 9:00 p.m., when we applaud the doctors, we'll have to stand by with candles on the terraces because the power will be cut. Or God forbid this emergency went on for more than a month, two, three. So let's not be jealous of who brought in what, who did what. Go ahead, if we have to finish it. Even here, colleagues have hinted that we have recorded that it enters within three days of the promulgation. No, this should enter immediately after the promulgation in the Official Gazette! And to make the Bulgarian citizens in this situation feel safe, to feel calm, to know that these 240 MPs think about them! I repeat, the fact that you will not accept it and that the moratorium will not be imposed does not guarantee you and does not guarantee you at all that these people will go and pay the bills in the situation we are currently in! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u84	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable ministers! My statement was provoked by Mr. Nikolov's statement before the break and rather here you made some calculations for some 150 million, which will be lost by non-payment of accounts, hence harassing the payment chain of suppliers and so on. I didn't realize on what basis these calculations were made?! What we are proposing is a moratorium on the blackout of those who are unable to pay their bills because they are left out of work for reasons beyond their control. Perhaps you have done these calculations on the basis that all Bulgarian citizens and all consumers will go and benefit from it and will not pay the bills, but we have no doubt about it for several reasons. First, that from morning to night we are talking about solidarity and all Bulgarian citizens are solidarity enough and realize. All those who have the opportunity to pay these bills will go and do so because they all realize that if they don't pay this month's bill, they'll get two bills next month. There are many sectors that, based on this crisis, have even more work, such as the food sector, the pharmaceutical sector. Of course these people have no reason not to go and pay their bills. Yes, perhaps there will be such unscrupulous ones who will benefit from this and will not do it, but these will be units because every Bulgarian citizen and every Bulgarian consumer is reasonable enough to make the bill that if they do not pay this month, next month they will collect two bills and that, as I said, we are talking about solidarity and they are all solidarity to those who are left unemployed. For this reason I could not understand on what basis you made these calculations. In our opinion, those who will not pay will be much less, and the numbers that you mentioned will be many times smaller than what you said. I would also like to take advantage of the presence of the Minister of Energy here in the Chamber to express my personal position. Madam Minister, here from the 13th, when the state of emergency comes, we are all talking about some political agreement, political unity, debate, so that we can really deal with this crisis and make the right decisions about dealing with this crisis. I've been watching a press conference, one of your television appearances, in which you've been discussing this proposal right now, you've called it pure populism or something like that anyone couldn't pay their bills. I hope, if you haven't understood what we've offered then we, after this debate, have made it clear to you. Indeed, the essence of our proposal is the same as your proposal with small exceptions and does not honor you in this environment to go out and talk about populism and to throw mud on the name and suggestions of other political parties. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u86	Thank you, dear Mr. Prodanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Come in for a speech, Mr. Gokov. Colleagues, just to let you know that the vote will take place 15 minutes after the debate is over. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! I didn't want to talk about it because I think everything that needs to be said is said. [[(Comments from GERB: Then why don't you sit down?(See Annex I, Section I.1, to Directive 2008/68/EC)]] I'm not going to sit down because I'm looking at where this is going. I'm not going to sit down because I'm looking at where this is going. I am telling you that our proposal is in no way different from what Minister Petkova said on TV.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u88	It's very different!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u89	I ask her, after I'm done, to come and tell us what our proposal is different from what she was talking about before our bill comes in, and in general what are you going to do with these people, 30% of whom are already delaying their payment bills? Someone was just asking, "What if it's been delayed since January?" Why, has he been delayed for a lot of good since January?! And now, by delaying his payment due to these circumstances, what do we load him from above and with interest for the delay? Maybe that's what you want, but that's not gonna happen. Because one man, when you've scratched him, you've drained him, you've finally scratched his skin, there's nothing more to take from him! All you can do is give him the edge so he can come to his senses so you can scrape him again and skin him. Isn't that what you said in a fairy tale?! I would like, Madam Minister, and all those who are very tempted by the measures to be taken in support of the people to tell me: have they read and seen the measures that are being implemented in Italy and Germany? Are there such measures in place to postpone payments of household accounts, credit payments and so on? Unlike you, and perhaps like you, I will welcome all who have done so. I have made a very serious inquiry among all kinds of people - employers, workers. I can get my phone out of the stands and read you what people write. And what we offer is one of people's expectations to do this thing.. because of elderly people who can't go or shouldn't go at all to the billing points, whether it's for those who are struggling to pay those bills. But we have to make a gesture to these people! It is clear to everyone that the price for this crisis, for this pandemic, epidemic and for the crisis that will follow it must be borne by everyone, but why does the state abdicate from taking it? In the Bill we were looking at before our bill, I did not see in it any commitment of the state! There is a transfer of responsibilities to this community, to that community, to the people, to the employer, to workers, only I didn't see where the state is and what will the state be involved with? Perhaps in the absorption of some there, you are a billion or a million euros, which, yet unknown, will be spent. Look, these people need to be paid attention. So I asked for two things: are there these measures in other countries that apply anti-crisis measures, the closest to us in Europe and the most affected? Mrs. Petkova, do you give up the words you said, and are they different from what BSP has to offer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? Colleagues, let me just ask: will there be any other speeches after Mr. Gokov? [[Heckling]] There will be, okay. I would like to announce that 15 minutes after the debate is over here in the Chamber, we will vote so that you can navigate, colleagues, not all of you sit so tightly in the Chamber. [[Noise and lines.]] Fifteen minutes after the debate is over, so you can move to the hall. You say five minutes? [[Noise and lines.]] All right, five minutes after the debate is over. Is there, first of all, a line to Mr. Gokov's statement? I can't see. Madam Secretary, you? Later, okay. You have a statement, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u91	Dear Madam President, ladies ministers, honourable Members! Nothing unexpected from the debate on this bill begins a series of.. so we predict from debates on similar bills. Of course, they are done, according to our judgment, with the desire to help people. However, our assessment of this bill is not so... [[(Reply from GERB: A decision is not a bill!]] Decision, okay. ...the draft decision is not because we believe that this will not achieve these goals, but we will achieve other things. Firstly, I closely monitor the statements of the parliamentary group which is the importer of the bill, of the colleagues of this parliamentary group. There's talk here about helping the most vulnerable part of society, talking about how the socially weak can't pay the bills. It certainly is, but the solution is not for the most vulnerable part of society, nor for the socially weak, and it is simply for everyone, that it is easier. Do they all need it, and does it have to be done for everyone? The answer is, of course not! And the importers know it very well. Secondly, arguments about how all over the world is being helped. Colleagues, last week I have been dealing with an analysis of the measures that governments are doing in Europe, in support of the crisis, against the pandemic and in support of business and people. First, the main measures are aimed at business. Why? Because that's how direct and direct people are helped. The philosophy of our Parliament group, of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, is: we will mainly support such measures. Of course, concrete measures to certain groups of people too, but basic measures to support business. Why? Because when we keep jobs and wages, everything will be okay for the people. At this low unemployment rate, at this high level of employment, which we entered into the crisis, of course, our main objective must be to keep jobs, which means that we must preserve the majority of the financial resources we have for measures in this direction. This does not exclude in any way support from certain social groups, nor does it exclude certain measures to support people, but not precisely those. What will make this decision? I'll stop in a moment, but I'll finish thinking about the measures that other governments make. All governments have made a special fund to combat the crisis at different sizes. Italy 25 billion, Germany 12, Spain and so on. To tell you why they made this fund. In order to allocate the money to the state that is needed for the functioning of the systems by the end of the year, no matter how long the crisis lasts, from the funds that can be imposed as measures against the crisis. Fund! All of them did so, no exceptions. Make it clear that 25 billion and not a penny more, 12 billion and not a penny more, 10 billion, because the rest need to be in order for the state to function. We didn't do that until now, the government didn't do it. We're waiting! We will insist that this happens. But the main measures, the first measures made by other governments, are aimed at supporting the liquidity of the commercial companies through lending, by delaying lending, through concrete measures, through tax temporary vacations, through a moratorium on certain payments. The liquidity! This decision will reduce liquidity in several Bulgarian sectors. Quite the opposite of what they do in Europe. Absolutely! I can argue with any economist from the Left. [[Heckling]] You don't have to! Plus, no one's saying how long the crisis will last. In return, however, there are forecasts and there is no forecast that is less than three months. On the contrary, most forecasts are by the autumn and the end of the year. And here we read that: until the end of a month from the cancellation of the emergency situation, which, if the crisis continues, we will prolong it. This is the logic of the battle with this crisis. Can you imagine six months plus one month? It ends with the liquidity in four or five sectors, huge! They will, of course, end with the liquidity of all their accompanying industries. That's not the measure. If we're going to help the socially weak, the vulnerable part of society, let us introduce a bill that will really help them. If we have to give them concrete help, concrete payment and so on, okay, we're open, but such a blank solution for a moratorium on suspension one month after the end of... That's not it, I'm sorry, it's not serious! I understand the good wishes. I refrain from serious criticism. I appreciate the good wishes, but that's not enough to give our support. The DPS Parliamentary Group will abstain from this decision precisely for this reason, for the arguments I have put forward and for the fact that it is still a desire to help. Let us accept the decision at first reading and then we will fix it, I do not know the solution of two readings is accepted?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u92	No, on one.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u93	On one! There's nothing to fix. For this reason, I call on, on behalf of our parliamentary group, thinking about measures against the crisis, to really see what other countries, the big ones, are doing. They set a good example. There are measures for people, the main measures are for business, because business gives people jobs. That's what we should be trying to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u94	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Mr. Svilensky has the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Ministers! Dear Mr. Tsonev, I allow myself to give you a line, not for the economic part, but for the political part. When you say that it is economic, you say that this decision will violate the liquidity of entire industries, that I would accept if we discussed it in a normal situation, not a state of emergency, not a disaster or some crisis. In this case, the liquidity of Bulgarian citizens is violated. And as much as we close our eyes that this thing is happening, in just a few months all these industries will be closed not for the reason that there is this solution, but for the reason that there is no decision that Bulgarian citizens cannot pay their bills. It's the truth! Whether it exists or not, the result is the same. The question is whether it will be bigger with interest rates or smaller. You're right. Our parliamentary group takes care of the underprivileged, these socially weak people, those with low incomes. [[noise and lines]] , those who will be released and are already released, those who cannot pay their bills. For others, for business, I know there are a lot of parliamentary groups in this room that are concerned. We also care, but in this situation we have a priority for this group of people, and that is why we are making this decision. Again, if you see any flaw that allows you to compromise and fix it, but accept it to give this sign in this difficult situation is good. If not, there's no way. Every political power has its right and responsibility to its constituents, of course. Again, the crisis must be looked at above everything and who it hits most. Of course, if everyone stops paying the bills, these industries will be the worst, but they will anyway stop with or without this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u96	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Second line? [[Noise and lines.]] Here you go, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Tsonev, in your speech you are talking about help and because it is the easiest way to do it, let us help everyone. What does "help" mean? Help means giving someone a chance not to pay their bills at all. Isn't that right? We're not suggesting that. What we offer, I rather accept it as not punishing those who, for reasons beyond their control, are left unemployed, hence without funds, and cannot pay. And now let's turn off their phones and turn off their power! It's more like no extra punishment for these. Yes, in my statement just now, I said that there will probably be those unscrupulous ones who will benefit from it, but eventually each one will have to pay sooner or later these bills. And here we come about the liquidity you're talking about. Yes, it is important the liquidity of the companies that supply telecommunications services or electricity, but it is also important the liquidity of the Bulgarian citizens, especially those who are affected. I have no doubt about the liquidity, not to list the names of the telecommunications operators or the power supplies, they have the strength to last two or three months at any such rate of work. So it doesn't matter to us the liquidity of these companies. We do not want their interests to be harmed in any way, but at a time when the whole society, each of us, is talking about solidarity, talking about humanity, because this is one way to deal with this crisis, with this pandemic that leads us to provide assistance, not even to help, to those who really cannot handle it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u98	Thank you, dear Mr. Prodanov. Here's a third line, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u99	Dear Madam President, ladies ministers, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Tsonev, I do not claim to have your economic training, but I think as an ordinary citizen. Now people, as the state's leadership is expressing, are asocialized. The calls are for them to stay at home, namely when they are standing at home, the consumption of this type of service is increased precisely, for which we plead that payments should be postponed over time, the consumption of electricity, the consumption of natural gas, the consumption of telecommunications services, because they constantly ask their relatives how they are, ringing everywhere and so on and so forth. This is also the point of our proposal for this increased consumption payment to be postponed in time so that these people can now feel a little calm. How would you respond to this proposal of mine - precisely because of increased consumption - not to increase the revenues of these companies, and to at least delay them in time without interest? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u100	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u101	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, the lines were actually in the same direction. I'll take the liberty of answering in general. Obviously, one part of my speech is misunderstood, another part is simply misinterpreted deliberately. Of course we're thinking about people! Of course, it is not a monopoly of the Bulgarian Socialist Party to think about people! You really want it to be your monopoly, but it's not because the legislation in the last 30 years that the DPS has been involved in is proof that it's not just your monopoly! The question is, how do you achieve one goal? The least you had to do in this decision is not drive us here, from the stands, fix it, but target it at least. It's the least you could do! The second thing you had to do was set some deadlines. Not a month after, but to say what. Third, you could have dropped the interest. You could have said which groups and so on. This decision could have looked quite differently if we wanted to help the socially weak and if we wanted not to prevent the economy from helping the socially weak, because we believe according to the economic thinking of the parliamentary group that the main lever to help people is by keeping their jobs, first. First of all! Absolutely first and unconditionally first, then take all the other measures! Besides the job, besides the salary, what else can we do? This has to happen in a complex. The state of emergency has not yet been announced, and we are blooming with the first measure to the entire society to have the opportunity, if you wish, not to pay?! Because that's what the decision says if you want, don't pay for now when you want, then. Our disagreements, expressed immodestly by me, are so. Don't claim such monopolies, first! And second of all, let's work it out! I'm trying to do that. I don't think that we will basically protect the business, as one of our colleagues has tried, I think that Mr. Svilensky, to say that there are many business defenders here and only one of the people. No! We intend to try to protect people by protecting their jobs through business in the first place, and then other things! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u102	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Statements? [[Loud noise and lines.]] Mr. Ivanov wanted me to come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u103	Madam President, ladies ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! At the outset, I would like to point out that I am neither, nor can I be a participant in the debate that is being held in plenary on the subject of the draft decision, but I believe that as Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, it would be useful for each of you to hear the information that I want to submit. This information will probably help you to take a reasoned, informed decision on how to vote. Before I give the specific data relating to the financial framework, specifically to point (a) of this paragraph. Two of the draft decision, I'd like to point out a few things. First of all, the data that I will quote is data for all domestic users, because the scope of the Project decision is precisely for all domestic users and not for a separate segment of them, whatever it is. Secondly, the data is not forecast. They are based on the latest annual reports from all the companies that I will quote, which means that they are of absolute confidence and every single data is supported by the relevant documents and has been at the heart of the decisions that the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission has taken and continues to take. Thirdly, I would like to say that monthly averaged data will be given, of course, from the text of the decision, it is understood that, if the emergency situation continues by more than one month, the data should, naturally, be multiplied by the number of months that will be affected. So, the draft decision concerns the payment of electricity, heat and water bills. Telecommunications services are not covered by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Regarding the payment of the electricity bills, I will quote the amounts that are receipts to the relevant electricity supply companies when Bulgarian consumers pay these bills. It's 71 million to CEZ a month. BGN, to EVN " 63 million Five hundred thousand. BGN, and to Energo-Pro 44 million BGN, which totals 178 million. lv. The funds to be taken into account in these companies. Of these, they retain only 2%, after which the financial flow goes to network operators, I mean the electricity distribution companies, where access and transmission charges are paid to the transmission operator ESO, where the same charges are paid for the transmission network, but the very majority of these funds go to the National Electricity Company, NEK, which pays for electricity producers. Of these producers, I cannot, and I do not have the time to quote them all, but I will only refer to one of them, these are the thermal power plants. You know that they produce between 43 and 47% of the electricity, especially during these months. They need to receive these funds because they have both fixed and variable costs. The two US power plants, according to the contract, which was concluded with the National Electricity Company in 2016, are committed by NEK for monthly payment of their electricity, which will be risky not to happen when consumers fail to pay. It is particularly important that the state-owned Maritsa TPP, which is already in serious financial condition if it does not receive these funds, will not in any way be able to repay with the Mini Maritsa East and the miners who are waiting for their salaries. In a word, the stability of our electricity system will be put at great risk because electricity is absolutely necessary both for every consumer and for the Bulgarian business. And when production is stopped, they won't be interested in whose reason, but they'll just block the whole country. Regarding the second segment, this is the heat pay. I can't give you data on all the heat companies and I will only quote Sofia's Toplofication. She gets 36 million a month. lv. revenue for consumption by consumers of heat. At the same time, if the pay is violated to Sofia's Toplofication, it will not be able to pay for its natural gas to the public supplier Bulgargaz. And here is something that is very important that the amount of natural gas to be delivered must be paid to the external supplier before the beginning of each month. You yourself understand that if this cannot be done, you risk the supply of natural gas to the country. And finally, about the water bills. In total, water operators within the year collect revenues of 638 million. BGN, which makes the month 53 million. Possible non-payment of these accounts risks missing any means to improve the water supply network that you have found yourself, as well as the regulator, that it is in a very difficult state and requires support. On this occasion, I would point out that only what I have listed so far makes a financial framework of 250 million. If the state of emergency lasts for three months, along with one month, which is set in the Decision, this will give a total of over 1 billion. lv. These funds, honourable Members, are necessary in order for all really nodes to exist, such as the blood system for the country, the electricity system, the heat supply systems, as well as the water system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u104	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Procedure was requested by Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I am making a procedural proposal to extend the time until the end of the vote on point 1 and point 2 of today's agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u106	Thank you. Voting regime on the procedural proposal made. They voted 146 MPs: 134, against 3, abstention 9. The offer is accepted. Mr. Svilensky's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, I will make a procedure for separate voting on both points and I will give only one argument. On 17 March 2020, Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy, said on national media that there will be no blackout due to unpaid bills. That's what we're offering at the first point. I therefore ask for a separate vote so that the entire National Assembly is able to support the Minister of Energy through our proposal for a decision at point one, and for point two, I now leave to the conscience of each Member of the National Assembly. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u108	Just to clarify, Mr. Svilensky. First point of the Decision Project there is a proposal from Mr. Ermenkov. [[Definitions between the President and the National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] We don't even have to vote on the procedural proposal, I'm going to put it to a separate vote. We'll continue with the speeches, colleagues. Is there anyone else who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I will now ask the Quaestors to invite the MPs. We will vote on the first proposal, then we will vote... By the way, the draft decision was not presented. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u109	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I want to thank you for the debate. I would like to thank for the arguments that have been put forward and to say what unites us and what is common in terms of both the decision that BSP colleagues propose and the amendments to the Law that we propose as a government and what colleagues from other parliamentary represented political forces have pointed out. The most important thing and common between all these proposals and this whole debate is that all our efforts are aimed at making Bulgarian citizens feel secure, feeling concerned in this situation, which we all understand is exceptional and puts us in an unusual situation where we need to make quick decisions, but in no case should these quick decisions be incorrect and hasty. I have heard many arguments from colleagues and from the BSP on what they propose and on what I have expressed as an opinion and as a position within these days. Now I'm going to try to justify why I'm not denying what I said. I will try to explain the difference between what the government proposes as measures and what I see in the draft decision of colleagues from the Bulgarian Socialist Party. First of all, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the decision proposed to impose a moratorium is based on art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution. The lyrics in this decision sound imperative. There is no mention of the fact that there may be a moratorium on the accounts of a certain category of persons, which you are now explaining. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 86, para. 2 of the Constitution says that all decisions of the National Assembly have the power of law, both for state institutions and for all citizens. That is, if we accept the Decision in this way, so formulated, we say to the Bulgarian citizens: "We owe you not to pay your bills! " - This is what we say.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u110	Moratorium on blackout is not for the bills.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u111	Excuse me? No, that's what you're saying... [[Heckling]] There is no right, the text is imperative. The text is imperative and it says... [[Noise and lines.]] I see her, of course, I see her.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u112	Guys, please be quiet! If you want, then I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u113	The text in the draft decision is imperative and if it is adopted, it becomes a law, it has the power of law. So we say to everyone: you won't pay your bills! We're not gonna shut down the power supply if we don't pay our bills. What does that mean? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] But not if you do. For non-payment of accounts, the power supply shall not be cut off. That is what your proposal for a moratorium says. So, ladies and gentlemen, the main difference between the draft decision that you are proposing, colleagues from the BSP, and what the government is proposing as measures is that the aim that we are proposing with the measures that we have been able to negotiate with both colleagues from the electricity distribution companies and with the Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission in the first place guarantees equality of all entities, all Bulgarian citizens, and, secondly, enables us to achieve the ultimate goal that you want to achieve. We propose doubling the deadline for paying the bills, which is now 10 days, we propose that it be 20 days, as in the proposal we have made for a change in the Law, it is explicitly written that this deadline will be extended as long as necessary. Within this period neither the power supply of electricity can be stopped because Mr Svilenski raised the question of what I said and made a proposal for a vote within that period, when it was extended, there is no way that the relevant domestic or business user would fail to comply with the relevant electricity distribution company, be charged interest and its power supply would be cut off. So my call and my request is to really unite in this difficult, difficult situation and see what the government proposes as measures such as a change in the Law. Of course, if there are any proposals you wish to make, they will certainly be discussed and analyzed, but we should not try to play with the subject energy. Let's not forget the most important energy is part of national security. It should not be in this situation and Mr. Ivanov pointed out what the risks are if you go along this plane and in this direction, and the colleagues expressed their position "energy" very clearly is national security. Let's not play this topic. Let us unite our efforts really just as we have so far shown that in difficult times we all find the strength to stand together against such a challenge that Bulgaria and the world are facing. But let us not allow inter-company debt to be reached in such an important sector as the energy sector "4 million." Nine hundred and seventy-seven thousand. are the subscribers of electricity in Bulgaria, 4 million. 501,000. are the household users. If we tell these people, we oblige you with a decision that has the power of law...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u114	These are suggestions, we don't oblige them.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u115	...what happens next? How's the sector gonna hold up? How will Bulgarian energy endure? How will Bulgarian energy endure in order to be adequate to do its job and provide the necessary amounts of energy? Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, my call is: look at the proposals we make! These proposals fully protect the interests of Bulgarian citizens and achieve the ultimate goal of really making people feel calm and protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u116	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I understand that a little on the edge of the Rules of Procedure I will present the Decision, but I can't help but disprove Minister Petkova, because nowhere in our decision... [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] Colleagues! We are going to vote and we need to know what we are voting on. Nowhere in our decision is there a moratorium on non-payment of accounts. There's no such thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u118	Present the solution, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u119	What Minister Petkova proposes is a ten-day extension of the deadline when the government decides, and that is acceptable. We say "stopping for one month after the emergency situation" and that's unacceptable?! Nobody obliges the citizens. Project! DECISION for a moratorium on the suspension of the supply of electricity, heat, water, domestic telecommunications services due to non-payment of due accounts. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to the state of emergency announced by the National Assembly Decision of 13 March 2020 throughout the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Until one month from the cancellation of the emergency situation: "1." A moratorium is imposed on the suspension of the supply of electricity, heat, water and telecommunications services for domestic consumption due to non-payment of undue accounts. Nowhere! "2." Time limits shall be suspended for the performance of consumer obligations under contracts for the supply of electricity, heat, water or telecommunication services for domestic consumption. Nowhere in the Decision is there a moratorium on the payment of accounts. The decision is the same as you propose, Mrs. Petkova, only it is written in a decision of the National Assembly, voted by the Members of the National Assembly and for a longer period. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u120	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. To be honest, I was expecting Mr. Ermenkov's amendment decision so I wouldn't put them to the vote separately, but now I have to. Minister Avramova, you wanted the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u121	Madam President, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Before you take your decision on the upcoming vote, I would like to present to your attention the opinion that the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works has formed on the proposals you have given by the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. We believe that this decision is unacceptable and inadequate enough measure, and the effect of such a decision will bring more negatives to society than positives. I would like to stress that, at present, companies, contracting services, electricity and water have made a commitment to society for a tolerant attitude.. this has been presented at a briefing by me and Minister Petkova. In addition, I ask you, when making your decision, to take into account the following: and at present, in the general terms and conditions for providing water services by the companies with the object of activity, the water supply and sewerage sectors have been described in detail and consistently the steps for using the services up to the time of their payment due by the subscribers. The cessation of water supply is a final measure that applies when all other voluntary payment methods have already been exhausted, especially in the case of subscribers in floor-owner mode, where the applicability of this measure is low-performance. The period from receipt of the service until the possible suspension of access to the service on a legal basis is more than three months. On the part of service providers, a differentiated approach is applied in which enforcement actions are addressed with priority to high debt debtors and to systemically failing debtors companies, large domestic consumers. The introduction of such a measure is not a good signal for both service users and suppliers. Such an approach enables one part of the users to use the conjuncture, where the scope of conscientious payers will shrink further. Revenues to companies will be reduced and maintained over time, which in turn means increasing inter-company debt, delay or deferred income growth, staff cuts, negative consequences. I will take occasion from Mr. Tsonev's statement that our priority is to keep the jobs of the employees in the water sector, thereby ensuring continuity of the supply of drinking water for the population at this critical time. Due to the proposals already launched in the public domain to postpone payments, for a moratorium on the suspension of supply, companies........................................ have already reported a tendency to reduce their revenues. These data are an indication of the deepening of the existing and to date the main problem of the water operators. As of 31 December 2018, the average recovery rate of claims was 0.88%. From today's conversation with several water operators, I would like to tell you that payments of water bills, firstly, have already been very serious in the settlements, that there will be a moratorium on payments, so spread among people, payments of water bills at present are from 30 to 50% by February 2020. This means that only the debates on this topic and the public distribution of the idea of a moratorium on payments and water and electricity stops already have negative consequences in the payment to the water companies. In these companies work people who are on the field every day and in this crisis situation they are trying not to stop water to consumers. Let's keep these people alive and ensure the normal existence of the water operators. I believe that this is our responsibility in the crisis. I believe that the measures that have been proposed are rather emotional, without sufficiently thorough consideration for their consequences. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u122	No qualifications!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u123	Mr. Popov!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u124	I believe that making Bulgarian consumers owe not one, but two and three bills, because in time we will give them a moratorium on payment and they will accumulate this debt to the utility companies, rather will make these people overdebted in three months and will rather make them customers of the fast loans companies. We are probably not looking for this solution with this particular effect. I appeal to all representatives of all parties in the National Assembly for a responsible decision so as to enable all operators to perform the services at this time, to be able to submit them to the public because these are public services with regulated prices and the water operators expect these receipts to be able to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u125	Thank you, dear Minister. Are there any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. We vote at 2:10. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Colleagues, I'm in charge of the hearing, but I'm receiving instructions. Let's be honest. [[Radio.]] This was a proposal so that all MPs could enter the Chamber, and just in case, I will invite them in. I put to the vote a bill on measures during the emergency situation announced by decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, No 054-01-24, submitted by the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs. They voted 199 MPs: 129, none, abstention 70. The motion is accepted. Go ahead, Mr. Tsipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Madam President! As a result of the understanding of the morning Presidency Council, I am making a procedure for proposals under the newly adopted bill to be made by 18.00 in the framework of today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u127	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. 195 MPs voted: 193, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the draft decision for a moratorium on the suspension of the submission of heat, water and telecommunications services for domestic consumption due to the non-payment of due accounts. First, I put to the vote the editorial amendment proposed by the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov. Vote 197 MPs: for 73, against 12, abstention 112. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the first item of the draft decision presented to you. Vote 194 MPs: 71 against 6, abstention 117. The offer is not accepted. I now put to the vote a second point of your presented draft decision. Vote 194 MPs: 68 against 4, abstention 122. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Popov, second-point revoting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm asking for a re-vote procedure. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-18.u129	I'm going to rethink this. 2 of the submitted draft decision. They voted 191 MPs: for 67, against 20, abstention 104. The offer is not accepted. Dear Members of Parliament, the National Assembly's committees will work tomorrow. The next regular plenary session will be on 20 March 2020 at 9.00 in accordance with the adopted work programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
