ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! [[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Mr. Gurnevsky, come in on behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u2	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Bulgarians who have suffered from the communist regime! [[Noise and lines.]] Tomorrow, on February 1st, 75 years of the People's Court, operated in the Kingdom of Bulgaria from December 1944 until April 1945. In fact, he played the role of the actual authority of the left-wing revolutionary terror in an absolute opposition and contradiction to the Tarnovo Constitution. The main goal was to eradicate the possible political opponents of the regime established after the occupation of Bulgaria by the Red Army. On 1 February the People's Court sentenced to death and killed the Regents Prince Cyril, Bogdan Filov and General Nikola Mihov the same day. Sixty-seven MPs, escorted by Schmeisers from this hall, 22 ministers, 48 generals and colonels, eight royal advisors were shot at a Bolshevik patent with gunshots to the back of the head. The three thugs who controlled the shooting were Ferdinand Kosovski, who will later become President of the National Assembly, Isidor Levi, a executioner investigator, special agent of Lavrentius Beria from the Bolshevik NKVD, and Lev Glavinchev, a sadist involved in many communist atrocities before 1944. During the red terror over the years and with the exoduss in the communist concentration camps, tens of thousands of people have died and their families have been displaced, humiliated and debased, physically and spiritually treated as people unreliable according to art. 1 of the Communist Constitution. After this unheard bloody genocide of Bulgarians against Bulgarians the history of BCP is already known to everyone. After the establishment and domination of the single 45-year rule of the communist nomenclature, the most stable country in the Balkans in pre-war 1939. Bulgaria is led to a comprehensive and factual bankruptcy. The bankruptcy was officially announced by communist Prime Minister Andrey Lukanov in 1990 with the moratorium imposed on the country's external debt. Far before that, however, the BCP's mother party has taken measures to rob state assets through foreign trading companies, in which there is, of course, experience and today's President of BSP to repaint as BSP, to plunder through his secure State Security the savings of the people through bank failures. Thus the comrades benefiting from art. 1 of the Constitution and rich from the robberies rush into criminal privatization. Recently, the MP from BSP Ivo Hristov himself, who considers 80% of the Bulgarians to be retards, admitted publicly and quotes him: the Nomenclature of the BCP and the DS cops have dismantled the state and embezzled the assets created by blood and sweat from the Bulgarian people in those 45 years. Today the former comrades and comrades from the nomenclature are exquisite ladies and gentlemen, happy and wealthy representatives of the newly wealthy capitalist establishment in Bulgaria, launched in the social and political life their overflowing children and grandchildren with self-esteem. The proud heirs of communist insolence and arrogance daily and populist demand from the National Assembly's stand for social justice, for higher wages and pensions, higher incomes, but do not say how lower they were in the years of their governments....................................................................................................... for more funds for more funds for the disabled by the disabled by the Bulgarian government....................................................................................................................... Alien ecology wants to, though, forget what they've bequeathed to us. They're talking about water, and it's crystal clear! And who bequeathed the depreciated carcinogenic water supply network of over 90 thousand. A mile away before the death of socialism, broken underground? Over 70% of Bulgaria's clean drinking water leaked into it. They demand clean food and fresh air! And who hid from the Bulgarian people on 26 April 1986 about the Chernobyl disaster and did not warn our people to protect themselves? At that time the BCP nomenclature was provided with ecological food, supplies at the homes of the Communist Gauleiters! And I ask you, Comrade Ninova: now or then our people were forced by your party to breathe cancer and drink poison?! Those who are lost in luxury, demagogy and anti-Bulgarianism today want, insist, promise and always in the name of the people, which their party robbed and brought to the begging staff, but never give the same benefits when they rule. Come on, just give back 30% of what was robbed during the criminal transition and the people's halitosis will be sensitively different. Yes, but you have another vision the state is stable, there is money in the treasury for a rainy day. If you can get your hands on them, it's very important that you take the white bus after that, when, as always, you get kicked out of the station with rocks?! When you have played the role of purified cherubs for 30 years, of white angels, know that none of your sins have been forgotten. You are yet to pay enough bills to the people, and quite thick. You can't lie anymore, you can't hide! That's not the time! There's no killing! Sin masks are torn down by your faces, your sins pulsate telltaleally in your hearts. Christianly, you have only one chance left: to kneel before the people and ask forgiveness for all the outrage, for every drop of blood, no matter who has sinned last and who has wronged first! Only then do you have a way out, and one: to ask to forgive you Bulgaria! And if he does, God must also whisper: Amen! Bow to the memory of the Red Terror victims! [[Applause from GERB and OP. Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Gurnevsky. Mr. Simov, come in for a statement on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! Respect for Mr. Gurnevsky's poetic imagination. I've been listening to what he's saying, and it's always weird for me how... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u5	Mr. Simov, on behalf of a group...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u6	...anti-communist essays can read a man who wrote poems in praise of communism!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u7	Is this on behalf of a parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u8	I'm speaking on behalf of the group. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u9	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u10	It's always amazing to me how a proletarian poet can afford such stylisticism. [[Heckling]] It is especially this poetic imagination that describes Bulgaria as a state of stability, prosperity and ascension. Two governments of Boyko Borisov fall because of street protests and the third is about to fall because Bulgaria is on the streets! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Where did we see this stability?! Where did we see this prosperity?! [[Loud noise and lines.]] Where is this economic rise?! Only two days ago people were here in front of parliament to ask for once again the resignation of Boyko Borisov, and in the meantime we will read enthusiastic essays, as they used to read in the glory of communism, now we read them to brush Boyko Borisov's ego. This is part of the problem of modern Bulgaria - such immoral, precisely such purely ethical perverse statements!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u11	Mr. Simov!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u12	Every victim of a political regime in Bulgaria deserves our respect. We pay our respects to all those who have died because of political violence. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It is high time, however, that we stopped digging through these people's bones to accumulate political dividends. This is the biggest fuck with them we can afford. We are constantly talking about national agreement, we are constantly talking about having a common vision of the past. Just a few days ago, last week in parliament MEPs from GERB said that we should give each other a hand to solve the problems. Stop using history, remove your dirty prints from it, because it is bullying with every past of Bulgaria! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Simov. [[National Representative Spas Gurnevski wants a personal explanation. Replices.]] No, Mr. Gurnevsky, I won't give you a personal explanation. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, let's continue working on today's agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LEGISLATION LAW AND ADcompLIVERY OF THE REGIOAL DEVELOPMENT LAW With the Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, Mr. Veselinov will introduce us.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u14	Madam President, before I introduce you to the Report, allow me a procedure for the admission of Deputy Minister Jovev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u15	Please vote on the procedure so made. They voted 149 MPs: 143, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guest to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u16	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government At an extraordinary meeting held on 29 January 2020, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Regional Development, No 002-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2020. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mr. Ivaylo Stoyanov, Head of Sector at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. He noted that the main reason for the proposed changes in the Law on Regional Development are the conclusions of an analysis of the existing national policy for regional and spatial development. The conclusions of this analysis in the field of overcoming interregional and intra-regional differences and inequalities show insufficient effectiveness in the measures taken, a large number of strategic documents, an ineffective mechanism for control and evaluation of strategic documents, additional administrative burden in collecting and processing information for the purposes of regional and spatial development, as well as the presence of large disproportions in the development and lag of the Bulgarian regions on key socio-economic indicators compared to the other countries of the European Union. The aim of the proposed changes is to optimize the planning processes of regional and spatial development, bringing them closer and more effectively coordinated, and to make better use of the accumulated common base of information resources and capacity. Changes are proposed aimed at reducing the number of strategic documents, ensuring links and interactions between strategic documents for regional and spatial development, as well as other sectoral documents at relevant levels, simplifying the monitoring, control and evaluation process, clarifying the composition, responsibilities and functions of regional development management units in accordance with the requirement to increase the efficiency and efficiency of their work. The Bill also provides for a change in the structure, composition and competences of regional development councils, which will include management and expert staff. It is expected that the new strategic documents will improve coordination with other sectoral documents at relevant levels, will lead to an improved and simplified monitoring, control and evaluation process, as well as to a reduced administrative burden and volume of information collected and processed for regional and spatial development purposes. The Commission was presented with an opinion from the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, which made concrete proposals for the clarification of individual provisions in the Draft Law. During the discussion, some of the MPs who spoke supported the bill in principle, while all drew attention to the need to substantially revise the provisions relating to the status, composition, functions and powers of regional development councils between the two votes. On the basis of the discussions and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 12 votes in favour of the Council of Ministers and 9 votes in abstention, proposed to the National Assembly a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Law on Regional Development, No 002-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u17	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. To present the report of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, please come in, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u18	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Regional Development submitted by the Council of Ministers The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 22 January 2020, examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Regional Development Act. The meeting was attended by Denitsa Nikolova, Deputy Minister at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, and Ivaylo Stoyanov, expert at the same ministry. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Denitsa Nikolova. The reason for the proposed changes to the Law on Regional Development are the conclusions of an analysis of the existing national policy for regional and spatial development. The conclusions of this analysis in the field of overcoming interregional and intra-regional differences and inequalities show insufficient effectiveness in the measures taken, a large number of strategic documents, an ineffective mechanism for control and evaluation of strategic documents, additional administrative burden in collecting and processing information for the purposes of regional and spatial development, as well as the presence of large disproportions in the development and lag of the Bulgarian regions on key socio-economic indicators compared to the other countries of the European Union. The slow pace of economic growth, as well as the need to create conditions for a more balanced and sustainable development of the territory, indicate the need to carry out a regulatory change in the legislative framework for regional development and spatial planning, leading to a new and adequate approach to regional policy in the country. The preparation for the next Programme Period 2021 and the use of the ESI Funds may be an accelerator of the change in the model for the implementation of regional policy through closer integration of sectoral priorities and objectives with those of regional development policy. The aim of the Bill is to optimize the planning processes of regional and spatial development, bringing them closer and coordinated more effectively, and to better use the accumulated common base of information resources and capacity. The expected results of the implementation of the Bill are: 1. A reduced number of strategic documents with a clear focus and focused on specific objectives with increased content, efficiency and applicability. 2. Clear links and targeted interactions between strategic documents for regional and spatial development, as well as with other sectoral documents at relevant levels. 3. Improved and simplified monitoring, control and evaluation process for regional development strategic documents, reduced administrative burden and volume of information collected and processed for regional and spatial development purposes. 4. Introduction of an information platform for regional policy purposes. 5. Redesigned configurations, responsibilities and functions of regional development management units in accordance with the requirement to increase the efficiency and efficiency of their work. In the area of interest of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee is the amendment of the Employment Promotion Act. Four members are changed, with new definitions and definitions found in them, with which the Law on Regional Development will work in the future. A partial preliminary assessment of the impact of the Bill has been applied to the Bill. The discussion was attended by the MPs Violeta Jeleva, Milko Nedyalkov, Nadia Klisurska, Nikolai Ivanov and Hassan Ademov. The statements showed the concern of the MPs that the Bill was late, that many of the evaluations had a wishful thinking that the document was formal. A concern was expressed that the Bill does not ensure continuity with the current rules and order and that there are no trained experts in the areas to implement the new strategic documents. In response to the numerous questions Deputy Minister Nikolova pointed out that the proposed amendments to the Law on Regional Development will introduce a new type of documents that unite the strategic and spatial planning of regional development. Proposals for a change in the system of strategic regional and spatial planning documents are justified by the proven complexity, re-egregation of scope and content and inefficiency in their preparation and implementation so far. The reduction of the number of documents and the simplification of their content in order to focus on solving the specific and specific problems of the respective territories are accompanied by the unification of the problems of regional and spatial planning. The new strategic documents will improve coordination with other sectoral documents at relevant levels, will lead to an improved and simplified monitoring, control and evaluation process, as well as to a reduced administrative burden and volume of information collected and processed for regional and spatial development purposes. A change is envisaged in the structure of regional development councils, which will include management and expert staff. After the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 13 votes for the vote, without abstention and 5 votes, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy adopted the following opinion: it proposes to the National Assembly to support the first vote Draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Regional Development, No 002-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. The report of the Committee on Environment and Water remains. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Environment and Waters on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Regional Development Act No 002-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2020. At a regular meeting held on 23 January 2020, the Environment and Water Commission examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Regional Development Act No 002-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2020. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works: Ms. Denitsa Nikolova On behalf of the importers, the bill and the reasons for its adoption were presented by Deputy Minister Denitsa Nikolova. The aim of the Bill is to achieve optimization of the planning processes of regional and spatial development, and they come closer and coordinate more effectively. The amendments are related to a change in the hierarchic structure of strategic documents. A more effective monitoring, control and evaluation of strategic documents shall be given. A change is envisaged in the structure of regional development councils, which will include management and expert compositions. Their powers are extended by allowing them to participate in decision-making for investments at regional level, including with European funds. The bill aims to achieve a more effective implementation of regional policy, which will be more clearly focused on areas and areas that need support. Expectations are for a direct participation of local authorities in the implementation of targeted investment policy. Attitudes on the submitted bill took the MPs Ivelina Vassileva, Manol Genov, Rumen Georgiev and Dzhevdet Chakarov. Issues have been raised regarding: the scope of Level 2 regions and integrated regional projects, which will focus in the next programming period, how the selection, implementation and monitoring of projects will be carried out, what will be the role and functions of regional councils and will they have the necessary expertise to assess the projects, will the envisaged three evaluation stages not lead to blocking the work of the administration and delay in the implementation of the projects, and will the next programming period work towards levelling the standards of the regions? The importers clarified that the Draft Law does not provide for a change in the scope of Level 2 areas. For the first time, the integrated territorial investment model will be applied and an integrated impact on a given territory will be sought. The measures will no longer be divided by sectoral policies, but will apply a complex of measures in all sectors that will lead to a positive economic impact on the territory. The bill provides for a new structure of regional councils at an expert and management level. A clear methodology and criteria will be used to assess concepts at each stage, with the first stage of public acceptance, then the expert assessment of compliance with legislation and criteria will be made. Finally, at the management level will be determined which are the most prioritized projects for a given territory. The European Regulation requires the existence of a regional level to take decisions on projects and to ensure that investments are the most adequate for a given territory. It was clarified that the new model is in the direction of reducing the imbalance between the different regions. Each region shall be given the opportunity to bring forward its main priorities and implement them in such a way as to catch up with the others, in any case taking into account the integrated territorial strategy. After the end of the discussion and the vote held, the Committee on Environment and Waters with 11 votes in favour, without the opposition, and 7 votes in abstention, supported the draft and adopted the following opinion: it proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill of amendment and supplement to the Regional Development Act, No 002-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u21	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vassileva. I'm opening the debate. Honourable Members, you have the floor for speeches. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u22	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll start by saying that this bill was very late. There have been simple attempts over the past two or three years to hold a broad discussion between all stakeholders, state institutions, municipalities, non-governmental sector, business on the outcome of the existing national regional development policy and a new approach to planning. After all, this discussion stopped and was formal. It's been a long time. The main focus was the ideas for new zoning, not the objective analysis of failure in regional policy, the deepening of interregional differences, the overall slowdown of Bulgarian regions on socio-economic indicators compared to other countries in the European Union. An additional result of all of this is the lack of effect of the huge European funds invested, which, apart from having polished the urban environment, did not lead to any change for the Bulgarian citizens. Instead of harnessing the entire scientific, political and civic potential for a radical change in the policy for the regions, this bill has come to this, which is nothing more than a weak pad for the procedure for preparing the new operational programme. Apropo, in the motives of the Bill, the government recognises the failure of the current approach. The bad news is that nothing works and who knows how much new is being offered. Neither the reduced number of strategic documents nor the claims for an improved and simplified process of planning, monitoring, control and evaluation of these same strategic documents for regional development, nor the new hierarchy of decision will lead to a better future for the Bulgarian regions. I'm afraid the effect will be reversed, and with the new functions of regional councils, intra-regional differences will be deepened. The biggest disadvantage of the bill is the refusal of policy towards targeted support areas. It is strange, in recognition of the deepening of the lag of areas with the most severe socio-economic characteristics, not to change the approach and to seek a solution to reduce these severe disproportions. As an MP from such an area, I cannot accept that. It is not possible only with the specific and specific potential of the area concerned and in the absence of targeted support through the Law to achieve anything. It's like drowning to grab his hair and get himself out of the water. The planned new strategic documents at municipality level, called the Integrated Development Plan of the municipality, should unite the characteristics of the previous municipal development plans and integrated plans for urban reconstruction and development. Again, nothing new, and municipalities have long been demotivated to plan long-term. In addition, they will find it difficult to mobilise expert assistance because there is no provision for support for this planning and the risk of a subsequent integration of these plans will blow up the whole idea of the Bill. The change in the structure of regional councils and the extension of their powers is a good step, but only in terms of including and authorising to participate in them the mayors of Level 2 municipalities with voting rights. The major problems here are the blurring of responsibility in the decision-making of such a collective body and the lack of sufficient expertise of regional councils in the light of their new powers. Twice I ask questions about this in the Regional Commission last year, and now during the discussion in the Social Commission: how will the new powers of supervision and control of these regional councils be strengthened, and how will it be successful throughout the preparation of regulations to ensure this expertise? Doesn't that also carry the risk of making decisions in the dark and politically? Indeed, there is an expert body to these regional councils, but its selection is yet to be carried out and their functions will be signed in the Rules of Procedure. From now it is clear that it is impossible in 2020 for all infrastructure under the Bill to be created and the plans of municipalities to be drawn up. This will result in a huge delay in policies at local regional level and the launch of the new operational programme. I will not comment on replacing regions with statistical zones, statistical areas and statistical areas. If this is the innovation in the new approach to adequate policy for the regions, the comment is unnecessary. Our parliamentary group will not support the Bill. We believe that a much wider consensus is needed on a new legislative approach to regional policy. It is clear that there is no such consensus, and the bill that is being proposed to us will only repeat, in our view, the failure of the current regional policy. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there lines? I won't. We continue with the speeches. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I've already asked twice. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] No, I wouldn't agree. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Sorry, guys, you're wrong! When you're right, I'll give you that, but in this case, I've asked a few times. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Please, the Quaestors, invite the MPs to enter the Chamber. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Regional Development, No 002-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers. [[Reply from the National Representative Manol Genov.]] I'm already in voting procedure, Mr. Genov, I'm sorry! Please, voting mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u24	We're gonna ask for your resignation again?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u25	Ask for the resignation, I might file it, but be careful who sits in my seat. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) A line from the National Representative Manol Genov.)]] Take your seat! We're in a voting procedure. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) A line from the National Representative Manol Genov.)]] I see you, Mr. Genov, I'll give you the floor. Let's finish the vote. They voted 167 MPs: for 92, against 51, abstention 24. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u26	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u27	Mr. Genov was before you, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u28	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I voted against it because this law does not decide in detail the imbalances in the regional development of the state. It creates a great risk of politicisation in decision-making when assessing projects. Nowhere in the Law is there any decentralisation you've promised for years and you've done nothing. Finally, Mr. Hristov, you stuck another nail in the coffin of Bulgarian parliamentaryism, apparently in your great desire to bury it. You deprived the MPs of the right to an opinion, of the right to speak on the law so voted. [[Replication by National Representative Anna Alexandrova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u29	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u30	Put order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u31	Go on, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u32	I'm moving on. Make some remarks over there to the vocal coworkers. So your behaviour is extremely unacceptable in this case, in which I repeat once again, you have deprived the Members of the right to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u33	Thank you, Mr. Genov. I don't know if it's me or the MPs who haven't been here. You didn't want to participate, and it wasn't until I announced that we were putting an end to the debate that you started raising your hands. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I will leave the question like this without ending it, but please, from now on, when the host, whoever he is, is making a point of speaking, to be really active, because these are the situations that happen. [[Noise and lines.]] I looked at you a few times. I've asked a few times. That's it! Here you are, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's the way it's supposed to be. Mr. Hristov, I respect you very much, several times I have bailed you out of uncomfortable situations in this Chamber precisely from such decisions of yours that you take, especially when laws are adopted that decide the essence of the regional development of Bulgaria. In my opinion, we all expected GERB representatives of the ruling party to come out of this tribune and explain why and in what way they want to create an intermediate structure; where will the funds for this structure be; what will be this political formation that will be the relevant barrier for projects from municipalities that should be presented in the Ministry; who will be these non-governmental organizations that will be included in this structure; and why will your partner, the so-called "United Patriarchs" disagree with this bill, and you in the fastest way ended the conversation? From this conversation, Mr. Hristov, they would have won both GERB and society because they would have heard that what you are doing is a new political formation, a new barrier, such as the Water and Water and the District Administration of Pernik, so that the appropriate decision can not be taken, which will benefit the individual area, and you can go and detain the ministers. That's what I'm talking about! The bill you are proposing today is pure political law. I do not want to talk about lobbying, but political decisions will be made on the relevant projects, which will be presented for the development of the individual region without having a second level of development of the country. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. First of all, thank you personally. Yes, it is true, you have in many cases cooperated with me in difficult situations, and indeed thank you. As far as the situation is concerned, when the Members of the National Assembly have to deal with it, they decide themselves whether or not to take part in a bill. So that concludes this point. Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. We begin with debates on the questions by the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Jello Boychev, Violeta Zhelev and Atanas Kostadinov to the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on the policy of the Ministry of Energy regarding the future of coal thermal power plants in Bulgaria. At the questioning of the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Zhelo Boychev, Violeta Jeleva and Atanas Kostadinov was responsible at the meeting on 24 January 2020, Friday. At the same meeting 64 MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) submitted a proposal for a debate on the questioning, together with a draft decision. The debates are scheduled by the President of the National Assembly for the next parliamentary control meeting. The proposal for debate on the inquiry and the draft decision were sent to the Members of the National Assembly in electronic form on 24 January 2020, Friday. Project for a decision to be voted on and Project for a decision tabled by 64 MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Which of the importers will present the presentation and the proposal for a debate, as well as the Draft Decision? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u36	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! For many of you, the Maritsa East Energy Complex is something you have heard of, but you are hardly familiar with its nature, so you will allow me to start with a little general education. The mine-energy complex of Maritsa East is designed and built on the basis of the largest coal deposits in the Balkans with stocks of more than four billion tonnes. To achieve this wealth, billions of left-wing funds have been invested to their present value. Villages, agricultural and forest areas were estranged, tens of kilometers of canals and dams were built to take the waters of the rivers Ovcharitsa, Selska, Chakarliyska and others, along with their tributaries, outside the field of the field. There were built dozens of electrical substations, high voltage power lines for the supply of the dozens of excavators, insulators, overloaders, rubber transport strips, railway lines, pumps and other equipment operating in the mines. Billions of cubic meters of land mass were excavated to reveal the coal layers for extraction. Tens of kilometers of railways, rubber transport strips needed for the transport of coal to thermal plants have been built. Over the last 15 years, over 1 billion have been invested. EUR for delivery of new diggers for rehabilitation and modernization of existing diggers, insulators, rubber transport strips and railway stations. At present, about two billion tonnes of lignite stocks remain in the field. The value of coal obtained and delivered in the thermal power plant is about nine euros per tonne. Four TPPs are working in the complex: TPP Maritza East 2 "EAD," TPP "Contour Global Maritsa Iztok 3" Plc., TPP "AES Galabovo" Plc. and the oldest and most expensive already "Brickel" EAD. Марица Изстор 2 ИСД is the largest thermal power plant in the Balkans and has 1650 megawatts installed. Over a billion euros have been invested in it in recent years to replace turbines, generators, boilers, electric filters and other facilities with new, modern ones. Modern sero-cleaning facilities are installed that retain more than 97% of sulphur dioxide emissions. The combustion technology of lignite in the new boilers is such that nitrogen dioxide emissions are significantly below the European limit values. Electrofilters retain, notice, 99% of dust emissions. TPP "Contour Global Maritsa Iztok 3" AD is installed with 910 megawatts installed after rehabilitation. In it, as in TPP Maritza East 2, only the buildings are old. All main and auxiliary power plants are new, modern and highly efficient. The treatment facilities retain more than 98% of sulphur emissions. The values of nitrogen compounds and particulates issued are well below European limit values. In order to achieve these parameters, more than 700 million were invested. Euros. TPP AES Galabovo AD is the latest and world level with installed capacity of 670 megawatts. Over 1.3 billion have been invested. EUR in its construction. The emissions of harmful gases are at the lowest values. The purified gases after the electrofilters pass through a cooling tower, where they are finally cleansed of the fine dust particles. Turbo groups are extremely maneuverable and are used by the power system operator to quickly master sudden voltage changes and frequency of electric current in a system as a result of non-rhythmicity in the operation of renewable energy sources. More than 10,000 people are directly involved in the work of the Complex. The main activity of the enterprise in the complex is about 20 thousand people. Calculated, together with families, this makes about 100,000 people who completely or more depend on the functioning of this complex. Can Bulgarian energy afford 3230 megawatts installed or at seven thousand hours of annual production of about 23 billion kilowatt hours of annual electricity production, which makes about 45% of the total electricity production in Bulgaria, without affecting the country's energy security and hence national security? Absolutely not! Can these capacities be replaced by wind or photovoltaic power plants? Theoretically, they can if about 15 thousand megawatt photovoltaics are additionally installed during an annual operation of around 1500 hours or 7,500 megawatt wind power plants with an annual operation of about three thousand hours. In this respect, it must be borne in mind that, firstly, these cannot be base capacities because they have, roughly speaking, a cyclic nature and, secondly, the difference in the price of the energy produced by these RES in times exceeds that of the state power plant Maritsa east 2. Could hydropower plants be an alternative? And here I am. NEK has 2713 megawatts installed in turbine mode and 937 megawatts in pump. But we're all witnessing the water crisis, not to say disaster, and we see what's going on with the water balances in the country. In practice, these capacities cannot be used seven thousand hours a year. It is clear from the foregoing that without coal energy in the long term, we cannot expect to guarantee the country's energy security and hence national security. In addition, there is a huge risk of a social crisis on a national scale if we leave out miners and electricians working in thermal power plants. I have already mentioned that about 100,000 people depend directly or indirectly on the functioning of our coal electricity. Imagine those people out of work hanging on the state budget for welfare and unemployment. On this point, I suppose some of my colleagues will take note. There is another huge risk of the TPP Maritza East 2 falling into actual bankruptcy. According to reports at the end of the first half of 2019, the loss accumulated by the state thermal power plant amounted to 144,9 million. lv. The negative result of the company deteriorated by a further 2.7 million. lv. the first half of 2018, and the company is in serious financial condition. The cost of buying only carbon emissions for the six months of 2019 is up to 192 million. $100,000. lv. In addition, the cost of the Central to the Electricity System Security Fund is estimated to be over 15 million. BGN, it becomes clear from the report. The plant has been in real condition for the second year since it is unable to cover its costs and fully relies on the financial assistance of its owner, the Bulgarian Energy Holding. The total accumulated loss at the half-year of 2019 is already over 800 million. BGN, and debts exceed 1.54 billion. lv. It is certain that by the end of the year, I mean 2019, not only has it not improved, but even worsened. If the state does not intervene, we can certainly argue that this year will be the last for the state power plant. We know that the government has requested permission from the European Commission to increase the company's capital as the only way out of the critical situation. However, there is still no answer from the European Commission, but there is no time to waste either. Based on these facts, realizing that our national interests are above the party interests, we from Coalition BSP for Bulgaria are proposing to unite around the following decision, consisting of two points. I will read you the points without going into the preamble and the others that the President of the National Assembly will read, attributes of one decision. The National Assembly has decided: 1. It obliges the Council of Ministers through the Minister of Energy by 29 February 2020 to take all necessary measures for the normal functioning of the 2. It obliges the Council of Ministers to take all necessary measures to prevent long-term cessation of operation and/or limitation of the production capacity of coal thermal power plants in the Republic of Bulgaria under the conditions of participation in the coal transition platform. 3. The Minister of Energy shall periodically inform the National Assembly of the measures taken and the results achieved. I just want to say that in the preamble, we have based on our sovereign right to guarantee the country's energy security and independence as a parliament. We hope that this position will be adopted by the other parliamentary represented parties and we MPs in the Forty-fourth National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria will show that for us the work in the name of the prosperity of our homeland is what brought us here and should unite us at a critical moment, as this is without a doubt. I hope the mind prevails over our political bias and we do what is necessary to ensure the functioning of our coal electricity. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Colleagues, I will introduce you to the time available to each parliamentary group: the parliamentary group of GERB with 20 minutes, the parliamentary group of GERB with 20 minutes, the BSP for Bulgaria........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Colleagues, you have a say in this. Here you go, Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u38	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! There are two problems facing Bulgaria that we need to solve on our own and in the best possible way. One of them is the European Green Deal. The ambition of European leaders to be the saviors of humanity at this time of environmental catastrophe may prove to be on the path of another ambition to be the world's technological leaders, looking at this ambition in light of its reflection on Bulgaria. What would I like to point out in the sense of the subject at issue? From the point of view of electricity production. The normal functioning of the electricity system of the Republic of Bulgaria in the long term, in ensuring the national independence of the state in this segment of its economy, can be realised under the following prerequisites: the organization of a well-functioning electricity market; the preservation of the potential of the nuclear power plant Bulgaria, as a country with low gross domestic product, therefore, following the spirit of the European Union's policy, should, by default, strive to achieve the lower target, reduced by 2040 in terms of reducing CO2 emissions compared to emissions in 1990. Taking into account the parameters of such a policy, it may be suggested that the gradual reduction of the coal production capacity be proposed by 2040 to a level of 2060 megawatts. From the point of view of coal mining in the Complex of Maritsa East. The preliminary suspension of mining activities in the area of the Complex of Maritsa East in the next 10 years is technically and technologically impossible from the point of view of: the provision of stability of long-term resistance on the boards of the mines; the effective tampering of exposed coal layers along nearly 10 km of working front, which will eventually remain at the bottom of the future dam. In the event that this event is not met by the rules, the future huge watershed will be filled with diluted sulphuric acid, which will then begin to flow to its natural water host, the Maritsa River, the restoration of the natural flow of diverted rivers and their flows with adjacent waterfalls, modeling acceptable forms of the restored landscape. According to various estimates, the financial provision of these activities to date is estimated at around 900 million or even billion and 200 million. The termination of mining activities in a mining field with such parameters can only be carried out naturally and naturally only within the next 20 to 25 years. During this period, the activities cited above can be technologically implemented and the cost of coal will also include the funds related to the final completion of the extraction. We're facing a serious problem. We have, in fact, a dilemma to adhere strictly to the European Commission's proposed programme with regard to the implementation of the European Green Pact. It is necessary by deliberately limiting the carbon dioxide quotas, followed by an increase in traded prices. The damaged coal plants are rapidly decapitalized and financially bankrupt. And the second is to take into account the needs of the household and electricity industry at affordable prices over the next 10 or 20 years and develop our financially justified programme for a smooth transition to a low-carbon economy. The first choice requires stopping coal power plants before 2025. We do not have spare capacities or financial resources to build those to replace them and meet the requirements of the Green Pact. Our country will face a huge deficit of 35 to 40% of electricity shortages for both domestic and industry. We are not sure whether our neighbouring countries, for example, Serbia or Turkey, which are not bound by the European Green Pact, will have such an excess of electricity to sell us. Due to the emerging electricity deficit in the entire European market, it is very difficult to predict the price at which we will be able to buy it. The latter will also depend on how bearable the jump or the increase in the price of electricity for household and industry will be. Will Bulgarian industrial goods retain their competitive ability? This will be a prerequisite for the collapse of our national economy and the outbreak of acute social tensions. The second choice is preferable and can be justified before the European Council with the following arguments: - The replacement of 40. 45% efficient coal power plant.. the only local raw material with stocks providing their efficient operation requires huge financial resources and a significant period for both the construction of new low-carbon power plants and the renovation of mining works in accordance with environmental standards. - Bulgaria has achieved the ambitious goals of the European Union to reduce the amount of carbon dioxide by more than 55% compared to the base 1990. In 1990 it was 104 million. Tonnes, and in 2019 they are below 50 million. the tone. We agree jointly to implement the pan-European carbon dioxide reduction policy and after 2030, when all partners in the European Union will have achieved the same reduction in their emissions, i.e. by 55% compared to 1990. It is correct that all Member States of the European Union have an equal start in the decarbonisation process in the third decade of the XXI century. - During the next ten years, we will prepare the Bulgarian energy and industry for a smooth reduction of CO2 emissions equal to our partners by 2030 by setting the necessary financial resources to achieve the European goals. It is also necessary to identify sources of funding from the European target fund and the national budget. We do not need to outrun time and other countries in achieving high CO2 emission reduction targets. Bulgaria, thanks to its blessed green nature, is not an exporter, on the contrary, thanks to its green forests, numerous rivers, water basins, the Black Sea In fact, Bulgarian nature absorbs carbon dioxide emissions from neighbouring European countries. It is logical for Bulgaria not to buy, but to sell quotas. I recently came across one ranking of the 100 world companies, the largest pollutants of nature. In this ranking, I assure you, there is no presence of the Maritsa East Energy Complex, regardless of what was heard many times by some advocates of the obnoxious thesis. Because we have achieved the 2030 target. In order to reduce CO2 emissions by 55%, we should be able to use it without reducing the amounts already allocated to us under the Cohesion Funds aimed at developing education, reforming health care and catching up to the average European standard of living. In 2018, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 20% of the total energy consumed in our country was from renewable energy sources, which is far above the 16% target for 2020. We need to support investors in building new renewables by easing the conditions for their inclusion in the electricity grid, and their electricity production to be traded on the liberalised stock market. Maintaining acceptable values of the price of electricity, Bulgaria will also preserve social peace, the competitive ability of its industrial production and stable growth of gross domestic product in a close and medium-term perspective, which is a necessary condition for raising the standard of living of all Bulgarian citizens. Last but not least, we will preserve our relative energy independence. And one more thing: we will promote the initiative of Stara Zagora Municipality to be afforestated with quality wood species each year 100 acres of the bare forest areas. This is also in response to the UN's call to plant a trillion trees over the next ten years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Mr. Stoinev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I have repeatedly expressed my concern from the lack of a long-term strategy. Especially in such a area as energy, colleagues, I think it is nice to have a vision, a strategy on how this industry will develop. Of course, colleagues from GERB can say that the environment is extremely dynamic and that is why we do not need such a strategy, but ultimately we are here in Parliament to change the strategies. We already have such good, useful experience a year ago when you came and asked for a change in our strategy, and we, of course, supported you. So it is good to know, especially the energyists, those people who work in this sector, what is the view of the Bulgarian government and the Bulgarian Parliament in this area anyway. Of course, the situation is changing. When, 7 years ago, we started talking about reducing carbon emissions, then I, of course, as a minister not only of energy, but also of the economy, joined the European Club of Industry, proposing to be extremely careful at European level. Because, ladies and gentlemen, Europe, as the European Union, I would not say it is the biggest pollutant. Yes, we agree that Europe should set an example, but if we want a global agreement, then the biggest pollutants, such as the United States of America and China, must also be present. We can safely follow all European regulations, but for example, a neighbouring country in Turkey, it can spit out as much as it wants and at the same time who suffers? The Bulgarian business suffers, the Bulgarian working economy suffers, because the companies de facto do business, they continue to puff, to pollute and at the same time neither our air is cleaner, and we have lost investment and jobs. Then came the idea of the famous Green Pact. I understand colleagues from GERB, who allegedly did not vote on it, said they do not agree with it, only that Prime Minister Boyko Borisov supported this Green Pact. So, colleagues, we're already in this Green Pact and we need to think about what we're doing from now on. This Green Pact, unfortunately, is extremely restrictive to emissions, especially those so-called polluting enterprises, and therefore by 2050 we must be neutral in terms of carbon emissions. More than that. By 2030, we have to cut it by 60%. Then, colleagues, the question is: what are we doing right now? The Maritsa East Complex here has all stared at the plants, but in the beginning nowhere in the Green Pact is said for example about the closing of coal plants. That's why the Ministry's job, the government's job is to calm people down and keep them calm about their things, because there's really a lot of speculation. Here I put aside the investments that have been made over the years. Even when a person is insistent, when the famous diggers in the Complex agreed, they told me that such funding from the Fund "Kozloduy" could not happen, but I had to go directly to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in London, with all the creditors to sit down at the table and agree that these new diggers would be in the complex and the miners to take advantage of them. Moreover, it is also good for their safety. So when we have specific conditions, we have to fight and renegotiate them, however difficult it is, whatever efforts there is. Because I feel that there is a consensus here in this Chamber that you should take advantage of, Madam Minister, but you should also do your homework. And the homework, I think, is in the following: we in the coming years must ensure that the complex works, that for the miners there will be work. If necessary, for the power plants to propose and look for a way for new Seroochists, but so as to meet European requirements. You are talking about the famous gas hub that there will be many, many gas in Bulgaria. Then we need to think about specific capacities that balance our energy, because, colleagues, our big problem becomes balancing, the water becomes nook. But if this huge pressure on the Ministry and on the part of the European Union begins, precisely for those coal-working plants, then I do not know how this balancing will happen. Then you should come up with the idea of some other kind of power plants, but you should go out and start talking with some documents or with some kind of vision. Moreover, the Fair Transition Fund. To begin with, colleagues, to take advantage of this Fair Transition Fund, it is true that this regulation has not yet been voted on, that it is still working, but it is said that if all municipalities want to apply for this fund by the middle of this year, they must have their plans. Accordingly, I ask: is a municipality of Radnevo ready with any plans to apply precisely to take advantage of this fund? I mean, it takes really good coordination, because time flies. In the European Union they are extremely dynamic, and I see that they are also quite pushy. On the one hand, you defend our energy, because we know very well that we purely technologically can't do anything, but people need to be calm and know that the Bulgarian Parliament is behind them, that we will support the miners of the Complex. But you should also start to give an alternative to whether they will be, as the colleague said, with new green trees, we prefer to have green jobs, to have a new type of investors, so that people are calm, that it cannot happen not only economically, but even a social bomb. After all, I believe that the results that we all want can happen with joint efforts, but you yourself, Madam Minister, should be the one to set the tone, the one to offer the solutions, and, of course, to seek support from the Bulgarian Parliament. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u41	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Gokov had declared it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u42	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! I am a Member of Parliament from an area that will be most affected by the situation with the so-called Green Deal and the launch of the Platform. This is the Stara Zagora district, where its economy has been built around the activities in the Minno-energy complex of Maritsa East. Today, at least 75% of the business in the district is directly or indirectly linked to it. If Bulgaria has the indiscretion to deprive itself of the coal produced in Mini Maritsa East, it will forever lose its energy independence and this will be another irreparable mistake. Behind the existing fairy tales and proposals for compensation in quotes on the Green Deal, it sees the infinitely clear intention that Bulgaria is being asked to close the Maritsa East, which until recently was Bulgaria's pride and provided us, continues to provide us and can provide us with 50 more years of energy independence. Only the thought of closing down the Complex before the exhaustion of all its resources is equal to national betrayal, even greater than the closure of the third and fourth reactors of the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" which was part of the price for our accession to the European Union. Although we have put a lot of millions into making them the safest and safest in Europe, we have been forced to close them down, although others, far more dangerous, are still working today. Today, under the pretext of limiting climate change, we will sacrifice our coal plants, even though we have recently invested many millions in modern cleaners. Haven't we learned a lesson? If we close down the plants and strike a second killing blow on Bulgaria's energy and economy, wouldn't one of the current European commissioners after 15 years announce that this decision of the European Commission is an extremely wrong assessment, as Jeffrey van Orden recently determined the Commission's decision to close the third and fourth block of the nuclear power plant Then we lost, in my humble judgment, at least a dozen billion, and now how much we're preparing to lose, provided the Maritsa East Complex has invested, according to energy and economic experts $50, $60 billion. What will be the future losses for Bulgaria? Will any of this government present to the Bulgarian society an impact assessment of such a decision? Will he do an analysis of how this will affect the economy and lives of the people of Stara Zagora region? How will it affect Bulgaria's energy system and its economy? Will any of this government stand before the workers who earn their living in Complex Maritsa East and tell them what future awaits them, their children and grandchildren? But they don't believe us anymore after all these lies. They are sure that we have betrayed them for some deal for pennies, so that we can be comfortable with Europe. I declare to you from this tribune that behind the Green deal of the European Commission there is no fear of climate change and the resulting problems, but foreign economic interests, which will strike a devastating blow on the Maritsa East and will turn Bulgaria into an entirely energized country, a blow to the future and prospects of the Stara Zagora region, on the Bulgarian energy and economy. Normal countries won't let that happen. Coal plants are the only secure balancing agent in the energy system, their blocks can be shut down and released if necessary for very short time cuts. The fact is that 46% of the electricity in Bulgaria is the product of coal plants in the complex, which, on top of that, unlike other Bulgarian thermal plants burn Bulgarian coal produced in the Bulgarian mines and thus further stimulate our economy. The fact that no one has contested so far is that Complex "Maritsa East" is a guarantee for the Bulgarian energy independence. Tales of passing coal plants into the gas complex is unrealistic and unacceptable solution. It is not realistic because these are huge investments in the order of a dozen, twelve billion euros for processing combustion plants, unacceptable because this eliminates coal mining, takes the miners' bread and because in the context of the European zero carbon policy by 2050 they will be short-lived and will soon again be exposed to criticism. In this deal, if Germany, Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary and so on negotiate any deadlines for closing coal plants and they are after 2038, 2041, why in Bulgaria are we talking about time limits We should be the last. That is, not earlier than 2050, but until then to build replacement capacities, to recalibrate the economy in the area of the complex. The transition must be smooth, without turmoil, without significant losses for our society and our economy. In this mandate from 2017 to now Bulgaria has missed many opportunities not to be in this situation today, almost to a done fact. We failed to establish close cooperation with Germany, Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary for joint actions to protect our interests. We did not harness Bulgaria's entire scientific potential to find a solution in the field of cleaning of emissions at an acceptable price to reduce harmful emissions to the extent that they could frustrate the arguments of green energy traders. We do not even have a clear position on the European Commission's measures to protect coal plants and we are waiting for what they will tell us and, above all, what they will give us from Europe, although it must already be clear from practice that Europe loves to punish but does not like to give very much. In the time when we are trying to stimulate Bulgaria's economy and development in order to get closer to other European countries, to get a little bit less out of the hole in the last place, it is extremely short-sighted to close coal plants, especially those in the Maritsa East, which are the main supplier of electricity for the country. How does this help to achieve such a dream of rapprochement? It is to my pain that it is clear that solving our coal energy problems in the context of the new European Commission policy is of great importance for the overall development of our country and its energy and, hence, national security. Not to mention Stara Zagora region. I am convinced that if this government had been more serious at the beginning of this term, responsiblely initiated a broad public and social debate, including international, to find working solutions, if the government had sought consensus support from all the political forces in the National Assembly, things would have been different. Unfortunately, missed years. From now on, after these debates, I hope for consensus actions to protect energy. Otherwise, Stara Zagora and Bulgaria will not forgive us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u44	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, when we talk about the Maritsa East Complex, we need to know a few basic things that have gone through time. Colleague Gyokov said some of them. It is important to know that, in December 2018, the European Union adopted Regulation 2018/19/99 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the management of the Energy Union, on climate action, according to which each Member State must present an Integrated National Energy and Climate Plan by 2030 with a horizon up to 2050 in which it identifies its national contribution to the achievement of European targets relating to a reduction of the effects of global climate change. As you know, we have already had the opportunity to get acquainted with the Integrated Plan "Climate" which was presented by the Ministry of Energy at a joint meeting of the Committee on Energy and Environment. Quite expected from what we have seen in our presented plan were the perspectives, the challenges facing the development of the internal energy market, energy efficiency, decarbonisation and innovation, some of the main pillars of the so-called European Energy Union. What impressed the Bulgarian Energy Plan, which is foreseen in terms of coal, namely, it is planned that coal will retain a dominant share in the country's energy mix by 2030. Obviously, in the coming years Bulgaria will have to continue to rely on the plants that produce electricity from coal. Against the background of the data that the electricity produced by these base capacities, as has already been said, represents more than 40%, in the winter period over 60 to 110, it turns out that the operation of these plants is part of the country's energy security guarantee. In this regard, I believe that today's debate is extremely important. It is important because it is necessary to make maximum efforts for the normal functioning of thermal power plants under the conditions of European requirements. It is important to know that when we talk about such a transition from 2030 or later, it is time for the state to help develop the region of Stara Zagora, because this will be the region that will be most affected by what awaits us. If we want to keep one of the strong economic areas in our country, we must all work together on this. The decisions in the energy sector should be outpartisan and I believe that today we will prove this by making a responsible decision for the Bulgarian energy sector by consensus. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Tanev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Siddy.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, this debate that we are starting today is very timely because we know that Europe has talked about this green deal, this new modern wave in Europe, which is actually aimed at destroying this whole business. A hypocritical deal that, unfortunately, imposes on us from Brussels, a deal that makes so that, throughout the European Union, we make productions that are much less carbon polluting and, at the same time, a neighbouring Turkey continues to produce cheap production and expensive carbon emissions without any problem. It is a timely debate because it is now time to determine which side will be on. We see that the BSP is extremely active in protecting the TPP Maritsa East and defending our energy energy. At the same time, in the European Union, representatives in the PES do not do this. We know that even you have a Chairman of the PES. I very much hope that this debate will be brought out, we will not bring it here, in the building of the Bulgarian National Assembly, but you will bring it to Brussels, where it belongs. I hope that everything you say so far will indeed be part of the opinion of the Bulgarian representatives in the PES regarding this green deal, which I repeat, is extremely harmful. The DPS has already stated their position. They're hard-core. They're trying to turn themselves from liberals to green because it's modern. I don't see any other reason. However, this fashion, apart from modern fashion, is hypocritical, it is harmful, I say again, because in the European Union we are destroying this production, but our neighbours, Turkey, China, Russia, the United States, do not participate in this process at all and therefore produce and impose on us to produce much more expensive production against the background of theirs. Bulgaria cannot afford to participate in this hypocrisy. Because behind this European green deal are more than 30 thousand Bulgarian families who are engaged in this sector. In this debate that we are having here, we are trying to please these people, and everyone in this room is going out and saying how we will support them, but at the same time hypocritically there in Brussels, we say: yes, yes, let us work for this green pact. That is why these people will like just one thing: to say that of the Green Deal, what we at the IMRO "United Patriarchs" are doing to stop this insane European hypocrisy with our powers that we have in the European Parliament and to protect our own production accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Siddy. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov. Then Mr. Panchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u48	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I will not hide that I listened with interest, but my colleague Siddy's statement has finally confirmed my desire to speak to you briefly. I'm going to offer you a slightly different look and tell you, to draw your attention to the fact that we have a strong opinion from a party about the Green Deal. I am pleased that there are people who follow our parliamentary activities in the European Parliament and know our documents. But I also want to tell you this: all of us, without exception, for 10 years, have been turning from accomplices to hostages to what is happening and I will tell you why. It has been clear for 20 years that the European economy will be seriously decarbonized. For 15 years there has been a European emissions trading system. It started at levels of $20 a ton. During the economic collapse it reached five-six and then the Bulgarian energy sector why I say that we are hostages already, being accomplices, decided that there is a breath of air to stand on the ambrazure and repeat: "We want our plants!" We don't move from this, and that's our national interest. During this time, honourable Members, in addition to rising prices again to $20.25, neighbouring Turkey by 2024 will have nearly 64 gigawatts of renewable energy, which I think is already starting to enter a serious regional market. Minister, honourable Members, we must do everything we can to preserve the lives of mines and plants, but not by standing on the Ambrazor to repeat that the bad Brussels prevents us, as the colleague said, and this is some sort of Satanic Green deal, but by joining together and having a political consensus with all possible effort for innovative and new technologies, because there are those that can continue mining and, nevertheless, on the basis of gasification to extract electricity from coal and hydrogen, and with regard to the innovations in nuclear energy, Bulgaria must retain its competitive advantages... [[the President signals that time has run out]] ...and that's where I end up, but in an extremely innovative way. That is why we must have consensus. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u49	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. - What's the line? I can't see? Mr. Panchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u50	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! Not as a MP from Stara Zagora, but as a Bulgarian citizen will support the decision proposed by the importers on the questioning. We are all witnessing how years ago we closed some of the power of the NPP - Kozloduy - something that brought many losses to Bulgaria, without being necessary, true to the demand of the European Union, in our desire to become members of the European Union. Today we are commenting on a topic about shutting down some of the emission energy, from the energy heart of Bulgaria, from what the Stara Zagora region with the TPPs there produces for us, the Bulgarians, and for exports to neighbouring countries. Maybe it's a climate problem, but for us it's a national interest. We see what Poland has done. They want 50 billion. EUR from the European Union and the opportunity to continue to produce with coal, although there 80% of what they produce as electricity is based on coal. Bulgaria's transition to gas production can be implemented, but this is a process in which I think will be necessary for at least 20 years. Between 10 billion and 15 billion will be needed. lv. money which I do not see how we can provide them if the European Union, in our desire to close these capacities, does not support us and does not help as it is expected to be done with the other countries affected by this problem. We should want to urge and rely on the European Union to support us with at least such an amount in one production, which is also said by colleague Ermenkov, at least 50 lv. are invested, and it produces 45% of the electricity needed for Bulgaria. What seems to me that it is necessary at the moment is that we should be much more active and that our Bulgarian government will work more actively for our country's accession to the European programmes for coal regions in transition and for the development of a clear strategy for the development of a strategic sphere for Bulgaria, such as energy. Bulgaria is at a key moment to determine the prospects for the development of our energy and there is a need for responsible relations, agreement and unified policy, without dividing ourselves into left and right, to ensure the energy balance and energy security in the country in order to preserve the independence, autonomy and sovereignty of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Panchev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Shopov, come on in. You have one minute to keep in mind.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u52	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm just gonna list it so we know where we are and what we're doing right now. For 20 years, we gave up the rights we had. We didn't realize Blue Stream. We sold for no money, Neftohim "Burgas" because they made us. We didn't realize South Stream. We didn't do Belene because they made us do it. That was the order. That was the order. We didn't realize Burgas. I'm moving on! We overrun it very quickly, and it cost us dearly, the order, the order for the introduction of fins and voltaics, which are expensive current. We harrised the three ERPs. We quickly privatized power plants in the energy sector, which in fact for the most part have become obsolete and do not give us a product. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm enumerating all of this. There's at least a few more points. I see there is no time, Madam President, but I would continue to list this special capitulation list. [[shows him]] that were imposed upon us to call on you this time no, to unite this time. I think there is an atmosphere in the hall and so begins with the Bulgarian people, this time to be, let's say, like Poland. Why can Poland and we can't, colleagues? I don't blame Poland, she stands her ground. So this time, let us stand the Bulgarian national interest and be able to say the nonsense they want us to do. For that list, I'll tell you again, I'll talk about it in detail sometime.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u53	Get it over with, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u54	This list is even longer and I wonder how the Bulgarian energy has managed to have it so far? How have we endured, even with these problems, after all that has been imposed on us, what has been intrigued with us? [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u55	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. I've given you more than a minute over time. - What's the line? I can't see. Other speeches. Here you are, Mr. Nikolov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! In general, Mr. Panchev took me back. I feel that I am experiencing a déjà vu in the Bulgarian Parliament to debate, as once upon a time for the 3th and 4th block needed by Bulgaria, paid with very cheap production of electricity, which would have calculated enough funds in the Bulgarian Energy Holding, if they were working they could have worked until 2020, which would have covered absolutely all the costs and the cost of electricity might have been different. But it's already happened. We've lost them, despite the opposition of parliament, despite the mood in society. However, we made some sort of civilisational choice. We had to enter the European Union, and we got in the right way. But they were wrongfully closed. You can see that the negotiations of the European Commission at the time also say that this was not right. What are we doing right now and why this debate? Europe, perhaps properly, should not criticize it in this effort, wants to be a leader in the new green technologies with which it wants to show the world, although it is not the biggest pollutant in the world, that this is the way things have to happen. Because we have a Paris agreement, we are all concerned about climate change and we see its consequences. But are we ready for such a rapid transition? I'll ask. It is this debate here that is in this direction. Is Bulgaria ready to take part in this rapid transition that Europe is trying to impose through this green deal, through climate, energy and generally adopting legislation that will force all pollutants to pay more and more; technologies that pollute the environment to be forced to stop; and ultimately to achieve a decarbonisation and zero emission deposition in the carbon emission atmosphere by 2050? I definitely don't think we're ready. Why? With this tendency to reduce the power of pollutants that they produce in Europe through renewable technology, the trend was precisely to reduce coal power plants in Europe, what have we achieved? Let us take a Germany where we know that consumers, because they are green-thinking, are ready to pay through the price of electricity, through green tax and so on, namely the promotion of renewables and the reduction of the capacity of coal plants in Germany. What have you accomplished? True, in some regions of Germany the production of renewables has reached even 40%. Has coal production been reduced? No, I didn't! You realized you couldn't balance these renewables, and they couldn't balance themselves. So the cheapest way to balance is through coal plants. What happens in Germany? About 40% of electricity production is from coal plants, as it is in Bulgaria, as it is in Greece, as in the Czech Republic, and not to mention that Poland is about 80%. Let us think that we are the greenest thinkers in Bulgaria and decide today to stop all coal plants. We stop them tomorrow! So that we can breathe cleaner air and so that we can meet Europe's criteria and show that we are a country that is first in this regard. As Greece said, from 2023.. 2024 will stop 3.4 gigawatts, we will overtake Greece and stop them tomorrow! What are we going to get... if we are going to get cleaner air, whether we are going to get an economic boost? Let us think about whether we have the opportunity to replace these capacities with others! Let's think about what's going to happen. The first thing that will happen: in Gabrovo, Sliven, Ruse People will not stand on cold feet, they will start burning each according to their ability whether coal, whether wood, rags and other objects, just to warm their homes and warm their children. Will he get cleaner air in the cities? Absolutely not! Will the price of electricity fall, especially when we bring out an enormous power? Forty percent of Bulgaria's capacity and its energy supply come from these coal plants! Of course, there will be a huge deficit of electricity that has no one to satisfy it from the region. Let's not say that if the others in the region of Greece shut down and fulfill its intentions to close 3.4 gigawatts, Romania shut theirs down, a huge deficit will arise and the market will explode. Not only will the price of electricity rise by many times, but on this top we will not have enough to satisfy consumption. What will happen to our businesses? In any case, they will not be competitive because the price of electricity forms and is in the cost of their product, it will do so that they can no longer be competitive on the European market. I mean, we're not ready! We don't have any new technology. Not to say that the electrical system operator will not be able to withstand it at all, because this is how our infrastructure is constructed, that the Marishka pool is one of the largest distributions of electricity for Southern Bulgaria, and not only. Not to mention that other countries are gonna get hurt, too. We're not ready for that. We can't think as green as we want! Therefore, we must prepare a plan in the future, for some time, for God's sake, that it be 2050, but we must be ready, driven by the circumstances of European Union legislation, that we should have Plan B. But let us at present talk about Plan A!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u57	The weather, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u58	Time? I wanted to say a lot! I have a lot to talk about. Madam President, I would like to make an amendment by procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u59	Maybe someone can make a line for you and you can keep going with the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u60	No, no! I would like to propose to you as a change in the BSP's decision the following thing. Mr. Nenkov, can you make a line? [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u61	No, no! Go on. For the editorial amendment you can continue, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u62	Because the practice in the Bulgarian Parliament is, when there is such a solution, we, the ruling party, to propose another solution in order to accept its decision. We didn't offer one to have consensus. We agree with the philosophy of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, but we want a clarification of the texts to be clearer. So I suggest to you: In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1, where it is the rescue of the companies, to be replaced by an increase in the capital of the companies by the Bulgarian Energy Holding. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 I will read the whole point, which basically has very slight changes, but gives more clarity: "2." It obliges the Council of Ministers to take all necessary measures to prevent long-term cessation of operation and/or limitation of the production capacity of coal and thermal power plants from the group of the Bulgarian Energy Holding. A new t. is created. 3, which is part of t. 2 of what BSP colleagues have suggested: "3." Instructs the Council of Ministers to take action for accession (of the Republic of Bulgaria) to the Platform. Point 3 becomes t. 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u63	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Atalay, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, the front chairs are high and you don't see each other there. Honourable Members, we are dealing with a very serious issue, but in a very short time. I would suggest that in the near future we have a serious debate about Bulgaria's overall energy, because, listening to the representatives of GERB and BSP, I thought of a poem that once had: "Miner is my father, a miner will be me too. As soon as I grow up, you'll see! Well, you've grown up! Everyone sees you today, except you weren't miners, and I'm a graduate of the Mining and Geological Institute, and I'm a miner. My son didn't become a miner, but my respect for the miners. Perhaps it was more difficult for every representative from the Stara Zagora region today to stand here and, with an open face, to tell the miners and workers at TPP 2, that there is already a Green Pact of the European Union which is a fact, and we, as members of the European Union, must comply with everything that we have not complied with so far. Because if you were honest and it wasn't populism, we should have explained to them by now and told them that what the Ministry of Energy is doing with the capacity for 2025. With all that the Green Pact doesn't allow, these mines, these TPPs will work maximum by 2030. Why don't you go out and tell them that? Because you're not miners. You're talking to me, Mr. Nikolov, for 2050, about decarbonization and zero emissions that Germany didn't close their coal plants. And 2008, we left you a green energy plan, a phased closure of certain capacities and in their place building new ones. You closed and stopped the Belene Project 2018 you were going to have a nuclear power plant, 2019. The second block. Although the DPS is against nuclear power, you would have enough green energy. You are talking now that the production of energy from coal plants was the cheapest. Why do you want, then, at the first point of this decision, to take an urgent increase in the company's capital? If you include, Madam Minister, what you paid from BEH for payment of emissions, if you include the salary in these plants, if you include the decapitalization, which through the KEWRC you do with BGN 78, you will see that the price of coal plants is far higher than the price of gas stations. Ladies and gentlemen, the Green Pact as members of the European Union obliges us and gives us a plan for investment in it, which says: The European Union will invest a trillion euros to move towards zero emissions... There also writes an exact allocation: from the budget of the European Union......................... the banks........ how much, and also on top of that, when we entered the European Union, no one has told us that we can be the ones to prepare Plan B, not agree with clean energy, clean food, clean environment. In addition, colleagues, no one tells us: "Tomorrow shut down your coal plants. You must do everything possible to get involved in the mechanism for a fair transition, you must do everything possible to get involved in the Platform. Coal regions in transition so that we can extract the knowledge and prepare those personnel, prepare our miners and those who work in the thermal power plants, for the production of electricity from clean energy. This is purely and simply what we need to do, colleagues, nothing different. Now I am going back to the solution because, if we are talking about the Green Pact, if we start talking about all the investments, here we need to start talking about the closure of coal plants, how and how we will replace these capacities, how much money we will need for gas stations, how much money we will need for these new nuclear plants that you want to build and how much money we need to re-qualify everything that should happen in Bulgaria. We also need to talk about the production of a new type of energy, the hydrogen. Denmark, those northern countries, they also invented technology, and they're going completely into pure energy, and we were wondering, during that time, if we had a South Stream, if we had nuclear power plants. When we were talking from this tribune about hydrogen, you thought we were already somewhere in such a state that we thought and talked to you about things that seemed to never happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u65	Finish up, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u66	But today, by finishing, I will tell you: the support for this decision, which we will also give, is with clear consciousness, so that we can protect the Ministry of Energy, so that the Council of Ministers can benefit from the immunity and authority of the National Assembly, so that we do not close down our thermal power plants. That's why we're going to support you, not that you're right. Because now that you raise your capital, what are you gonna do next year?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u67	Thank you, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u68	We also have to pay for these emissions next year. Colleagues, I will consider time, but I see that we all have very little time to get acquainted with the Green Pact, and as soon as possible we can get up to speed with green energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u69	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Siddy.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u70	Thank you, Madam President. What we understand, Mr. Atalay, from your statement, is that the DPS is a firm one for the demand of our energy in the Marishka Basin. You say that you are firmly for the Green Pact that you have talked for a long time about this green energy, which I would call a green utopia, which all Bulgarian citizens paid in their warm bills back in 2013. Hypocrisy is what you say about the Green Pact and how much money would come from Europe to convert energy, because that money comes from our taxes, from the taxes of all those who work in the Marishka pool. So it's hypocrisy. We're shutting down their work, which they currently have, so we can find some green utopia to chase. It's categorical hypocrisy. Again, we are firmly opposed to any attempts by Brussels to make any green utopia and to close over 30,000 jobs in the Marishka Basin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u71	Thank you, dear Mr. Siddy. Mr. Atalay, will he have the back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u72	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Member, to try to explain to you, you will not understand, and I will therefore say this. Madam Minister, dignified and honest say: How long and in what way from the taxes of the Bulgarian society will we bring carbon energy instead of this money to invest it and build new technologies to produce energy? If it's about closing the coal mines, I told you last time. I think that you have all understood long ago that you must face all those who work day and night and tell them how and how they should be retrained by looking at the future of our children and the development of our country.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u73	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u74	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Allow me first of all to thank you all for today's debate on an extremely important topic on the issue of the country's energy security, respectively, related to our national security. As has happened before, when things are related to such important topics as energy, energy security, we have all found the strength and opportunity to unite our efforts in order to achieve the best solution for Bulgaria. As far as coal plants are concerned, the government has repeatedly stated its firm position. Of course, Bulgaria as a Member State of the European Union follows the rules, principles, priorities of the European Union in the field of energy, but when it comes to energy security, it is a priority. Our position in this direction has always been that this transition to a low-carbon economy must, first of all, be fair, be smooth, be consistent with the specifics of each country and in no way put energy security at risk for the Member States. This is our strong position and it has been stated repeatedly in both the Council of Energy Ministers and within the European Commission, the European Council and the Integrated Plan. This is a document that brings together the efforts, the work of a large part of the ministries in the country, as it concerns many sectors. So in our Integrated Plan "Climate" we have very clearly stated that without the coal power plants the Bulgarian electricity system could not function normally. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. As long as this integrated plan is in place, we have clearly stated that we will continue to rely on coal plants as main, basic power in the Bulgarian electricity system. We have justified this to the European Commission and we have made our arguments very clear. The first and most important argument is related to our energy security. The second argument relates to the fact that we have a local resource that gives us the relevant independence in terms of the use of this raw material. And the third very important topic is related to the energy security of Bulgaria and the region, as coal plants have a very special and important place in the country's electricity system. Here several times there was also mentioned Mr. Nikolov, and Mr. Stoynev, and Mr. Ermenkov, that coal plants have a very important place. They are those capacities that balance the system, and the TPP is such a power plant, which is the only one, by the way, in the country there is no other power that is connected with the three levels of tension in the country and in the event of a possible system accident, this is the plant that can guarantee the rapid and quality introduction of the system into normal operation. So these coal plants give 40% of our country's energy, these quantities reach 60% in winter. I will only remind you of the winter of 2017, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, when you remember that there was a month in which the temperatures fell sharply. These low temperatures persisted for more than 20 days and this led to collapse in the system of countries around us. Then all countries closed their borders and stopped the export of electricity. Well, then, the situation in our country was saved precisely by coal plants and by Kozloduy NPP. So we cannot lightly say: 'Yes, these capacities will be eliminated from our electricity system.' The Bulgarian government stands firmly behind this type of capacity, stands firmly behind the Bulgarian miners, behind our colleagues, so that colleagues should be calm about their jobs and the future of the complex. Only at the TPP, Maritsa East 2 is invested 1 billion 200 million in sero-cleaning devices, which is a very serious investment. We will, of course, continue to invest in these capacities, in these sero-cleaning devices, as people's lives and health are extremely important. What air we breathe is an extremely important topic. We will continue to invest in this direction, but I say again, our position fully coincides with what has been the subject of the debate here and what has been proposed as a solution. I thank you for the support for coal plants, which are the main pillar of the country's electricity system. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u75	Thank you, dear Minister. Honourable Members, we are going to vote on the draft decision... [[Noise and lines.]] Procedure? Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the House, Dear Minister! In relation to the adopted Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Regional Development and the need for a slightly greater public discussion, the period between first and second reading should be extended to 14 days.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u77	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 156 MPs: for 155, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, I'm going to put to the vote the editorial amendments point by point that Mr. Nikolov gave me, so we're starting a separate vote. First, I will read the proposal for an editorial amendment under point 1. 1: The Council of Ministers, through the Minister of Energy, shall, by 29 February 2020, adopt all necessary measures for the normal functioning of the "Maritsa TPP" East 2 "EAD," including by increasing the capital of the company by the Bulgarian Energy Holding "EAD" in order to ensure the energy security of the country as an element of its national security, regardless of the opinion of the European Commission on this issue. Please, voting mode. Vote 158 MPs: 158, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I'm reading the version by t. 2: The Council of Ministers is obliged to take all necessary measures to prevent the long-term cessation of operation and/or limitation of the production capacity of coal thermal power plants from the group of the Bulgarian Energy Holding. Please, voting mode. Vote 161 MPs: 160, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the new point 3, which reads as follows: Please, voting mode. Vote 158 MPs: 158, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I'm voting to change the numbering of t. 3 which becomes point 4 which is the following: "The Minister of Energy to periodically inform the National Assembly of the measures taken and the results achieved. Please, voting mode. Vote 157 MPs: for 157, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. I vote on the whole draft decision with the editorial amendments voted on just now. Please, voting mode. Vote 156 MPs: for 156, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we're not taking a break, and we're going straight to parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u78	New requests for the period from 24 January to 30 January 2020 from: - National Representative Anton Kutev to Denitsa Sacheva, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, on the results of the Plan for Implementation of the National Strategy for Disabled People for the period 2019 - 2020. It should be answered in the plenary session on 7 February 2020. - MPs Vassil Antonov and Milko Nedyalkov to Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, about the design and construction of the necessary for the watering of dozens of settlements in Loveska and Pleven District. The plenary sitting should be answered on 7 February 2020. Written replies to the service of the Members of the National Assembly from: - Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov of six questions from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov on a question from the MPs Vesela Lecheva and Georgi Stoilov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mariana Nikolova on a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva; - Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov on a question from the National Representative Manol Genov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska; - Minister of Culture Boel Banov on a question from the MPs Kristina Sidorova and Alexander Simov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova. We are continuing with a question for Mrs. Mariana Nikolova, Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy. She will answer a question from the National Representative Rumen Gechev concerning the collection of penalties in favour of the Bulgarian state due by the company................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Please, Mr. Gechev, ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u79	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! According to the privatisation contract for the sale of 70% of the capital of the Transport Company, concluded on 8 August 2008 between the Privatization Agency a seller, and K.G. Maritaim Shipping AD a buyer, the buyer was obliged in the 10-year period after the conclusion of the deal to meet the following two basic requirements: First, according to art. 7, p. 2 of the Treaty to maintain the average number of vessels of 2851 in 2019 to not less than 2360 people on 31 December 2018. This obligation of the buyer has a drastic default, with more than 90% of the employed being released at the end of the fifth year of the contract signing. At the end of the 10-year period and subject to the contract instead of 2360, employed in the Paramition of Bulgaria's fleet and the EAD are only 163 people. For the entire period, according to the agreed obligations, the buyer paid the Privatisation Agency a penalty of 5 million. 706 thousand. lv. Second, according to art. 4 t. 8 The buyer is obliged to maintain an annual average of this 10-year period, a total tonnage of not less than 1 million of the company's ships. Three hundred thousand. DWT, but this requirement is also in drastic default by the buyer. According to the reports provided by the Agency for Public Enterprises and Control, the available tonnage is only 896 207. The compensation granted by the Agency under this parameter of the contract amounts to 52 million. 252,000. 446,02 leva. plus accrued interest on 11 December 2019 841 thousand. lv.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u80	Please complete the statement!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u81	In conclusion, what specific measures has the Bulgarian state taken and personally you, who are authorized to monitor this process in order to ensure the payment of penalties in favour of the Bulgarian budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u82	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. You have the floor to answer, dear Mrs. Nikolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u83	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gechev, on the occasion of your question about the collection of penalties in favour of the Bulgarian State due by the company K.G. Maritaim Shipping JSC, I reply to you the following: according to art. 72 of the Privatization Contract for the sale of 70% of the capital of the Transport Company "Bulgarian Sea Fleet" JSC "Kay G Maritaim Shipping" JSC has committed for a period of 10 years after completion to ensure that the company maintains its proposed average number of vessels according to the presented social programme, which is Annex D to the Treaty. In the event of failure to comply with the obligation, the buyer shall owe the seller a penalty of 100% on the minimum wage for each agreed but unoccupied number of vessels for the corresponding reporting period. The amount of the obligation to maintain the average number of vessels by reporting periods according to Annex G to the Treaty and the corresponding implementation as a result of post-privatization controls on data submitted by the buyer and reported documents for the 10-year period from 14 August 2008 to 31 December 2018 as well as the penalties charged and paid by the buyer are as follows: 2008 '88,000. lv. 80 cm.; 2010 - 166,000. BGN 320.; 2011 - 155,000. - (Laughter) lv.; 2012 == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man 467 leva.; 2013 402 thousand. 70 leva.; 2014 s 732 thousand. £700, plus $23,000. 2 cm. interest on late; 2015 827 thousand. 320 BGN, plus 23 thousand. £442. interest on late; 2016 932 thousand. £820.; 2017 The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible Fourteen thousand. 300 leva.; and 2018 The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is $120,000. £240. By signing the Treaty, the buyer undertook, for a period of 10 years after completion, to maintain an average annual total tonnage of the company's ships, not less than one million and three hundred thousand Deadwaite. This is the burden on a ship, including the ships of the company's subsidiaries. Following a review and analysis of the documents submitted by the buyer by the Agency, the arithmetic mean of the company's ships and subsidiaries for the 10-year reporting period, calculated on the basis of the annual reports submitted by the buyer, was found to be 896 thousand. BGN 207. 97 c. For non-compliance with the obligation to maintain an annual average total tonnage of the buyer ships, K.G. Maritaim Shipping JSC, is a penalty of 52 million. 252,000. BGN 446. 2 c. calculated according to the formula provided for in the contract. The buyer and guarantor shall be notified of the amount of the penalty charged and the buyer shall be granted a period of voluntary execution of 60 days from receipt of the notification. Their voluntary payment period expired on 14 October 2019. Within the voluntary payment period, the amount due has not been paid and the Agency for Public Enterprises and Control has taken legal action to protect the state interest. The Agency, on the basis of the arbitration clause laid down in the privatisation agreement, brought before the Court of Arbitration at the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce a judgment against the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce (KG Maritaim Shipping) JSC and Advans Properties LTD for their joint condemnation to pay the due but not paid voluntary penalty. The amount of the amount brought before the Court of Arbitration is 53 million. Ninety-four thousand. BGN 290. 98 sq., comprising principal 52 mln. 252,000. BGN 446. 2 cm. And interest 841,000. Eight hundred and forty-four 96 sq. On the basis of the action, a case has been brought. There is also a time limit for replying to the application by the defendants. It should be pointed out that, before the expiry of the voluntary implementation period, An arbitration case No 134 of 2019 was initiated on the basis of the description of the Court of Arbitration at the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. The Agency has submitted a reply within the time limit to the application, in which it has explained in detail its understanding of the debt of the penalty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u84	Thank you, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u85	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleague Nikolova, it is clear that the buyer has rudely violated the privatisation contract and has in fact destroyed a whole company of nearly three thousand people has remained 160; the tonnage is also broken. And now, this buyer, who ruined the industry, has paid some fines of five million on the basis of a minimum wage. We have missed millions of leva in social security, no national product has been created and the budget for hundreds of millions of leva has been allocated, the Bulgarian shipbuilding is ruined, on this basis and the ship repair activity after it has been ruined and the industry has missed orders of small and medium-sized companies related to this business for millions. Ms. Nikolova, I want your assurance that the government of the Republic of Bulgaria will protect the national interest in which I very much hope and I am almost certain. In addition, I would recommend: first of all, that we from the left will monitor every second of the procedures and behavior of the Bulgarian institutions so that they do not cooperate, eventually, to get some people out of paying the penalties. In conclusion, hand over where you need to, including the Prime Minister: when a group of shareholders or shareholders are sued by the Bulgarian state and do not pay 53 million, if you please, not to appear with them at dinners, at banquets and give them the floor. When they pay back the Bulgarian state, then you will give them an opportunity to explain. And now, we remain to monitor every step of the state institutions to protect the Bulgarian interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u86	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. Would you like a line? No. Thank you. We move on to the questions to Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy. Question from Mr. Ivo Hristov about a license for the construction of NPP Belene. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u87	Mr. Vice-President, Mrs. Petkova, honourable Members! Madam Minister, the National Electricity Company has not yet sent the necessary report on the parameters for the NPP project "Belene" so that the Nuclear Regulatory Agency can issue a license for its construction. This was announced days ago by the Agency in their 2019 Annual Report. I would like to remind you that on 1 October 2019, as Energy Minister, you have ensured that, by the end of the year or at the latest at the beginning of next 2020, the Nuclear Regulatory Agency will license the Project for the construction of the nuclear power plant, Belene, with a view to the changes in the legislation and requirements of the European Commission. At the press conference, which I referred to above, it became clear that, apart from a formal request for the necessary documents from the National Electricity Company, there was no actual action presented to renew the licensing procedure. In your public appearances, you have repeatedly mentioned an increased investor interest in the nuclear power plant. In negotiations with potential investors, the stage for granting a license for the project is extremely important because it reduces the risk and increases the price of the future power plant. Without a license, we fall into the opposite hypothesis at a lower price and at a higher risk. Therefore, Dear Minister, I demand an answer: why has the National Electricity Company not taken procedural action to authorise the construction of the NPP Project "Belene" - what are the reasons to delay and who is responsible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u88	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Hristov, the question you are asking is up to date in view that the procedure for selecting a strategic investor for the NPP project is underway at present. As you mentioned, as I have repeatedly mentioned, the interest in the realization of this project by some of the world leaders in the field of nuclear energy is indeed great. The theme related to the completion of the licensing procedure of the Project is extremely important. It's important to us, and it's important to investors. For us it is important because it will give us a much greater burden and a much greater opportunity in the course of the negotiations to defend a greater percentage of participation in this project, on the other hand, will enable investors to be sure and have clarity about what will be realised. So this process is really irreversible and it is very important that it happens. Now I will introduce you to the entire chronology of the events so far: on 6 December 2018 the Nuclear Regulatory Agency informed the National Electricity Company and the Ministry of Energy that in view of the adopted Decision No 447 of 29 June 2018 of the Council of Ministers, which repealed Decision No 250 of 29 March 2012, it should be assumed that the legal and factual obstacles to the implementation of the project have been dropped and that the process of its licensing under the Law on the Safe Use of Nuclear Energy can continue from the approval phase of the technical design of the facility. The letter states that a large volume of action has been carried out in relation to this phase. The project for the construction of the nuclear power plant was prepared and provided by the Nuclear Regulatory Agency together with an interim safety analysis report in 2008 and for several years the necessary analyses, assessments and expertise have been carried out. The letter also states that, in the case of the practical renewal of the actions concerning the implementation of the Project in the licensing process, the actions carried out so far should be taken into account and a new assessment of the project in terms of current requirements should be carried out within the same procedure. Such an update could only be made by the designer who prepared the technical design. At present, the National Electricity Company and the Russian Atomstroyexport, and respectively the National Electricity Company and the subcontractors of the Atomstroyexport, involved in the development of the technical project, have no contractual relations in force. In this regard, it is necessary for the National Electricity Company to conduct negotiations, including a procedure under the Public Procurement Act to entrust these activities. In connection with the above letter of the Nuclear Regulatory Agency of the National Electricity Company, on 5 April 2019 a request for an opinion was lodged concerning the continuation of the activities of the approval of the technical project of the NPP "Belene" for the purpose of issuing an order under art. 40 of the Ordinance on the procedure for issuing licences and authorisations for the safe use of nuclear energy. By Protocol No 22 of 13 September 2019, the Board of Directors of the National Electricity Company amended the company's investment programme and commissioned the Executive Director to confirm the update in order to secure funds for the award of the procedure under the Public Procurement Act. The procedure is subject: "Preparation of an assessment of compliance of the documentation developed for the construction of the NPP project "Belene" with the current safety regulations and technical requirements and the preparation of conceptual design solutions. By my order of 23 October 2019, I ordered the Executive Director of the National Electricity Company to be informed of the results of the public procurement. By order of 5 November 2019 of the Executive Director of the National Electricity Company, a commission was appointed to prepare the documentation for the conduct of a negotiated procedure without prior invitation to participate under the Public Procurement Act with the above-mentioned subject matter. The documentation has been submitted to the Board of Directors of the National Electricity Company for acceptance and approval of this documentation and immediately thereafter its approval by the Board of Directors of the Bulgarian Energy Holding. After the initiation of this procedure, a contract will be concluded accordingly. The licensing procedure will be continued within the framework of this contract. Expectations are that the contract will be signed by the end of February at the latest and the actual process of licensing work will begin. This document, this licensing of the project is necessary during the launch of negotiations with potential strategic investors and then we will need this license. We expect this to happen after binding offers are submitted, which will happen in the second half of this year. So until then, we hope that this licence will indeed be a fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. I gave you a little more time because of the importance of the question and the answer. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u91	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Petkova, thank you for your answer. Two elements are important. Firstly, why is the previous licence allowed to expire and the procedure for re-allocation has not been prepared at the same time, given that we are at such a very important neural moment? Second, when exactly will the period in which we will have already licensed at the site of Belene? Thirdly, as you yourself said in your reply, licensing plays directly with regard to the key parameters for binding offers, and is there, by the way, by whom, by whom, in relation to the construction of the future power plant? Fourth, on the occasion of the discussion on the previous item on the agenda of the National Assembly, everyone knows that the construction of the NPP is extremely important because if the worst assumptions of the so-called Green Pact are confirmed, the NPP "Belene" can appear the replacement power to replace to one extent or another the exit of the part or entirely of the coal plants. God forbid such a thing should happen! So, first of all, when will be the exact period within which licensing will be received, and secondly, why is there any delay at all, because this is a very important element of the negotiations with potential investors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u92	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Hristov! First of all, allow me only to make it clear in terms of licensing. This is a process that continues.. the claim did not exist to lose its effect. It's a process that needs to be completed right now. As I read in the letter of the Nuclear Regulatory Agency (AYR) to the Ministry and to the National Electricity Company, AYR informed us that as early as 2008 the whole set of documents was provided and a huge part of the work on the project licensing process was carried out. But this job has stopped with the decision to stop the project because it's practically meaningless. So what we are going to do now is to complete this process to make a comprehensive analysis of the legal framework that has changed since then to see the compatibility of the project with it. That's what the Nuclear Regulatory Agency is going to do, and it's not about the expiration of a license at all. With regard to the licensing of the NPP site, the site is licensed, so there is no problem, there is no problem with the expiry of the licence on the site. You know, there is built up all the necessary infrastructure for the realization of the project. It's where things are supposed to be. As regards whether there are binding offers supposed in accordance with the procedure until the end of today is the deadline for submitting confirmations that those companies that we have included in the short list will submit binding offers. Within today we will wait to finally see which of these five companies will confirm that they will submit binding offers. The interest in the project is great and the fact that such companies participate is a guarantee and hope that it will be realized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u94	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petkova, for participating in today's parliamentary control. Due to an urgent commitment Mr. Mladen Marinov, the Minister of Interior has no opportunity to participate in today's parliamentary control, which the MPs Vassil Antonov and Hassan Ademov have been notified of. We continue with the answers of the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev, moving on to a procedure for one answer to two questions. The first one is from the MPs Anna Slavova and Evdokia Asenova on the national external assessment for the fourth class in Bulgarian language and literature in May. The second question is from the National Representative Irena Anastasova about changes in the way national external assessment is conducted in IV grade. We are about to give two minutes in the order of entry. You have the floor to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u95	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, at the end of May the national external evaluation will be held at the end of the IV class in Bulgarian language and literature. Both the rules and the mechanism for its implementation have already been established. This year, the evaluation regulation is very close to the way the exams take place in the 7th and 19th grade. The Ministry's instructions provide for audio recording of dictation to replace the teacher and students to carry from a form with the questions answers on a separate sheet. These innovations caused a wave of discontent among both the primary teachers and the parents of the fourth graders. In this regard, they are also concerned that, firstly, there is no high quality audio equipment in each school and students will not have enough time to exercise on the new format of national external evaluation. My question to you is as follows: what are the objectives of the Ministry of Education and Science in introducing this new model of national external evaluation and why is it introduced on the eve of implementation?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u96	Thank you, dear Mrs. Asenova. Mrs. Anastasova has the floor to develop her question within two minutes as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u97	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! This time I am absolutely sure that I will fit in both minutes because Mrs. Asenova and Mrs. Slavova make it easier for me to present the reasons why we ask these questions. In fact, they are caused by our conversations in many schools in the country with senior teachers mostly, as well as some of the parents. I would only add that I am asking you in more detail about the changes before us to tell us exactly what they are. I join my fellow Members' questions: what are the reasons for these changes, and how will the Ministry respond to these concerns to primary teachers and parents? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. You have the floor for the answer three plus three, total of six minutes, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u99	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies Anastasova, Slavova, Asenova! The standard for assessing the results of the students' training lays down the general provisions applying to all national external assessments which the Pre-school and School Education Act provides for at the end of the IV, VII and X grade, describing, together with the objectives and curricula, the mandatory components in the examinations, and the relevant committees, and the officials involved in the examinations. In this sense, the regulation for conducting the national external assessment for fourth graders is close to the regulation for carrying out the national external assessment for seventh graders. This aims at objectivity, uniform rules and uniform conditions for all students in carrying out national external assessments. All of this is written in Decree No 11 after publication for a one-month discussion and in force before the beginning of the school year. In this sense it cannot be claimed that it is introduced on the eve of the national external evaluation in IV grade. However, I note that it has not been focused on the audio recording of the purely formal, this is not part of the established before the beginning of the school year format, it has been communicated at the so-called annual meetings before the beginning of the school year, but we assume that in one such approach of communication it is normal for one part of the teachers not to have reached the information about this emphasis or about this change. One aspect of equality is the creation of conditions for all students to show their skills under equal conditions and to be assessed objectively. For this purpose and dictation, as an element of the exam in Bulgarian language and literature of the national external evaluation in IV class, will be provided to the schools of audio file. This is in the spirit of all international standards for conducting exams. In this way, apart from the possibility of avoiding speech problems, inaccurate communication and inappropriate voice strength in individual teachers, the conditions are created for dictation to be read in fulfillment of the relevant methodical requirements for reading and dictation and at a rate consistent with the opportunities of students in the 4th grade. The notation of the students' responses on the reply form is related to the way in which the answers to the questions by choice will be evaluated electronically, thereby optimizing the process and reducing the administrative burden of schools where, until this year, a technical person has submitted hand-marked answers by the students. Moreover, the evaluation of open response tasks will be carried out remotely in an electronic environment by teachers from across the country. As regards the concern that schools may not have the necessary technique and fail to handle the release of the audio file, the variety of possibilities to play sound file through different technical devices must be taken into account and consider that the system has been receiving, multiplying and placing files in the halls for five years now during the post-VІ grade exams. We have also provided for situations where, due to unforeseen circumstances, dictation would have to be read by a teacher, with such persons being designated for the purpose of any regional education management. In support of the work of the primary teachers in the IV class are prepared audio files with dictation, as well as exemplary forms for marking the answers, so that students can exercise and the exam itself feel calm and confident. These materials will be in schools, or at the beginning of the second semester, and I am convinced that the time to exams is sufficient to adapt to the requirements. At the beginning of the second period is provided training of nearly 1500 primary teachers to assess the open questions of the two examinations of the national external assessment. The national external assessment after the IV grade has no elimination character for any student and should not cause concerns. Dictation will be consistent with the level of students, there will be a clear diction, no punctuation signs that are not taught by students will be required. It should not also cause concerns in teachers, as some possibly worse results at any school will in no way harm the school...................... all schools and all teachers need objective results to allow them to make better diagnostics of knowledge, of difficulties, of students' results. Long-term what we need to evaluate school level is the so-called value added assessment or the contribution to the development of each school. Even if there are lower scores in the 1st grade school, this will not negatively affect their assessment, even on the contrary, this assessment will be counter-signed because we will not have an assessment of the added value in the 1st grade, we will have in the Vth grade. There, the results of the external evaluation in IV class will be input to make such an assessment something that is laid down in the Preschool and School Education Act, and we need to stimulate schools to work better. We need an objective external assessment comparable to results comparable to the conditions under which it is conducted. This external assessment in the IV class should not disturb parents and students. Each system has usually after three or four years external evaluation, as well as internal evaluation, has current assessments. Evaluation is part of the education process. What we're reading is that we have a communication gap. 23,000 primary teachers we have in the system. We don't have a direct communication channel with any of them. From the meetings we've made, I can tell you that we've pretty much distracted their concerns. Unfortunately, we can't do it with all the teachers. We're having a bigger meeting next week, February 7th with more teachers. I hope that their concerns, too, at least where I had the opportunity to talk to teachers, have had this conversation and I think the concerns are not so great. External evaluation will be done from here on.. what we say is that it should be oriented towards measuring skills means that it will be less predictable from the point of view of things that will be measured in it. So it's going to require less learning, and in that sense, even if someone hasn't exercised the dictation of an audio file, it's a skill that sooner or later each of us is building. Even if the teachers start doing exercises now, there are a few months until external evaluation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u100	Thank you, dear Minister. The word for the doppelganger has Mrs. Anna Slavova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u101	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister! I, frankly, am, to put it mildly, surprised, will allow myself to say, from your technocratic response. We are talking about standards, committees, officials, reducing the administrative burden, given that we are talking about some 10 years old children. In these changed rules, only to make one line: with the primary teachers nothing has been said but the words.. Changes will be there at the beginning of the year................................. when you collected them.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... However, what changes you are now saying in January. The fact that they have time to exercise the audio recorder. Excuse me, you are now saying that you are producing the sample files and will release them. This is the month of February! The national external assessment shall be in May. This means that teachers abandon all the other material and begin to exercise the audiodictic, which, believe me, for some 10 years of age children is something very different from the dictatorship of the teacher with which they have been accustomed for four years. Transferring answers to another sheet. From your answer I understand that it is only to reduce the administrative burden and the way you check. But does anyone think about these kids who have to do it? You're saying there won't be a problem with technology. It's not about whether or not there's gonna be a technique that can turn on the audio recorder. It's about whether this technique will be... The explanation that we do audio-discipline as innovation is objectivity, uniform rules and uniformity. Who will guarantee the uniformity of the premises where the audio-discretion and the quality of the devices themselves will recreate it? Isn't it easier to trust because it turns out that we don't trust our primary teachers and that's why we give a technique the ability to dictate, isn't it easier to let teachers dictate and insert Quaestors by so much not believing them? And as a conclusion from all of this: you said that it was not mandatory, that it had no ligator character. Explain to me, I haven't heard from your answer the purpose of this national external evaluation, where are the analyses from the last 13 years since it was introduced? Where are the subsequent changes, if you will in a training program, if you will in quality of education? Because the purpose of all this national external evaluation, as stated in the Law, is to develop policies and measures to improve the quality of training. So far, there has been no public analysis of past national external assessments. What conclusions do the results lead to? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u102	Thank you, dear Mrs. Slavova. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u103	I hope to be able to address all the issues that you have put further, at the risk of repeating myself from the exhibition just now. Dictation is a reproduction of skills. We cannot prepare children when we measure skills with precise knowledge. The accumulation of knowledge, in this case at an early stage, should lead to the formation of skills to reproduce text from dictation. We can't want every single thing to have been taught exactly the same way we feel about them if we want to move on to measuring skills. I am convinced that when we make some of the answers to be aimed at measuring skills in the national external evaluation after VII and X class, we will have the same criticism: why aren't the children prepared, why can't they learn this thing? After all, this is the goal of not learning everything the way it should be in the classroom. Are we thinking about the kids? The way you asked me the question, I almost don't understand that education shouldn't have an assessment, or there shouldn't be an effort. Yes, education and exams require effort on the part of children. We can't say that these efforts are in some kind of unflattering size. The premises are much more identical than the diction, the rate at which the different teachers would possibly dictate. The record decryption will be done by all rules, and it will be read completely once, then into thought parts, by repeating, slowly, so that there is no concern about punctuation. Children cannot be required to post punctuation marks when they have not been taught. On the record will be marked punctuation signs to be placed, the record will be by rules with one reading, by dividing complex sentences into meaning parts, by repetitions. I wouldn't allow myself to speak on behalf of all the teachers in charge. You do it and you think that all primary teachers are against or have concerns. The opinions are different. Even the other day Mrs. Naydenova, who was involved in a conversation with colleagues from the Ministry, I think she saw to a large extent the good intentions, or at least those were her words: I saw the good wishes of the Ministry and thank you again. There's no reason we shouldn't stop the petition.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u104	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u105	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! I have listened to your answer, Mr. Minister, and I would like to put the question and comment in a slightly different way. I am convinced of the good intentions of the Ministry and I ask myself, why do many of the teachers and not few of the parents doubt the motives of the Ministry for introducing these changes? And the answer is not different for different spheres, unfortunately, because teachers, as part of our society, do not trust the institutions at all, do not trust the Ministry. Why don't they believe? Because the purpose of national external evaluation is to identify the reasons for negative or positive results and to take appropriate measures. The colleague who spoke before me is right that for years this does not happen, or, at the very least, it is not public, or, at the very least, it does not say: because of these and such problems, we make such and such changes. The other day I was listening to Mrs. Mihailova on I don't know which of the televisions, she even said that I quote: The national external evaluation is important not so much at the level of the Ministry's policies, it gives an opportunity for analysis at school level, especially to take into account the individual progress of the students themselves. "Yes, it also gives such an opportunity, but the most important goal of the national external assessments is precisely to give the Ministry a guide for his future policies. For years, we have witnessed that these particular curricula, especially this heavy learning content and this unimaginable way of presenting the study material, led to the fact that, as I like to say, we refuse children from school at the beginning. I'm with two hands to change the national external assessment. These changes are necessary. Either the Ministry of Education will make appropriate analysis and conclusions and will take subsequent competent measures, or otherwise the national external assessment is really unnecessary. I can't tell if you leave this option, whether the children will handle the audio files and carry the answers. That's why you need to ask and listen to fellow teachers and perhaps give the children enough time to get used to it. However, I would welcome the introduction of external Quaestors in the national external assessment in the fourth grade because they are known to be unholy and good pedagogical practices in which children find unregulated assistance that distorts... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm trying to finish, which is distorting the evaluation results. There is no question that the results and quality of the training should be measured at input and output. I am extremely pleased to hear this, and it is high time we did so so that both students' progress and teachers' efforts can be taken into account, since the conditions, as we know, under which teachers work, are very different in different parts of the country and in different schools. And I think that you should even think ahead about these results being bound as one of the elements of school funding. Finally, the time limits me, I hope that the pedagogical and parental community will be convinced by you in the sense of carrying out the national external evaluation, because they clearly do not see one so far. If they do, I guess they'll be the Ministry's partners in carrying out this task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u106	Thank you, dear Mrs. Anastasova. A little more time, but it's still for our kids. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for the back if you wish.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u107	Thank you. In fact, I agree with everything Mrs. Anastasova said, perhaps with one exception that, above all, external evaluation should be used at national level: both national and school level. At school level to a much greater extent can be the usability to analyze the educational difficulties of each child, to diagnose at each stage. I agree with your opinion that the national external assessment is currently not effective enough. On the one hand, the organizational efforts and resources that are being cast, and financial resources, are not small, on the other hand, we do not have enough usability, so since last year we have an information system where every teacher can see the results of their students, to analyze on which issue they have gaps in which competences they have deficits. Apart from that, thank you for supporting the introduction of such an element, including the financial formula based on an assessment of the school's contribution. Here I am obliged to admit that we are having difficulties, as we have started to develop such a model since 2017, such an equation in which to insert all factors, contextual characteristics of the environment, but we need external evaluation after IV grade, which is reliable, which is under comparable conditions, which has a normal distribution here I use the term of reference. You know how high the rate of over 60% of the results are excellent from external evaluation after IV grade, and there is nothing to worry about. Again, if there are lower results, this will allow us to make such an assessment of added value. In other words, the effectiveness that we use will increase the effectiveness of national external evaluation. In the same way, we will be able, once we have external evaluation, after the X class to make such an assessment for the first high school stage, but it is very important to make, to encourage teachers to use more external evaluation for the purposes of diagnostics at school level, at student level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u108	Thank you, dear Minister. We are moving on to the next issue by the National Representative Tanya Petrova on measures to increase the number of students in professions for which a future shortage is expected. Here you are, Mrs. Petrova, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u109	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Mr. Ministers! The world is undoubtedly no longer in a state of predictable and linear development. The changes are wide-ranging and very dynamic. The goals and role of education are being redefined. The concepts of knowledge and the mechanisms for its dissemination are changing. Significant skills change, models change to provide educational services. The role of universities to expand knowledge through research and to transform it into useful innovations is changed. To a large extent, dealing with all this depends on the existence of flexible, effective, balanced measures to activate young people for training in professions for which future shortages are expected. And in this regard, dear Minister, what is the policy of the Ministry of Education and Science with regard, firstly, to support students in higher schools who prepare staff needed in the labour market in professions for which future shortages are expected and/or are important for the country directions? Secondly, what is the policy of the Ministry regarding the fees for training of newly accepted students from the Bulgarian diaspora in Albania, Kosovo, Moldova, Northern Macedonia, Ukraine and Serbia?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u110	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petrova. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u111	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Petrova, until 2016 the Law on Higher Education regulated an absolutely liberalized reception, including in state universities, and the state financed demand from the cold ones. The changes that were made in 2016 gave the Council of Ministers and the Ministry the right to make a policy for restructuring the reception and its reduction. In four years it was reduced from 58 to 43 thousand, the largest reduction for state universities was in the social, business and legal sciences - nearly 60%, where the greatest growth and irrational demand for higher education. We have drawn up a list of priority professional directions as an attempt to link the demand for education to the needs of the labour market. These are generally the professional directions in which we have a rift between future demand for the labour market and today's demand for the education market. The fact is that there is not necessarily a link between these two markets. They are two different markets with different logic. We must bind them, but not just to those with the removal of this list. What we have done is that these professional directions receive additional funding and have a higher coefficient under equal conditions under 328th Decree, on the basis of which we differentiate funding between higher schools on the basis of a complex assessment of quality and realization. Secondly, they have a higher reception under equal conditions, determined in accordance with Decree No. 64 of the Council of Ministers, which we changed last week, and an even greater differentiation will be made. Third, on the line of scholarships. The students' scholarships were voted second additional scholarships of students in the priority professional directions in order to be encouraged to participate in these professional directions. Last week, the Council of Ministers adopted amendments to four regulations, three of which are cited as making general changes that strengthen commitment in this direction. First, that the coefficients of 328-mo PMS are increased, more precisely the coefficients are stretched, even greater differentiation is made between professional directions, between higher schools, depending on the complex assessment of quality and realization. Secondly, third additional scholarships in Order No 90 are voted, which will be for candidate students of the 10 percent with the highest external evaluation results in Bulgarian language and literature, graduates of high school, and of the 50 percent with higher results than external evaluation in mathematics, physics and chemistry, those who have chosen, as the majority of the professional directions in which we have the greatest expected shortage are related to a deeper study of mathematics and natural sciences. This, by the way, is another aspect of the question of how we encourage the study of mathematics and natural sciences, which there is no doubt that there is a connection with the question raised. Thirdly, further changes to Decree No 64 will further differentiate the reception between professional directions and allow us to make a more active policy. Unfortunately, priorities in professional fields, despite all these incentives, in a small part we have been able to increase reception in them, encourage more students. However, given that we have a reduction in candidate students, a demographic reduction in candidate students, on the one hand. On the other hand, our limit is that the next decade, in which we can say that we can make reasonable predictions with reasonable confidence, we will have a widespread shortage in all professions, in all sectors. We can't even for those where the irrational demand for higher education has exploded, say we'll have an excess. In other words, we need to be very careful to optimize the intake further. As regards the second question, changes to Order 103 were adopted, which are aimed at regulating the exemption from charges. You know that the last few years we have increased the admission of students from the historical Bulgarian diasporas from 400 to 2000 units. Not everyone fills up. We've got a fill between 1,000 and 1100 in recent years. Parallel to this, nearly three steps were taken, nearly three times an increase in scholarships for students from these historical diasporas. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In the line, maybe I'll continue with the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u112	Thank you, since it's been a long time. You have the floor for a line. Here you go, Mrs. Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u113	Thank you. I would like to thank Minister Valchev for what he has developed as a policy of the Ministry regarding my first question. This first question is dictated, firstly, for the reason that as a mathematician I suffer greatly for having a very large shortage of staff who have an education in mathematics, physics and other natural sciences. The care, the measures that everyone makes in terms of overcoming this deficiency and especially the Ministry of Education and Science together with the Institute of Mathematics and Informatics at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, together with the Union of Mathematicians in Bulgaria, I believe that they will give real results because Bulgaria is known for its achievements in mathematics and is not at all well what we see as a reality at the moment under this academic discipline. Secondly, the answer to this question has very common points, and with the fact that the Higher Education Act is currently between first and second readings. The changes in this law adequately show the care of the government and the Ministry in relation to universities, in terms of the specialties and professions with which we rely that we will have staff who are currently understaffed in the labour market, but in the future this shortage will be overcome. In general, the factors for the success of educational changes are precisely adequacy and speed. So for everything you do, you have our support and our cooperation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u114	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petrova. If you'd like the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u115	Thank you. What reminded me in your words about the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Higher Education that another additional measure we propose to be approved to those I have already listed. For professional directions with the largest expected future shortage of specialists we suggest that no fees for training or fees should be paid by the state. This will most likely be eight professional directions in which we are at the moment most stimulating the teaching of mathematics, physical sciences, chemical sciences, pedagogy of the teaching of machine building. I can't list them all for you right now. Regarding your second question. The amendments to Decree No 103 provide for the exemption from fees in the Bulgarian public schools for students of Bulgarian origin from Albania, Kosovo, the Republic of Moldova, the Republic of Northern Macedonia, Ukraine, Serbia. These are not only historical diasporas, but also countries that have a lower or comparable level to our income. Apart from that, we made changes to the Regulation for admission of students in the Bulgarian universities, which allow to apply with the assessment from the state mature exam from the respective language of another educational system. For example, if a child has studied in Germany and his exam is in German, plus a certificate in Bulgarian under the European language framework, to replace the exam in Bulgarian. The two together show language and communication competence, which will facilitate the entrance into the Bulgarian educational system, especially to students from the new diasporas. We have planned information campaigns in all countries, I would even say in regions. With the network of Sunday schools, which you know are nearly 300, we plan an information campaign in the new Bulgarian diasporas. We plan and have started the development of an electronic application system, which will facilitate the application in the Bulgarian universities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u116	Thank you, dear Minister. We are moving on to the last question today from the National Representative Irena Anastasova on the control of the activities of the centers for special educational support. You have the floor, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u117	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! With the entry into force of the Pre-school and School Education Act in 2016, former support schools were converted into special education support centres. These centers train children with multiple disabilities and low-functioning children from the autistic spectrum. More than two years have passed since this transformation and one year since the promulgation Rules on the structure and activities of the special educational support centres. The ministry consistently increases the standard of support for a student in these centres, and that is good because the material base in many of them is far from the required standards. However, that is not what my question is today. My question is about the daily activity in these centres and, above all, about the controls being carried out. As you know, Mr. Minister, this is not the first time I have asked you about problems related to working in special educational support centres, both with problems in specific centres and with common problems typical of many of them. I have a similar question to ask Mrs. Sacheva because such problems are also observed in the family-type accommodation centres of children and young people. The problems I'm asking you about are mostly in the centers for special education support with dorms. During my meetings in the country with teachers and educators, with citizens from settlements where there are such centers, they express serious concerns that the control in them is greatly reduced. Older children are used as workers for minimum wage in settlements, and quite often with the knowledge of the management of these centers. There is no effective control of alcohol use, quite often there are serious acts of aggression among the children placed in them. Some of their guides prefer to hide problems rather than put them to solve. My question is: do you have any information about similar problems in the activities of the quoted centres? Do all children meet the criteria to be trained at a special educational support centre, and what is the control in this sense? What measures are being taken, and what control over their overall activity is being carried out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u118	Thank you, dear Mrs. Anastasova. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u119	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Anastasova, I am hesitant to start with information about the centers for special educational support or to answer directly. The Ministry of Education and Science has not received any signals containing your concerns. What you said was serious and disturbing. In case of specific signals, I make a commitment to initiate an inspection immediately. This year, I will assign regional education departments to bet to a much greater extent on their plans for control activities control over special educational support centres. You know, the Ministry of Education has over 400 units of service, I can't say that we can carry out total, universal control. It is quite possible that we have cases that have not been controlled. I make a commitment that we will have such control. Currently there are 42 centers for special educational support in the country. Eight of them are municipal, and all children and students who are trained and assisted by them are enrolled in a relevant kindergarten or non-specialized school. 24 of these centers have dorms, 553 children are accommodated. Their training in the centers is coordinated with the personal development support teams. The total number of specialists in the centers is 765. Of these 51 are psychologists, three pedagogical advisors, 51 logos, 436 teachers for children and students with mental disabilities, 80 educators, two hearing and speech rehabilitators, 86 other pedagogical specialists and 65 principals and vice-directors. The regional managements of education as regional administrations of the Minister of Education shall exercise control. Control of municipal centers also implement local self-government bodies. The control activities of regional governments shall be carried out through thematic and ongoing inspections. As you mentioned, we have increased the standard. Last year, under the National Program, we are implementing a new module aimed at the centers named "Protecting a modern specialized environment" for which we allocated 1 million. Six hundred thousand. lv. to finance projects to modernise the environment. What I had to finish with, I actually started with him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u120	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u121	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Mr. Minister, I've heard your answer. There are also some issues that, in my opinion, require special treatment and control from the Ministry, namely: is it possible for the regional team to support personal development to be controlled for compliance with the assessments it gives, with the actual state of health of the student placed in such a centre? In many places the students who are accommodated are more deficient in the family and social environment than in their health. For the events I am talking about, they are mostly from such students, and for them the better is a visit to an ordinary general education school than to such a center. We know that delegated budgets, however, do not work in this direction. Rather, the centers have an interest in more children, albeit by criteria that do not fit their profile of activity. On my question to you more than a year ago you gave me an assessment of the system of secondary schools in Bulgaria, carried out on a European project by the Bulgarian Association for People with Intellectual Difficulties. There are still children in many of the auxiliary schools who only visit them according to social indications, which must definitely be stopped, according to the first conclusion made by the Ministry of Education and Science based on this assessment. I think that things have not changed particularly in the already existing centres. Is it not better to accommodate children in such cases, not in such centres, but in family-type accommodation centres for children and young people under the supervision of another ministry? How do you control whether center directors appoint as many teachers and relevant specialists as necessary for children with special educational needs? Are those assigned to them qualified to deal with obvious acts of aggression, disregard for rules, and norm, with openly hostile behavior of some students, both to their classmates and teachers? And, thirdly, some of the colleagues in these centers, especially those with dormitories, are working under extremely difficult conditions. Some of them do not comply with labour legislation, especially in the case of night shifts and any other, mainly technical activities. It is not controlled to carry children, to participate in extracurricular activities, it is difficult to control children during their free time, which is a problem, both in the centers themselves and for the people in the settlements. I think all this requires extraordinary control by the Ministry and regional governments. Thank you for saying that you would ask for more checks from the regional departments in the education of the activities of these centres, because these practices in places, I am not saying that everywhere they are, make good ideas for inclusive education meaningless. And I think that the Ministry of Education and Science is obliged to analyse the activities of these centres and to take the necessary action, as we still expect the Ministry of Education and Science report, according to art. 251 of the Law, for the implementation of the principles and policies in the law, which you had to submit to the National Assembly by 31 March 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u122	Thank you, dear Mrs. Anastasova. You don't want a double, Mr. Secretary. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control, Mr. Valchev. We are moving on to the questions to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev. The first question is from the MP Georgi Mihailov on refusing NHIF to pay for the treatment of a patient with congenital exchange disease. Here you are, Professor Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, you remember probably during the serious debates during the adoption of the Draft Law on the NHIF budget that I shared with you the great concern of the so-called § 15 which was adopted after very serious discussions and pause in the activities of the National Assembly that the creation of a border of 18 years under any diseases creates a very serious problem in the Bulgarian families and in the perception of the nation for the role of the state in carrying out strategic tasks in the field of healthcare. Over the past month, we have witnessed in the media, in the public space of a case, I have also carefully read the explanations of NHIF, of Dr. Dechev, of a Bulgarian citizen who has reached 18 years of age and at this moment he is suspended from paying specialized food, which he needs in the treatment, while maintaining his normal vital functions in a metabolic disease. I do not want to go into detail, as this is not the important issue. For me, however, the matter stands, and it is in no way resolved. I have been a member of the Committee on Rare Diseases for many years, and I have shared with you that 75% of patients with rare diseases are in childhood, that, unfortunately, not much of them reach adulthood because of the many problems in the treatment of children's diseases at all, but also with regard to our country's health policy and the treatment of rare diseases. My question to you is: not only for the case at hand, but at all this general issue, which was governed by the closed Fund for the Treatment of Children, and you continued it in a way that was not in my opinion appropriate, how do you see this transition for over 18 years not only for a specific type of illness, but for patients at all, so that the Bulgarian families can be reassured that this continuity in the treatment that we are talking about in medicine, and it is very important, will be carried out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u124	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u125	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mihailov, it is not clear from the question presented by you which particular congenital exchange disease is concerned and what therapy is needed. If it is assumed that it is a matter of refusing to pay diet food for special medical purposes, the possibility of paying by the National Health Insurance Fund of Dietary Food for special medical purposes exists under the Order of the Health Act and respectively Ordinance No 2 of 2019 for medical and other services under art. 82, para. 1a and 3 of the Health Act and the terms and conditions for their approval, use and payment under which the right to pay for dietary food treatment for special medical purposes outside the scope of compulsory health insurance has persons up to the age of 18. There are opportunities for payment from the National Health Insurance Fund of Dietary Foods for special medical purposes. It shall also be carried out on the basis of art. 45, para. 1, t. 12 of the Health Insurance Act, under which the National Health Insurance Fund pays for home treatment in the territory of the country medicinal products, medical devices and diet foods for special medical purposes. Any health-insured person may benefit from these rights if the disease whose home treatment requires dietary foods for special medical purposes is included in the list of diseases under art. 45, para. 4 of the Health Insurance Act, for which home treatment on the territory of the country NHIF pays in full or in part the medicinal products, medical devices and dietary foods for special medical purposes. By Decision No RD NS-04-18 of 11 March 2019 of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund, promulgated in the Official Journal of the European Union, No. 36 from 2019, on the List under art. 45, para. 4 of the Health Insurance Act includes additional diseases, which allows NHIF to pay for home treatment for new diagnoses. The list of dietary foods for special medical purposes paid in full or in part by the National Health Insurance Fund shall be validated in accordance with Regulation No 10 of 2009. In order to ensure accessibility and continuity of the treatment of health-insured persons to dietary foods for special medical purposes, as well as to supplement the List of dietary foods paid by the National Health Insurance Fund in accordance with the List of Diseases for which the NHIF pays home treatment, a decision was taken at a meeting held on 20 January 2020 by the Supervisory Board of the NHIF to update the List of Diet Foods for special medical purposes. A new specification of dietary foods for special medical purposes has been established, paid in full or in part by the National Health Insurance Fund. The opening of a procedure for the renewal of the List of Dietary Foods for special medical purposes in accordance with the List of Diseases for which the National Health Insurance Fund pays in full or in part medicinal products, medical devices and dietary foods for special medical purposes. In view of the above, I would like to assure you that the National Health Insurance Fund is taking action in accordance with its regulatory capabilities to ensure the treatment of patients with rare congenital exchange diseases with the necessary dietary foods for special medical purposes. When specifying the disease and the need to treat it with dietary foods for special medical purposes on your case, we could provide specific information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u126	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, I will introduce you after the completion of your cycle of answers with the particular case, but my question was principled. It is not a matter of a prepared response from your legal advisors at the Ministry that you present to me the structure of action in relation to medicinal foods. It is about your basic attitude as a minister to a patient in whom the state has taken over its treatment by the age of 18 in one area or another of clinical medicine. We know very well that in the huge percentage of cases the family cannot cope due to the high financial requirements for such a treatment. What is your view of the Committee on Rare Diseases? The general wording that a renewal of the List will be undertaken after January 20th, probably again on the occasion of which I will specifically inform you, is not a general solution. It is not in principle the solution to what I told you then, during the discussion of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for this § 15, for a very vulnerable group of patients: if a patient has such a serious illness of 17 years, 11 months and 29 days or 18 years and 1 hour, their treatment options differ sharply! This is called age segregation and is deeply denied by both the human principles of modern medicine and the entire European Union. I quoted you then and told you that the Minister of Health of Poland had allowed such segregation under and over 60 years for another disease and had received very severe sanctions, both from its country and from the European Union. In this sense, relying on your vision as a minister, what is your opinion? How can this issue be resolved in favor of Bulgarian patients? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u128	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Professor Mihailov, in no case does the Ministry of Health want to distinguish between treatment approaches for children up to 18 years of age and those who have reached 18 years of age, only that I do not want to create a list for up to 18 years of age, which we continue to develop after 18 years of age and vice versa. Those children who are 18 years old and continue to have the same need for the same diet food for special medical purposes, we will include this disease on the List and, accordingly, it will be provided, and the certificate will be provided for its further treatment, that is, we will not limit the right of this person and this family, which will not be able to provide the necessary funds for the purchase of the given medical food that is needed, and we will solve this issue with the List on which the National Health Insurance Fund will pay and after 18 years of age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u130	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question to Minister Ananiev is from MP Milko Nedyalkov about the return to Bulgarian health care of tens, even hundreds of million leva, drained from hospitals and the National Health Insurance Fund established by checks more than two years ago. You have the floor, dear Mr Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u131	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! On 5 December 2017, at a joint press conference, you, Mr. Minister, then Interior Minister Mr. Radev, I see him in the hall, and Prosecutor General Sotir Tsatsarov announced that joint checks are being carried out by the Health Ministry, the Ministry of Interior and the Prosecutor's Office in all state and municipal hospitals in the country for draining their budgets and funds of the Health Fund. Days after that, it was officially reported that in eight hospitals the hospital hospital was operating. For example, a private hospital in Vratsa has received a purely over 12 million. BGN without performing any medical activity. According to the competent authorities, however, the scale of the hospital in Lovech sets them. In the period 2010 it was damaged by 20 million. lv. at the expense of private structures. According to the statements of the then spokesperson of the Prosecutor General, the damages are still unappreciated, but we can imagine that we are talking about tens, even hundreds of million levs. The Director of the National Investigation states that this is actually not just about a specific amount, which in total for the twenty cases was several hundred million leva, but also about building a comprehensive picture of the causes of our sick health care, seen through the prism of the criminal policy of the state. My questions are: what is the amount of funds returned to the system of Bulgarian healthcare, then declared drained by hospitals and the National Health Insurance Fund? What laws will initiate your entrusted Ministry for changing the country's penal policy in the event of the draining of public resources designated for health care? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u132	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u133	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Nedyalkov, under the Law on Hospitals in the territory of a state or municipal hospital for hospital care, another hospital hospital can operate only on condition that clinics, wards and laboratories in both hospital care facilities carry out various activities. The Law on Medical Institutions provides for prior control regarding the non-execution of authorisations for medical activities in violation of the provisions of art. 9, para. 6 of the Law on Medical Institutions. The Medical Institutions Act provides for an explicit ground for refusing to issue a medical authorisation when finding discrepancies with the requirements of the legal framework. In order to verify compliance with these provisions on 5 December 2017, the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office presented to the Ministry of Health a copy of the reports drawn up by the Directorate General of the National Police, together with certified copies of contracts, with summary information on the contracts concluded falling under the hypothesis of art. 9, para. 6 of the Law on Medical Institutions. The same has been obtained in the Medical Audit Executive Agency, currently "Medical supervision" with instructions for carrying out joint checks with regional health inspections and regional health insurance funds in order to specify unlawful and inappropriately concluded contracts. In the period from 5 December 2017 to 15 December 2017, the Medical Audit Agency (Medical Audit Agency) jointly with RZI and RHIF carried out inspections in 25 hospitals in the territory of 14 districts in the country. The verification established seven contracts falling under the hypothesis of art. 9, para. 6 of the Law on Medical Institutions. After the completion of the checks, the submitted materials, together with a report on the results of the same, have been submitted to the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office for Follow-up. In addition to the checks and the resulting materials of the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office in order to improve the effectiveness of the country's criminal policy in cases of the draining of public health resources, the Ministry of Health has initiated changes to the legal framework. In order to create clarity and in order not to allow conflicting application of the provision of art. 9, para. 6 The bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on Medical Institutions is provided for a definition of the concept of the medical institution's term for hospital care, which will increase the effectiveness of the supervision carried out by the competent authorities in respect of its compliance. The Bill also proposes new administrative criminal provisions covering cases of breach of any provision of the Law on Medical Institutions or of a regulatory act on its application for which there is no administrative criminal composition. By means of these general administrative criminal provisions, it is intended to overcome the prerequisites for indiscipline of certain entities in the implementation of the Law on Medical Institutions. In addition to the above, the National Health Insurance Fund shall carry out control under the order of Chapter Two, Section X, Chapter 5 of the Health Insurance Act and instructions on the terms and conditions of control under art. 72 of the Health Insurance Act issued by the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. For the period from 1 January 2017 to 30 September 2019, the total amount of penalties imposed and recovery amounts from hospital care facilities of the National Health Insurance Fund amounted to 29 million. 414 thousand. BGN 374 as follows: in 2017 The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the 608 thousand. £638.; in 2018 The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are Seven hundred and 399 BGN, and until 30 September 2019 The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market Ninety thousand. BGN 337. One aspect of the control activities of the Executive Agency for Medical Supervision is namely the verification of unlawful practices in medical institutions. All administrative measures have been taken at the beginning of 2018, such practices, in cases of proven violations, to be immediately eliminated and not to be allowed in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u134	Thank you, dear Minister. The line is given by Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u135	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I understand the policy led by the Ministry of Health for stricter discipline in the absorption of public resources for healthcare. I see some steps which, as a Member of the National Assembly and as a citizen of this country, I welcome. But there is a principle issue here that is very interesting and that needs to be considered. You said that health institutions were subject to sanctions for improperly carrying out medical activities and spending public resources with nearly 29.5 million. lv. Interestingly, they are imposed on those establishments that make mistakes in the conduct of medical activities, but we no longer have in our legislation for those who have benefited, usually private companies, private hospitals in the hospital, who have used and acquired this resource. Our system of criminal proceedings does not provide for the return of these funds in any way. People don't accidentally ask, and they have a sense of injustice, that the person who drained the resources of the state hospital and the National Health Insurance Fund, then made himself a private hospital, for which he received permission from the Ministry of Health. Such cases I can point to you on the territory of the country no less than five. Such a policy, which creates prerequisites for the future for other actions that are for draining the Health Insurance Fund, as recently more expensive payment of medicines, as well as more expensive treatment for children in the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u136	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would like to assure you that the Ministry of Health is stepping up very much the control measures for spending the funds and the quality of spending these funds. Of all the cases we've sent to the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office, the results are in three directions. Some of the checks show that there are no violations. This is the case, for example, in Kardzhali. In other cases, the investigative action is ongoing and we expect to get the results. Third checks show that this practice has been terminated, some of which in my day. That's the case in Vratsa. I assure you, we haven't stopped. Until the work of the judiciary is finalised, we will continue to monitor this process and all the conclusions that we will draw from these checks and analyses will be used to improve control activities in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u138	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to Minister Ananiev is from the National Representative Georgi Mihailov on the closure of the Neurology Department of the Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment in Vidin. You have the floor, Mr. Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, the story of the problems with the activity of the Neurology Department in Vidin dates back to the middle of last year, when, perhaps misled by someone, you have raised an idea, and you remember what an impact it has had in the entire Northwestern region, for the closure, transformation and unification of individual medical activities in the Department of Clinical Medicine.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u140	Not about closing.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u141	To unite. Let us not now argue in the Chamber, you will say your opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u142	Tell the truth.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u143	I'm telling the truth. The one who raised this idea, not knowing the requirements for the implementation of medical activities in certain regions, had proposed the unification of the healing units. Then you had a very acute reaction, immediately the Ministry gave back, but the problems remained, despite the resignation of the governor of the district hospital in Vidin, of the constantly changing information flows that the department is being closed down, and not closed down, all efforts are being made. This problem is not only in Vidin. Until the development of the issue, I will present you with enough more of these healthcare sectors in the country, which represent the same problem and their solution does not move in a good logistical way. My question to you is, of course, about the Neurology Department in Vidin, because I know that you have been prepared with the on-call response, what is your attitude towards the overall crisis -- personnel and organisational -- regarding the functioning of strategic wards of district hospitals in the country that started with your positive assessment from the beginning of the month a year and a half ago, when you revealed something that the entire medical care community knows about -- how do certain hospitals stand in the heart of district hospitals? At that time, measures have been taken very painfully, but, unfortunately, so far, all these measures have not resulted in the result needed for the nation. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u144	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mikhailov, I have a request for you. I notice it in every single question you ask me. The question is specific, and then from the stands you expand it, strategically how you intend to decide. If you want to put the issue strategically, put it in the beginning. You have asked a specific question, this first. Secondly, I ask you very much, when you imagine the motives, do not use lies and false things. Third, I think the tone shouldn't be so bad. I've come here to inform you very well and professionally. The multi-profile hospital for active treatment is a joint stock company with mixed state and municipal capital participation, with 83.25 per 100 being a state participation in capital and the rest being distributed among municipalities in the district. The Ministry of Health has taken all necessary steps to stabilise the hospital in Vidin and its optimal functioning. In order to improve the management of the medical establishment is elected prosecutor Dr. Iveta Naydenova, who will manage and represent the company until the election of a new CEO. All necessary measures have been taken to operate the hospital's nervous system at a normal rate and its activity has not been stopped. For these days, a logistics organisation was established with the assistance of the Ministry of Health to redirect patients to hospitals in Lom, Belogradchik and Montana. Patients with neurological diseases during that period were hospitalized at the Hospital "St. Nikolay Miracleworker" Ltd., Lom. Currently, there is the readiness, if necessary, to work together with the hospital in Lom. From 10 January 2020, the intake of the nerve disease department has been restored. The medical team is completed according to the requirements of the medical standard of nerve disease. Three doctors have been appointed with the specialty of Nervous Diseases and three doctors. At present, the compartment is functioning in normal operating mode and nine patients were admitted to treatment as of 29 January 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u146	Thank you, dear Minister. A line, dear Mr. Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u147	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Minister, I ask you to keep the professional tone of the discussion, despite the fact that one can always come out of balance and not throw in the room, regardless of the minority presence in it, such harsh manipulations for the questions we ask you are about lies, suggestion. Open your internet, see your June statement last year. Look at the protest of the doctors in this region of the country, the consequences of the protest, and I don't need to convince you that these are false things. Let's call them culturally, shall we? For my tone, my God, nor has he ever been bitter... In addition, the questions we are asking here in this House are policy issues and it is a health policy strategy.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u148	Ask your question at first.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u149	Get to the point, Mr. Mikhailov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u150	We ask it on the basis of individual cases so that this way to enter into such a debate is not suitable for the level of the Bulgarian Parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u151	Only with you!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u152	Not just me, not just me! Please, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u153	Please get to the point!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u154	You've made similar statements before, not to call you respectable... Let's not get into these debates now. We can't let this get out of hand! The questions are serious! The health issues are serious! We're putting them on you very well. Since you are pushing me to expand the issue and this is normal in this case, I will give you another example for the Departments of Hematology in Burgas. I will ask you again not to quote me, not to introduce you, but to open your Internet, to see the way it is solved in quotes this problem of restoring the ward. With the appointment not of a hematologist, but of an endocrinologist, and at a retirement age, to solve the personnel problem of the Department of Hematology in Burgas. People aren't blind. People are in the company of their colleagues, they see the way of solving problems. My God, I most well-intentionedly say: in this way their solution, let alone in our relationship, to jump over such phrases. [[the President signals that time has run out]] will not be of use for Bulgarian healthcare. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u155	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Mr. Minister, the doppelganger?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u156	I don't want to.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u157	You won't. The next question to Minister Ananiev is from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Nona Yotova on the problems of people with the specific diseases of Malnutrition and malabsorption, and the measures that the Ministry will take to solve them. Mrs. Yotova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u158	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I'm sure you're familiar with people's problems with specific diseases. Malnutrition and malabsorption, that is, extremely low weight, malnourishment and inability to properly absorb nutrients. These people suffer from cancer, including with removed organs, such as esophagus and stomach, inflammatory bowel diseases, organ exhaustion, anorexia, metabolic disorders, genetic metabolic diseases, mucosidosis, extreme weight loss due to disorder or missing swallowing reflexes, cerebral palsy, muscle atrophy, muscle dystrophy. Many of these patients take food only through a probe. You should know that many of those suffering from rare and genetic diseases with a genetic diagnosis are left outside the health system. They are not subject to treatment because their disease is officially not listed in the register of rare diseases. There is still no clinical path for treatment of malnutrition and malabsorption in Bulgaria. Those who suffer from these diseases need medical foods that can be absorbed by their body, their organs to eat fully and not suffer further. These foods are vital to patients who, in practice, without them, starve to death. Unfortunately, for the cost of their supply, patients cannot rely on either the health or the social system, and these foods are expensive. The required amount for their purchase in one month is between BGN 800 and BGN 1700, on top of which most of them are not even available regularly on the Bulgarian market. Similarly, the cost of outpatient treatment is not covered by the Health Insurance Fund. We believe that this so serious problem lacks understanding from the state and its institutions. For many years different organizations have been conducting correspondence with the Ministry of Health and with the Health Insurance Fund, but without any result. These people feel abandoned and have the right to feel that way. Minister, we ask for an answer to the question: what will the Ministry of Health take to solve the problems of those affected to feel the support and care of their country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u159	Thank you, Mrs. Yotova. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u160	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yotova, Dear Mr. Gokov, Malnutrition and malabsorption conditions can result from a wide range of diseases affecting different organs and systems of the human body. Some of the diseases that may be the cause of malnutrition and malabsorption fall within the range of rare diseases, while in most cases patients have diseases that cannot be attributed to rare diseases according to the common definition of rare disease. For all these patients treatment is provided, and in the package of health activities guaranteed in the budget of the NHIF, opportunities for hospital treatment are included, where necessary, mainly in cases of moderate and severe malnutrition. Depending on the underlying disease resulting in malnutrition, treatment can be conducted through clinical pathways from the relevant area, e.g. in gastroenterology, nephrology, endocrinology, etc. In some of the clinical pathways in the relevant groups of diseases, a specific indication of hospitalization related to malnutrition is laid down. The scope of health activities guaranteed by the budget of the NHIF includes a specific clinical path on which the treatment of food disorders is carried out................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The diagnostic-treatment algorithm of the clinical path provides the possibility of diagnostic specification, treatment and determination of subsequent therapeutic behaviour in patients with malnutrition of children and adults. A specific indication of the hospitalization of patients with hereditary metabolic diseases, including rare genetic diseases, with metabolic disorders, is provided in the clinical path for adjustment of therapy and treatment of complications. As mentioned in another parliamentary question addressed to the Ministry, in the case of diseases and conditions relating to the need to receive special-purpose foods to meet specific nutritional needs of the patient, it is undoubtedly necessary to provide the necessary specific diet food for home treatment. In this regard, payment of dietary foods for special medical purposes is provided both under the Health Insurance Act and outside its scope. For the treatment of rare diseases in persons up to the age of 18, dietary foods may be paid under Ordinance No 2 of 2019 for medical and other services and under art. 82, para. 1a and 3 of the Health Act and the terms and conditions for their approval, used payment by means of a transfer from the budget of the Ministry of Health and the National Health Insurance Fund. All health-insured individuals who are indicated for treatment with them may be prescribed medicinal products, medical devices and dietary foods for special medical purposes. The National Health Insurance Fund reimburses the relevant diet food for special medical purposes in accordance with the established regulation for diseases included in the list of diseases for which home treatment NHIF pays in full or in part the medicinal products, medical devices and diet foods for special medical purposes, which are validated by the Supervisory Board of the NHIF. In order to ensure accessibility and continuity of the treatment of health-insured persons on 20 January 2020, the NHIF Supervisory Board decided to update the dietary food list by establishing a new specification of dietary foods for special medical purposes, payment Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u161	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Gokov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, our question with Mrs. Yotova is provoked by an initiative on the Christmas holidays of non-governmental organizations, which aimed to direct the attention of the people's representation to one, according to them and I think a screaming problem, which for years has been neglected and concerns all patients who have to use special medical foods. I am impressed by their correctness and by the extremely good tone with which they set their problems and insisted in some way that the state and the people's representation should pay attention to them. I confess not that I didn't know about this problem, but I didn't know that it affected these people to such an extent. Since then, I have read a great deal of information about these diseases, and I will not mention the names of them - Malnutrition and malabsorption - because it is difficult for me to pronounce them. I am aware that these people are not stubborn or anything else that raises the issue in public space, but that there is some problem with them. From today's answer I realized that almost everything is fine in providing special foods, because you also gave me medical pathways, regulations and money. I promise you that after the meeting is over and when the transcript comes out, we will read it carefully, because I couldn't make sense of everything you said to me right now, we will get together with those people who raised the question, and we will see if they are satisfied with the answer. I personally say that what I have heard does not satisfy me. It is not important for me to be satisfied, but it is important for these people to feel the concern of the state and that they are being paid attention. The bad thing about this case is they hardly believe us, because so far there's no understanding of the case. In their letter they said that since 2012 they have written to the Ministry of Health and to the National Health Insurance Fund, but there have been no results. I'm sorry, we may be getting away with your response, where you think the situation is relatively good. I think it is not good at all, but we will certainly have the opportunity.. not within two minutes, but in a larger discussion with a question on the policies on this issue, let us see what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u163	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u164	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, personally, my team and I have met these people. We are fully aware of their problems. What I have listed and what is currently functioning helps to solve their problem, but it is no coincidence in my main response that I have highlighted the functions that the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund performs with regard to the list and specification where we are trying to solve, through their expansion, the problems that exist in these people, these patients. This list of treatments, of diseases, is also included in the case I think you're talking about, which was around New Year's Eve, so this problem is solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u165	Thank you, dear Minister. We continue with a question to Minister Ananiev by the National Representative Georgi Mihailov concerning trends in the development of Bulgarian healthcare, assessed by the European Union. You have the floor, Mr. Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Minister, on 9 January 2020, a press conference of the European Commission Representation in Bulgaria was held in Sofia, where two specialists - Philip Domanski and Annie Spranger - presented their views in several main strategic directions of healthcare in the country. The conclusions they made and which they provided at the press conference, I guess they're not new to me or to you. They've been repeating themselves for the last 24 months without having any social change. The main ones are: the huge percentage of private healthcare costs in Bulgaria, which does not comply with either the rules of the World Health Organization or the European Union policy; the very high cost of medicines, which, however, is very high, I could comment on afterwards, at the risk of being accused of expanding the issue beyond what I have already asked, and the large percentage of hospital expenditure. What is your opinion on the facts and conclusions of this press conference in the Republic of Bulgaria by representatives of the European Commission? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u167	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u168	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Professor Mihailov, the main recommendation for Bulgaria by the European Union is to improve access to health services, including by reducing direct payments by patients and addressing the shortage of medical professionals. The Ministry of Health is in the process of preparing detailed information on the 2019 Bulgaria Report, including an in-depth review on the prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances and the European Semester for 2019; an assessment of the progress of structural reforms in the health part. Bulgaria has been working hard to improve access to health services, including through an annual increase in public spending in the sector. ".................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Regulation laying down a package of health activities guaranteed by the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020 establishes sound prerequisites for reducing direct payments by patients by extending the scope and volume of clinical pathways and increasing the number of outpatient procedures paid by the NHIF. The National Framework Treaty 2020 will ensure stability in the health system and the possibility for patients to receive a quality medical service in clear rules and mechanisms, while health professionals will be better paid. A clear regulation is established as to what part of the revenue of the hospital care facility should be directed to the remuneration of medical staff in the proportion of remuneration between the individual categories of staff, which I hope will have a positive impact on the motivation of medical professionals and will contribute to reducing staff shortages. Access to health services shall also be guaranteed for the most vulnerable groups of society, including the exemption from payment of a consumer fee for the use of medical assistance from the NHIF basic package within the framework of compulsory health insurance. The budget of the Ministry of Health shall finance a number of health activities outside the scope of the health insurance insurance and medical care during pregnancy and birth for all women, regardless of health insurance status, long-term treatment of premature children and children with disabilities, emergency medical care, mental health and others. In order to improve the control of the activities of the medical institutions, the Executive Agency was established "Medical supervision', which also includes checks on the patient's basis for supplementary payment in order not to allow unauthorised payments. In the National Framework Treaty In order to ensure the proper functioning of the health care system, it is necessary to ensure that the health care provider does not require payment or additional payment by the insured person for types of medical care paid by the NHIF outside the intended amount, with the exception of medical devices for certain clinical pathways, outpatients or clinical procedures in which this is explicitly indicated. The Ministry of Health has taken action, including with amendments to the Health Insurance Act, to categorically regulate the rights of health insured persons and to reduce direct payments, and for this purpose explicitly determine the specific cases in which payment and supplementary payment by mandatory health insured persons are eligible for medical care, and they are bound by an explicit request by the persons. To overcome the shortage of medical professionals, which is a problem not only in Bulgaria, but also in most countries in the European Union, a number of measures have been taken by the Ministry of Health related mainly to improving the regulations for the acquisition of a specialty in the healthcare system, which will provide an adequate number of highly qualified health professionals in all specialties. The Ministry of Health has started working on the preparation of a new National Health Strategy, which as a key strategic document will specify the objectives for the development of the health system. The sustainable improvement of the health of Bulgarian citizens in all age groups will be at the heart of health policy and the aim is to continue the trend of improving the main health-demographic indicators as a concentrated expression of the state of the sector. As regards the press conference of the representatives of the European Observatory on Health Policies and their findings and assessments, I assure you that they will be taken into account by the team of the Ministry of Health in the work this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u169	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Mikhailov, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u170	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I, as a parliamentary speaker, believe that parliamentary control is a form of effective interaction between the institution of the National Assembly and the Council of Ministers and I very much hope that there will be positive solutions in the debates we are having here. I will therefore repeat again: the problem that has been highlighted first by the representatives of the European Commission is the great personal cost. You probably know, Mr. Minister, that the vast majority of the personal expenses of Bulgarian citizens go not to pay for separate fragments of hospital care, but for medicines. You know that the reimbursing leaves in Bulgaria are extremely short. Apart from some large groups of socially significant diseases, in the rest it is incomparable with Central countries and not to mention Western Europe. Secondly, you also know very well as an economist that per capita for health care in Bulgaria is spending funds that are much lower than all other countries in the European Union, and compared to Romania, it is even embarrassing for me to say it right now - countries that have entered the European Union together and have been moving together to a certain point... Therefore, my constructive and positive question to you is with regard to drug policy, as I dare say that some of the conclusions, as a specialist of the European Commission, are not in favor of Bulgaria and do not present the real picture. Yes, the costs of medicines are many, but you know very well that when you go to Germany, against the recipe you pay some minimum amount and you get all the medicines; that the number of euro spent medicines per capita in Bulgaria is unparalleled with those in the European Union, that is, it is a one-percent presentation of things, but it does not present the whole picture and all the problems regarding the drug release, the provision of Bulgarian citizens with medicines and the overall health policy, along with the policy of hospital treatment. In this sense, I would like to see your vision of how you see the change in the supply of medicines in the next period of time. You are talking now about 2020 Strategy 2025 as a solution to these problems, as combined with respectively the relatively low incomes of the population, this becomes a major problem for the Bulgarian nation and, in particular, the most socially wounded groups of the population, such as pensioners and children. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u171	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Mr. Secretary? The last question to Minister Ananiev is from the MPs Kristian Vigenin and Nikolay Penev about the lack of action and the planned costs for completing the new hospital complex in Yambol. Please, Mr Penev, ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u172	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, once again we are putting in front of you the very important issue for the residents of Yambol and the district regarding the completion of the building of the new hospital complex of the Multifunctional Hospital. This is because your assurances from this platform that the Council of Ministers has provided the necessary financial resources to complete the building with a deadline 2021 are only a promise without clarity of its implementation in the near future. In our view, the lack of progress in the realization of the government of GERB as early as 2012 commitment to complete the new hospital complex in Yambol is an expression of neglecting the problem and delaying its solution in time and perhaps refusing to implement it at all. And all of this is at the expense of the quality of health services in the Yambol hospital, which, as you very well know, is a pavilion type built at the beginning of the last century, serves a population over 60 thousand. souls, and their wards are housed in different buildings, long distances away from each other and which are currently far from the standards of modern medicine. Some of them need major repairs. In this regard, Dear Minister, we ask you again to answer this question: will the government fulfil the commitment made to the Yambol residents to complete the building of the new hospital complex and, if so, what deadlines? Secondly, are the necessary funds provided for this purpose and what is their amount after the update of the project? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u173	Thank you, dear Mr Penev. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u174	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Vigenin and Mr. Penev, with the aim of providing funds to complete the new hospital complex in Yambol by Decision No 266 of 9 May 2019, the Council of Ministers agreed to increase the capital of the Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment lv. The funds provided for the increase in the capital of the company are for the construction of a new hospital block for 250 hospital beds, in which the activities of the hospital will be carried out. A technical project and a quantitative account of approximately 27 million has been drawn up by the company. lv. with VAT. A public contract was announced but since only one tender was submitted with a proposed execution price exceeding the value of the funding provided, the procedure was terminated. In view of the above, the Council of Ministers adopted a new Decision No 805 of 27 December 2019 amending Decision No 266 allowing the State to increase its shareholding in the capital of the Hospital lv. subject to the requirements of the Public Finance Act by year, as follows, i.e. those amounts that I will tell you for the three years are in the country's three-year budget forecast. For 2020 This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of commitments remaining to be settled from previous Five hundred thousand. lv.; for 2021 The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 400,000. BGN, and for 2022 This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the $100,000. lv. In this way, the government's commitment, respectively to the Ministry of Health, is confirmed to provide the necessary funding to complete the new hospital complex in Yambol through an increase in the capital of the Hospital St. Pantaleon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u175	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Vigenin, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I can't say I'm satisfied with that answer. This is the third time I've asked my colleague Nikolai Penev about finishing the hospital complex. I just want to remind you that the first promises and actions, in quotes, are from 2012 in Boyko Borisov's first cabinet. In the second cabinet, then Minister of Health, 2015 says that within a year and a half the hospital will be moved, not just completed, but moved. Then, in this term and Mr. Nikolay Petrov we asked, who said that he was thinking on three options...... funding, public-private partnership, which he considered most appropriate, funding at stages, and these things are not mutually exclusive. Exactly two years ago we talked to you, you talked about the Prime Minister's engagement, the Minister of Finance's hospital will be there. Two years later, there's no hospital. I am not saying that the reason why this is so is necessarily only inability, I am not saying reluctance, because you are demonstrating desire, you are saying that the government has this desire, but the inability to organise the process so that people can finally get the new hospital. Time passes, the situation in the present is getting worse. You know of the problems that are not only with the building, but also with the medical staff. You know for sure that a large part of the Yambol children are not born in Yambol, but in other cities because of the state of the hospital. Other examples can be given. I don't understand, and if you can clarify this: once it became clear that 27 million obviously is not enough, given that the account that came out after the auction is 9 million more, you are now giving back as much, despite what the Prime Minister has stated in another election campaign, I think it was for the local elections that they are ready to release as much as it should finally end this hospital. My specific question is, why is the sum again 27 million? Where are these funds planned to be transferred, provided they are not provided for in the state budget? To point out that in China, in a week in a naked meadow, they built a new hospital. We've been here for years, years, we've been lying to people. You, I mean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u177	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr Vigenin, I think that the two decisions of the government clearly show and demonstrate the desire of the Council of Ministers and what the Prime Minister has made as a commitment to really finish the hospital in Yambol. First you said you didn't know if the money was provided. The money is provided, I said, in the three-year budget forecast and in the budget of the Ministry. So there will be no problem of being transferred to three times, as foreseen, the appropriate funds for capital increase. I think the money is enough. The technical assignment clearly shows that this is the resource within which the building can be finished. We've really had problems with the GOP procedures, but I think this year things have been cleaned up and the construction, which means finishing up the hospital will begin. A new auction will be announced. I hope this auction, based on the technical assignment, will be completed successfully and we will begin to finish the building. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u179	Thank you, dear Minister. We continue with a question to Mr. Emil Dimitrov, Minister of Environment and Water. He will answer a question from the National Representative Vasil Antonov about the disposal of waste in Pleven imported from Italy. You have the floor, dear Mr. Antonov, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u180	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, in the first days of 2020, the District Prosecutor's Office in Pleven announced that it formed pre-trial proceedings for the presence of 9 thousand tonnes of waste imported from Italy and opened at a depot in Pleven. According to the statements of the head of the District Prosecutor's Office in the town of Pleven, the waste has been imported for one year, but until now no action has been taken on their processing. Consequently, after asking my question, it turned out that the waste has been imported for the last five years at this site, particularly actively after 2018, when the introduction of particularly dangerous 24 types of solid waste is prohibited in China by law. In this regard, as regards the landfilled waste in Pleven imported from Italy, please answer me how are these waste transported from Italy to Bulgaria and what is their purpose? Does the storage site have relevant RIEW permits? And if there is, does it correspond to the appropriate Classifier code for the waste there? Do hazardous elements and materials contain the waste stored on the site in the industrial area in Pleven? In what way is the depot in Pleven defined for their storage? What is the control carried out by your trusted Ministry? Thank you. I await your objective response.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u181	Thank you, dear Mr. Antonov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u182	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Antonov, Phenix Pleven Company holds a registration document under the Waste Management Act. The company is allowed to carry out activities with code R3 - recycling, activities with code R12 - prior treatment and activities with code R13 - acceptance and storage of waste until one of the activities with codes R1 and R12 is carried out. The activities carried out on the sites are with waste of plastics and rubber, packaging, wood materials, paper, cardboard, plastic, glass and composite, multi-layer packaging and other waste. The area is surrounded by a checkpoint, permanent pavement is laid. There is no waste depot status, therefore the requirements for landfilled waste are not applicable. The storage areas of the waste shall be separated. On the basis of a duly issued registration document and a complete additional set of required documents notified by an Italian authority competent for the application of the Waste Transport Regulation, as well as a positive opinion by the RIEW Pleven, for the eligibility of import and readiness of treatment facilities, the Ministry of Environment and Water has given consent to shipments of more than 9000 tonnes of waste code 19112, other wastes including mixtures for mechanical treatment from Italy. The waste was transported in accordance with a previously approved route by sea from the port of Naples to the port of Varna and then by trucks to the site of the company in the town of Pleven. All waste is insured according to the requirements of the Regulation. The Ministry of Environment and Water shall exercise control of this agreement by means of four checks carried out by the competent Deputy Minister in the period, four times additionally by July 2018 until November 2019, of the implementing control body of the Regional Inspectorate of Environment and Waters Pleven. In the four checks, no further infringements were found either under the terms of the waste activity registration documents issued or under the terms of the agreement on the transport and recovery of waste. Subsequently, 4311 tonnes of granulate for storage were found in the checks carried out. It is also found that outside the waste under the consent given in addition, the company has made imports of waste 191204 plastic and rubber from Italy. In October 2019 the company also received 822,64 tonnes of waste code 191212 originating in Bulgaria, which are also stored on the site. According to the provisions of the Waste Transport Regulation, the company has a one-year period to recover them from the date of admission into the facility. For one third of these waste, this deadline will expire in April this year. The premises of the company were sealed on 2 January 2020 in connection with pre-trial proceedings No 206/2019 for an indefinite period. According to the Regulation, according to the results of the wine investigation of the consignor, waste will be returned to Italy; in the event that waste cannot be recycled, as planned, due to the recipient's fault, an eco-friendly treatment order will be issued at the expense of the waste company.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u183	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u184	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, everything you say would have value if the prosecution's follow-up wasn't what they are. In case you are not aware, there has been a person detained in Pleven since yesterday, precisely for this reason for transporting and storing hazardous waste, not those under code 19112, but of slag and other solid waste corresponding to code 191211. This is precisely the reason why the Prime Minister of Italy is in Bulgaria, I hope for the identification of the reasons why much of the harmful waste has been found in Bulgaria. Because it turns out that not only in Pleven are these waste, later it turns out that they are in Vratsa, in many other settlements, mines and so on. So the question I want to ask you, the additional question for you is: first of all, do these waste correspond to the code on which they were adopted in Bulgaria? Who are the employees who have allowed such a discrepancy between what has been mentioned and what has been accepted? How and how and in what time will society know the true state of harmful waste? Where will they be destroyed or moved? To a large extent, it was at the end of last year that question was also raised by an Italian journalist, resulting in major revelations. Let us be objective and the expectations of society are for honesty and integrity in commenting on this topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u185	Thank you, dear Mr. Antonov. Would you like a douche? Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u186	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Antonov! Yeah, like you, I saw the news yesterday, I know what's going on, and I know a few days earlier, I guess you, when you asked that question 10 days before, didn't know anything was gonna happen yesterday. Everything taken by the Ministry of Environment and Water is based on international regulations and on documents received by RIEW Pleven, which directly exercises control over the activity. Regardless of everything, four additional checks have been carried out......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... All the protocols sent from Pleven to Sofia show that everything is normal. And these are four additional checks before the entire procedure is resolved at all, i.e. there are five totals at the beginning and four after. For all subsequent events, waste which does not comply with the codes, authorisations and checks carried out and certified by documents which do not comply with the actual or factual situation, liability and obligations of those who issued them, there is a pre-trial procedure at the moment. In the judicial system, it is the judicial authorities who will determine who has committed an infringement or a crime in the chain. With us the documents show that everything corresponds and we cannot on the spot say the permission given afterwards who and what will import with it the obligation is of the local structures, they are absolutely operationally independent within the framework of the law. Besides the original, four more times has been asked, and it is answered that everything is fine. These documents have been seized and handed over to the investigating authorities. There's a lot of cases like this. Public intolerance is great. And in Batak, we're about to pick up two canisters and send them back to Italy. And in Varna they have containers, you are also familiar with a series of containers that are about to be returned to Italy. You know, there was a pile of junk next to a highway that burned down and compromised the bridge, it was built. It has been found that the same company continues to store waste near the bridge, to endanger life, health of people and to burn the bridge again, so that it will be given a prescription under any possible forced administrative measure, it will be prohibited to carry out the activity until all malfunctions are resolved. In this regard, all our other actions are also. Everywhere in the country right now, people who know they can't realize imported waste are trying to clean it up and dump it on the derettas. In this regard, it is an order and a letter that we sent to the district managers and all local self-government bodies to monitor what is happening around them, to observe farmyards and industrial sites, so as not to allow unauthorised storage of waste and unauthorised release, disposal of waste anywhere on the territory of the country.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u187	Thank you, dear Minister. There is a question from the MPs Ivelina Vassileva and Emil Hristov about taking measures by the Ministry of Environment and Water to prevent violations in the field of waste management legislation. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva. You have the floor to develop the questioning in three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u188	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, colleagues! Dear Minister, the subject of our inquiry was the subject of the previous question and of your hearing in the Committee on Environment and Water yesterday. The energetic and decisive actions that you have taken in the short time since you have held this important position and taken this ministry have been welcomed and encouraged by us, the MPs. But I think it is important that the public be aware of all the measures and actions taken by this platform. Because the issue of waste causes great concern and intolerance in society. It is directly related to the state of the environment and hence to the lives and health of people. In the last month, information on unregulated practices related to the import, storage, treatment and disposal of waste is repeatedly exported to the media area. Another known case has been discovered yesterday by 102 containers of the Varna port, also waste dumped in a military plant in Batak. Previously there were cases of abandoned waste containers in the ports in Burgas and Varna, waste of unclear origin or owner in Lom, in Vratsa, near Galabovo and others. All these cases quite logically cause concern. It is also undoubtedly due to the lack of sufficient confidence in the control that the Ministry of Environment and Water implements. It is control that must ensure that both environmental pollution and health risks are not affected. It is important to note that our legislation fully transposes European legislation and, of course, is implementing international legislation. Moreover, the norms are even more restrictive. And the Ministry of Environment and Water is the institution that implements waste management policy. Both the Central Administration and the Regional Divisions of the Ministry must carry out preventive, current and subsequent controls on the implementation of waste management legislation. In this regard, please inform us, Minister, of the following: What are the findings and results of the checks carried out by the Ministry of Environment and Water and its control bodies in relation to cases exported to the media for unauthorised practices related to the import, storage, treatment and disposal of waste? What are the measures you have taken and are planning to prevent violations of waste management legislation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u189	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u190	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Vasileva! In relation to the increased control of the waste activity and joint checks of state institutions, regional inspections, the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, DANS and others, the Prosecutor's Office have increased the cases of established uncontrolled storage of waste within the country. Violators of the regulatory requirements require attempts to release such waste and to dispose of unauthorised sites. Based on the information currently received from all control and enforcement authorities, we can draw the following conclusions: One. The findings of the violations are in the case of shipments of waste, subject to the general information requirements of the so-called Green List, which, according to the European and the legislation in force in Bulgaria, are not subject to prior notification and consent. We must accept them as they accept ours. There have been many violations. I have had occasion to say once before that we have extremely European legislation, which we are applying here in a different way than that applied throughout Europe. Two. In most of the cases announced, mixed waste of domestic origin submitted for plastic and rubber waste, in order to avoid a prior notification and consent procedure. Three. Pre-dominant waste violations are coded: 191204 Four. In many cases, the recipient of the waste is the same company registered as a trader and as a broker who is not entitled to act as a recipient, respectively an importer, for the purpose of cross-border transportation of the waste in Bulgaria. The following measures shall be taken as a prevention of non-compliance: A 100% physical control of the borders of the Union and of the country shall be carried out by the authorities of the Directorate-General for Border Police and the Departments of Road Police in the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior in the transport of waste of codes 191104, 191210 and 191211. They have been developed and are about to receive instructions for interaction between the Ministry of Environment and Water, the Ministry of Interior, the Directorate of Border Police and the Departments of Road Police in the Ministry of Interior, as well as in the Ministry of Environment and Waters to increase control over cross-border transportation of waste. A notification procedure shall be introduced for the transport of waste from the so-called Green List.. at least three working days before the start of each transport or introduction into the territory of the country to be sent to the RIEW at the destination of the waste where it is to arrive; a copy of the completed form under Annex No 7 of the Waste Transport Regulation signed in Box No 12. Legislative changes are being prepared relating to the introduction of bank guarantees for all sites on which waste activities are carried out, as well as for traders and waste brokers, which up to now could register companies with a very minimal amount and, in practice, remain unpunished from financial penalties in case they are caught. The Ministry of Environment and Water establishes an Operational Centre for Control of Cross-border Waste Transport. It will receive and receive real-time information about each individual transport crossing the borders of the Republic of Bulgaria. The information shall be allocated to the relevant RIEW for the territory in which those waste is intended to track the load and control the recovery. This information will be sent directly every day after receipt in equal volume and content and to the Ministry of Interior for their implementation, at their discretion. Operators in this centre will ensure coordination and interaction with all control bodies under the Waste Transport Regulation. In addition, measures have been taken to strengthen control of waste sites and facilities. Checks will be carried out on these sites, which received more than two systemic or two major infringements last year to proceed with the closure and withdrawal of the permit, because system offenders will no longer need to work on our territory. In 2019, a total of 8868 inspections were carried out in respect of the implementation of the provisions of the Waste Management Act and the regulations of the Regional Inspections. In the case of infringements identified by sector, the amount of EUR 882 thousand in criminal decrees was 224. £900. We do not believe that this is enough and this year it must continue with much greater force and with much greater sanctions, because the public intolerance to this issue is extremely high. We must take all the action we are required to meet these expectations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u191	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Hristov, come in for some supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, every day we are flooded with new reports of waste, which brings even more anxiety. Here are the last cases! Even in Batak, the one we mentioned, the owner said he was going to start moving the waste. Where? People don't know where. Is there a permit? Where will they be stored? This further increases anxiety. What happens to all these waste that is already on the territory of the country? In Stara Zagora, this issue has already been raised several times, I think it was on 15 January 2020, it was reported that a large amount of waste has been found at the site of Briquette Production. I do not ask the question that there is a solution for a huge amount of more than 1.5 million. Ton of waste. This thing in general makes me wonder: what is the total amount of waste in the country imported in recent years? What do we have in the country? Do we have an answer? What do we do with this junk? I ask: what do we do with these waste? What's going on? We are witnessing that Malaysia has returned more than 4,000. tons of waste, and that of rich European countries. Thank you for your preventative answer to one of the questions you have answered incredibly comprehensively, and I simply will not ask it. It was: how is the control organised from now on, not only the input control, how is the subsequent control of what is entering the country organised? But the question that continues to stand before us is: how much waste is there at the moment, and what are we going to do with those already accumulated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u193	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer the supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u194	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On your questions, Mr. Hristov, what will be the control? It is what it is throughout Europe, but obviously for Bulgaria is insufficient and we will need to increase control powers in this regard. My goal, which I have been trying to achieve by talking to colleagues, considering how we can, without violating the current legislation and already taking European agreements and measures, is not to burden the administration further because it has its own functions and tasks, but to create an operational inter-institutional coordination centre that will exchange information in real time, as the institutions are not currently speaking. The control is actually from the border police. Customs and RIEW on site. They then go and check on what they have. A large part of the introduction of these waste into Bulgaria, no matter how in containers, in bigbacks, trucks, is not even on notification mode. They have the right to introduce them, they have the right to use them after three years or so, after two years, after a year we understand what happened. It's all over Europe. We export more waste than we import, but we have a problem with those who are imported. The situation thus created could not continue, so we created this coordination centre. I'll explain what it is. On the border, when a customs officer or border guard, because we have different regimes, finds that there are waste and does not see the accompanying documents or is not confident about what is riding in the truck, Sofia will mention individuals who, on several Take it back... or. This is subject to entry, but we will check it on the site To make sure that this thing is going to happen, we have established a coordination for which the relevant letters are to be signed. Yesterday, the Ministry of Interior was with us, but as we will in real time provide them with full information about us, too, concerning our activity in particular. The same is true for the customs and border police and RIEW. The goal is that when they are introduced, even at the border to register, we should know, and RIEW, when they arrive at the site, it is the Ministry to send a team, or the Ministry of Interior, or everyone together to know what is happening. The measure taken to withdraw the permissions for sites that have been compromised, to traders who are already in bad faith practices and, above all, to brokers who, until now, without any concern from a sanction, could exercise this activity, have been terminated as long as the legislative initiative is adopted by you. The aim is for all in the chain who engage in this kind of activity to be in equal rights and equal responsibilities. One has collateral and the other has collateral. I can list a short list I don't know the time I have, but what you see is the tip of the iceberg...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u195	You have one more minute at least.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u196	...and it's extremely big for us. In Blagoevgrad, in Burgas, we have dozens of containers in Varna. It's all pretty much from Italy. Keep in mind that we closed one of the power plants, the other won't get permission at this stage until the environmental impact assessment passes. So we have four capacities that work. It's a lot less than it was a few days ago. All the quantities that were intended for there are currently starting to come out one way or another. It is actually an assessment that the measures are working, although it is unpleasant for us. Wherever these cargoes come out, they should be insured and the insured person should take the return to the country that is the consignor. You understand that this criminal activity, which is currently developing, needs to be crossed, and in this regard, our efforts are ours. I can list the cities of Vratsa, Montana, several inquiries; the prosecution; pre-trial proceedings have been brought in Montana, hordes from Italy; in Pazardzhik, Ecobulhardt, an act has been drawn up by the Inspection to establish the infringement; from Romania we have, in Pazardzhik, the pollution of the Maritsa river, in Pazardzhik, in Pazardzhik also have a problem; RIEW Pernik. As I have told you, a Conventional Protocol on the identification of infringements committed in Dupnitsa is to be drawn up today and this warehouse is to be closed. Similarly, all other sites that do not comply with the rules will be closed. Until now, the European regime applied to us is, the Ministry with all the documents subsequently drawn up to issue its permission to.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Obviously this mechanism in Bulgaria is being circumvented. Our legislation is European, it is good, but it is not applied in the way we would like it to. We'll increase the measures. I hope for your support.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u197	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. You have the floor to express your attitude towards the answer, Mrs. Vasileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, it is clear from your presentation that you are working hard, responsible and seriously to improve the quality and effectiveness of the controls carried out by the Ministry of Environment and Water and its departments. Weaknesses in control must be overcome in order to ensure that unregulated practices, infringements, pollution and risks to human health are not fully avoided. To this end, it is also necessary to strengthen the administrative capacity of the Ministry of Environment and Water. It is a fact that in the last three years many experts, people with close professional knowledge and specific competences have been released. This undoubtedly affects the quality of the work, including the performance of the control work. I am convinced that the introduction of stricter mechanisms for control and coordination both within the Ministry and in the interaction with regional structures and other departments will best be possible to achieve the desired results and to increase public confidence in the policies implemented by the Ministry of Environment and Water. In summary, the key is strengthening control, improving administrative capacity, coordination and interaction with other control authorities and competent authorities. Be assured that we MPs will also support legislative changes in this direction, just as last year we proposed texts in the law with which we introduced mandatory video surveillance at sites where there is solid fuel and waste burning and landfills. We recommend that intensive checks be carried out for the availability of such installed equipment. Of course, we all welcome your efforts, steps and actions that you have taken. We wish you success and hope for results soon. You can also count on us to support and with regard to necessary legislative changes in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u199	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vasileva. And thank you, Mr. Dimitrov, for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to the questions to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. I would like to inform you that parliamentary control will continue shortly after 2 pm to exhaust all three questions to Minister Avramova. The first one is from Mrs. Smilyana Nivva on construction of a truck parking lot at the border checkpoint of Captain Andreevo. Here you are, Mrs. Niva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u200	Dear Minister, at the border checkpoint, Captain Andreevo is forming mileage queues of heavy-duty cars, sometimes reaching 25 km. Traffic jams create chaos and is a prerequisite for road accidents. Pretty soon, there were traffic accidents like this. In December last year the municipal council in Svilengrad voted a declaration to Prime Minister Boyko Borisov with requests for emergency measures, which predict the construction of a parking lot near the point where the trucks wait. My question is: is financing and building in an urgent order of so-called parking?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u201	Thank you, dear Mrs. Niva. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Niveva, experts at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works were carefully acquainted with the statement of the Municipal Council of Svilengrad adopted on 5 December 2019. The issue of the formation of mileage queues of vehicles on the motorway of Maritsa I would like to assure you that the Ministry and the Agency are in no way distanced from the problem and therefore, over the years, they have awarded numerous activities to alleviate the situation in accordance with their powers laid down in the Roads Act. On this occasion, the development of a project for the organization of traffic for road connection is being carried out "Generalovo" Motorway "Maritsa" at km 107+600 to road I-8 at km 377+740. The section from the first-class road from the connection with the highway to the road hub. "Captain Andreevo" where the motor vehicles are included back in the highway "Maritsa" has a length of 2 km and has a three-way gauge. It is in a very good general state and if compromised areas are found on the pavement during the winter period, they will be replaced in a timely manner. The new movement organisation will enable heavy goods vehicles to be redirected and to wait on the first-class road, without interfering with other road vehicles at the motorway of Maritsa. There are garbage cans in the precinct, two private parking lots with restaurants next to them, which are equipped with bathrooms. The new movement organisation will contribute to improving the road environment on the motorway. The project was agreed in the Road Infrastructure Agency and at the beginning of December last year was submitted to examine and pronounce competence in the sector. After its coordination, the necessary road signs will be installed and the horizontal marking will be aligned with the project. Here is the point to draw attention to the fact that building a parking area with sufficient capacity for heavy goods vehicles near the point for which you are putting the issue is within the competence of more than one office. Nevertheless, we express our readiness for joint coordinated action with the other competent institutions to resolve this problem. I would like to say that applications for investment intentions from private investors, which we support and are ready to assist in the implementation of their investment proposals within the framework of our competence on the procedures for granting permissions for special use of roads through the construction and operation of road service complexes and road links to them when an application is made by an interested person. We welcome such private investment intentions to build parking lots, service areas within them, including equipped with bathrooms and dining facilities, so we will assist any private investor willing to build such a parking lot. Specially for this area has an investment intention by a private investor on its own ground to build a large truck parking lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u203	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Ms. Niva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u204	Dear Minister, I have heard your intentions to ease, stay and traffic the heavy goods vehicles in this area, which makes it difficult for the traffic on the Maritsa Motorway, but I have not heard an answer to my question: will there be and when will such a parking for these heavy goods vehicles be built, as the issue is complicated by several countries? Firstly, this stay of the motorway itself makes it difficult to move on it and is a prerequisite for road accidents. On the other hand, truck drivers, during their stay, pollute the environment by dumping waste and there is no toilet. Bulgaria, as a Member State of the European Union, should settle this matter, as it has resolved in other Member States of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u205	Thank you, dear Mrs. Niva. Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Nivva, in my reply, I explained in detail about the project that has been drawn up and is currently waiting for coordination from the sector of the Road Police for the relief of traffic and for the diversion of the trucks along the first-class road, where they can wait for the passage through the point where there are also recreational areas with bathrooms. At the end of my reply, I stressed that there is a private investor in the area right at the border checkpoint, who wants to have an official correspondence with the Ministry and the Agency, to build a large truck parking lot. So this is a private initiative, which we support and would support for every place along highways, first-class and second-class roads in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u207	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. We move on to the next question from the MP Kristina Sidorova about the Shipka Pass. Here you are, Mrs. Sidorova, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u208	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Minister! The Shipchen Pass is one of the most important transport links between North and South Bulgaria. Its length is 29 km and is located on the territory of the districts of Gabrovo and Stara Zagora. The passage is part of Republican route I-5. This is also the fastest link between North and South Bulgaria, and for our district, Gabrovo District, the passage is important even, I can say vitally important because this is the direct link of our area to southern Bulgaria. I remind you that this is the route to the Monument of Freedom of Mount Shipka. In just a month there will be thousands of people there to celebrate another anniversary of the liberation of Bulgaria from Turkish slavery. Unfortunately, the condition of the pavement is more than compromised. The asphalt is not in good condition, especially on the side of Gabrovo district. These facts are a prerequisite for crashes and tragic incidents. Periodically there are both falls and landslides, as in fact at the moment. For nearly a year now a temporary organization of the movement there is continuing because of another failure of the road. This road is about km 164+150, and this, again, is a prerequisite for a traffic accident. I know that at the moment the priority of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works is the tour of the town of Gabrovo and the future construction of a tunnel under Shipka, but this does not mean that the Shipchen Pass must remain without support and be in the state in which it is currently. In this regard, my question to you is: when will the pavement and fortified landslide be restored?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u209	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sidorova. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u210	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Sidorova, after consulting the register of landslides of the Republic of Bulgaria it was found that no landslide was registered in the compromised section of Republican road I-5, E-85 Gabrovo. In this case, the road lane falls in the part of the banquet, curbs and leading stripes are taken away. The length of the section with the fall is about 10 m, but the pavement is cracked in an area of about 50 m in length about 1 m from its outer edge. The main reason for the deformation is the rewetting of the road flood of intense, significant amounts of rain in the past years, intense snow melting, as well as the dynamic load from passing motor vehicles. The Road Infrastructure Agency has taken immediate action for short-term measures to ensure road safety, and a barrier of sandbags is built in the affected area, balyses and safety tape have been placed. The corresponding vertical signal signs 8, B 26, passing from the left of the sign, the movement of motor vehicles above 12 tonnes is prohibited and the time limit is year-round. In the long term and for a comprehensive solution to the problem of sustainable road strengthening, the following actions have been taken: between the Road Infrastructure Agency and the Auto-maritropoli-EAD a contract was concluded on 23 October 2019 for the implementation of research and design works and construction by the engineers of the site Triple strengthening of the manifest distortions of the road road on the Republican road I-5, Gabrovo "Shipka." Upon completion of the research and design works, the preparation of the Technical Project on the basis of which reinforcement activities and preventive measures will be carried out on the Republican road, after its approval when the project is submitted, the complex report and the grant of a building permit, will proceed to the construction works for the permanent strengthening of the failure. Currently it is to be announced in the coming days and procedure, which is under the Public Procurement Act for construction supervision of the site. The value of the site is 7 million. 938 thousand. lv. with VAT, the funds are provided by the budget of the Agency Road Infrastructure....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The forecasts are that in the second half of 2020 real construction activities will also begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u211	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. Would you like a line, Mrs. Sidorova? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u212	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, thank you for your response and for the measures that have been taken. I sincerely hope that the rehabilitation of this precinct will begin as soon as possible, because, again, I say, it is vital, and let us, until this rehabilitation takes place, wish that there is no crash on the precinct. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u213	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sidorova. We move on to the last question by the MPs Dobrin Danev and Krum Zarkov regarding rehabilitation of road III-501. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u214	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the territory of Ruse region, the Republican road network is subject to intensive traffic, including heavy goods and international transports. We all know about the famous road Ruse "White" - which we have had the opportunity to talk about, which too often accidents occur, many of which end with victims. This topic must remain our attention, Madam Minister, and at the risk of being annoying I will continue to place it, as too many years of Russians expect this time to be improved. This isn't happening! And every time an auto accident occurs, the movement deviates on another road..................................................................................................... This is a road from the third-class Republican road network, passing through many settlements and municipalities, including Basarbovo, Ivanovo, Two mounds, Borovo, Byala. This creates very serious tensions in these settlements. On the one hand, people are afraid of being run over by fast trucks and nervous drivers, on the other hand, traffic is difficult, as the road is not suited for this kind of traffic. The population of these municipalities asked us to ask you, and this is what we are doing with my colleague Dobrin Danev: is there funds at the Agency for Road Infrastructure (Railway) for 2020 for rehabilitation on road III-501? If any, what is specifically intended to be done and when, to adapt this time, and of course, the main solution of the problem remains the major repair for the important road for the whole region Ruse
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u215	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u216	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Danev, Dear Mr. Zarkov! Republican Road III-501, Ruse On the part of the Road Infrastructure Agency, actions have been taken to carry out a comprehensive repair of the third-class road to ensure the safety of passengers. In connection with its implementation at the beginning of January this year, the Road Infrastructure Agency is entrusted to the road maintenance company the development of a technological project to carry out preventive repair of 22.2 km from the third-class road in the section from the town of Ruse to the branch for the village of Cherven. The activities provided for are: repair of road surface flooring, drainage, landscape shaping, repair of damaged or new road signs, permanent containment systems, laying down a new horizontal marking. Following the preparation and coordination of the technological project and the provision of financial resources, its implementation will be carried out, both the possibilities for the inclusion of the site in the programme for ongoing renovation and maintenance of the Agency will be considered, depending on the financial framework of the programme and through the state budget funding. The indicative value of the construction works will be specified once the project is ready. The repair, which will take place in the section from km 0 to km 22+200, is part of the staged repairs activities on the road to improve its operational state. We hope that in the coming years, through various mechanisms and sources of funding as well as with the revenues of the Tol system, funds can be provided to repair the third-class road throughout its length. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u217	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u218	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! The good thing about your answer, Madam Minister, is that this time is at your attention and it is being worked on. The bad thing is that there is no ready technology project, there is no available financial resources, we are waiting for the system that is slowing down, that is, it will take a long time. Even worse, in my opinion, I am sure that you are aware of it, is that improving the operational state.. even if it is done quickly will be only temporary, for the simple reason that this time it is used for things that should not be used for, namely because of the accidents on the other road. Accept my new question as a renewal of the call for joint action to address the major problems of the area's road network, which have actually acquired a chronic character. I use my remaining time to ask and recommend you, Madam Minister, to find time to go to Ruse District and present what makes the Ministry of these ill-fated problems before citizenship there, because tension is growing and let's be honest about this tension is justified.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u219	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Here you go, Mrs Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u220	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Zarkov, thank you for understanding and supporting that the roads in Bulgaria need to be in focus and that they need a serious resource for their rehabilitation. On my travels to Bulgaria, I have found that there are areas where road infrastructure is in better condition, including the area of which I am, need a more serious commitment of both the Agency and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. I hope for the successful start of the tol system, which you have repeatedly stated that you support.. as a fair way of charging the vehicles passing through the Republican road network motor vehicles over 3.5 tonnes, I hope for its successful introduction, as well as additional financial resources, because, believe me, we also want to make the roads in Bulgaria good. I believe that with joint efforts this will happen in the coming years and we will have such an opportunity to meet the demands of all people in Bulgaria to drive on safe roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-31.u221	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova, for your participation in today's parliamentary control. That's what we've run out of the program for today. The next regular meeting is from 9:00, 5 February 2020, Wednesday. We're adjourned.
