ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members. There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, I'd like to introduce you to a message. On 29 September 2020, a Draft Law amending the Law on the Administrative and Territorial Structure of the Republic of Bulgaria was adopted. The representatives of the People's Representative Julian Angelov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is the lead. Mrs. Angelova, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today we celebrate the International Old People's Day, our mothers and fathers, grandparents, a day on which we should thank them for their efforts and efforts to build not only... [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u3	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u4	...personalities from their children, but a better living environment for them. Dear mothers and fathers, dear pensioners! I use this case to express our respect and adoration to you, to your wisdom and unbearable spirit. All of us in this tribune realize that your life is not easy. Therefore, the political party GERB parliamentary group is making maximum efforts to initiate legislative changes that will improve your life. I want to assure you that our top priority is to raise your standard of living. That is why we are actively working to increase your income by ensuring greater adequacy of pensions, improving social security and developing quality services that will enable you to fully participate in public life. The development of a society is measured not only by economic development, but also by the level of empathy, mutual assistance and by the attitude towards the most vulnerable groups in it. We of the Political Party GERB have always placed among our most important priorities the life and health of Bulgarian pensioners. [[Noise.]] We have clearly shown our responsibility to them in the worst times of...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u5	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u6	...of a pandemic and a subsequent economic crisis. As a ruling party, we made a great effort and did not allow the insidious virus to spread widely into the social services for old people in the country. At the beginning of the emergency, protective materials and disinfectants were provided to over 7,000 lonely elderly people in their inability to serve themselves. We did not interrupt the payment of social payments for a moment by providing green corridors for the receipt of pensions in postal branches and opportunities to be carried around the houses. We have ensured that they are served as a priority in supermarkets and pharmacies at certain times. Much of the elderly benefit from support with free warm lunch, social patronage and other social services. Some of these activities continue to take place until the end of the year. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u7	Mrs. Angelova, please wait! Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall. It's very noisy.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u8	A total of 15 161 Bulgarians over 65 years of age and people with disabilities use patronage care, that is, they receive food in their home or health-social services, other than 26 thousand people, mostly pensioners, also receive food under the program. Despite the difficult economic situation in which the world is located and, respectively, our country, we kept our promise and increased pensions by 6.7% as of 1 July 2020. The minimum pension has become 250 BGN and the average has exceeded 415 BGN. In October, for the third consecutive month, all of them will receive an add-on of BGN 50. to your pensions. This support will probably continue. And it's not populism, it's attitude and care at a difficult time for all of us. Such attitude and care in other parties would be only in words, but not in us. Everything is dressed in action. [[(Replyes from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS: Bravo! Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]] We are about to discuss the budgetary framework and the financial commitments of the state for next year in this House. [[(DPS lines: Bravo! Bravo! Big deal!]] We must strive to offer a maximum solidarity and fair model for updating pensions so as to raise the incomes of Bulgarian pensioners. In addition, we must continue to motivate and involve people over the age of 50 in the labour market, draw from their experience and exploit their potential. Because they can contribute to the development of both younger footage and professionalism. Age is not an obstacle, but rather a guarantee of professionalism and employers know that well. Recent data suggests that nearly 70% of companies would employ someone with experience. This is the result of the policies that we have undertaken to improve the quality of life of the elderly. We have also taken actions to prevent elderly people from dropping out of the right to heating aid because they receive a higher pension. The total amount of aid for the five months of the current heating season increased to BGN 495,80. During the last heating season, nearly 200,000 individuals and families received access to energy support. A significant part of them are pensioners with low incomes and lonely living Bulgarians. Along with the increase in incomes, our efforts are aimed at developing quality and effective social services in the community and in a home environment that play a key role in supporting older people and promoting their social inclusion. Currently working over 700 social services that can be used by elderly people. These services are financed by State budget funds. An important element of support for elderly and disabled people is social services in a home environment such as personal assistant, social assistant, who provide the necessary care according to the individual needs of those in need. Dear Members of Parliament, the preservation of the life and health of the elderly in ensuring a higher quality of life require consensus, dialogue and will, and not denial of what has been done. Therefore, on this day, on which we express once again our gratitude and commitment, we call for responsibility and declare that we will stand against anyone who would compromise with the dignity of our mothers and fathers. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u9	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Declaration on behalf of the group Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u10	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Today is October 1st - Day for poetry, music, and respect for adults! On 14 December 1990, the United Nations General Assembly, by its resolution, designated October 1 for International Day of Elderly People and thus for 30 years this day has been celebrated as International Day of Elderly People and around the world the due respect for longevity and life wisdom has been shown. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u11	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u12	On this day we pay our respects to the people of the third age and their contribution to society. On this day, we should all rejoice and celebrate with them. But is there cause for joy? Announcing the Day for the Elderly almost coincides with the political changes in our country, which started in 1989, and we must realise that for this, not a little time on the matter of the situation of the elderly in the Bulgarian society nothing significant has been done on the part of the government. It seems that the overall policy regarding these people is reduced to the protocol marking of the Day of the Elderly people and statistics on their serious and disadvantaged situation in Bulgarian society. We have, of course, a National Strategy for Long-term Care, developed in accordance with the recommendations of the Council of Europe and with the good practices of the Member States of the European Union, but which strangely does not have a deadline for realization. We also have an Action Plan to implement this national strategy for long-term care. We also have a decent number and kind of paperwork, but we have no results to make old people's lives better, more worthy and less difficult. In Bulgaria, by the end of 2019, the number of people over 60 years of age was 1,978,904. It is no secret to anyone that most of them live in poverty, even in extreme poverty. The number of personal pensions in Bulgaria is just over 2 million and the average pension is 383,03 BGN. The minimum pension for internship and age is 219.43 BGN, the social pension for old age is 132.74 BGN. Women receive an average of 110 BGN. Lower pension than men. The minimum pension is 752 960 pensioners, or this is 35.3% "more than 1/3 of the total number of pensioners in Bulgaria. All this is against the backdrop of a government-defined poverty threshold for 2019. BGN 348, which is hardly enough for you to have a normal life. And things are also complicated by the fast and restless time we live in, by the political instability that has taken over our country, by the conditions of the new severe health and economic crisis caused by the global epidemic of the coronavirus, which seriously threatens even the minimum social benefits of the people of the third age. And the measures for caring and helping these most vulnerable people who take the government are the charity of 50 BGN. monthly. Needless to say, the lowest pensions in the European Union are in Bulgaria, that the minimum pension does not guarantee physical survival, which is terrifying, but it is a fact and clearly shows the need to change the old and find new legislative initiatives for this group of the population. On this day, we turn to the ruling majority: the current measures are not sufficient and do not lead to the desired increase in the quality of the lives of the elderly. Social services for elderly people, as they are doing today, do not contribute to their removal from the group of the most vulnerable of our society, and the responsibility for this is yours. The generally recognised European values of human dignity, equality and respect for human rights must guide and unite us in the efforts to develop care and support for the elderly, adequate for the 21st century. This requires active action and ambitious goals to promote integration and improve living conditions for the elderly, poor and excluded from society. And we give you a hand together to make it possible to build a better life for the Bulgarian pensioner. On the eve of this day, let's unite under the understanding that Bulgarian pensioners are our fathers and mothers, grandparents and grandparents deserve to live better, listen to our proposals and declare our determination to work to increase trust in the social system by finally completing the reform of the pension system, which will increase revenues in the budget of the state social security to adequately increase the amount of pensions. First steps in this direction may be: recalculation of all pensions granted by 31 December 2015. The last claim is 2008; removing the maximum monthly amount of social and health insurance income and the maximum amount of pension; increasing the burden of the contribution of the internship to the formula for determining the pension rate for each year of insurance service to be at least 1.33, as the standard of the International Labour Organisation, and then continuing its smooth increase to 1,5; extending the existing flexible elements to encourage longer stay on the labour market; each year of service after the acquisition of a pension to carry a higher percentage; changing its approach to annual update of pensions so as not to impose a new adjustment; all payments that are not related to an insurance contribution to be taken out of state social security and borne from the state budget; adopting a law for older people to regulate the state's care for them. These are our proposals. They are not new, but once again we put them on the fore, because we must immediately take measures, our mothers and fathers, who have enthusiastically built our homeland, deserved it, and we in Bulgaria today do not provide them enough, oriented towards their individual needs, services and proper support for full inclusion, we do not provide them with an opportunity for a decent life. This seriously limits the ability and willingness of these people to participate fully in the lives of their communities and society as a whole. Such is the dark statistics and the need for immediate action that we cannot save even at today's holiday. Dear MPs, old age is not a vice, but a natural part of life. We can jointly make sure that every Bulgarian can live it well as a well-deserved and expected holiday. The parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria is also addressing you, dear people, dear Bulgarian pensioners, you may be materially poor, but spiritually you are very rich with the decent work path, with what you have built and left to us your heirs. We also turn to the younger generation, let us bow our heads on this day and ask ourselves whether we are their worthy heirs, whether we are able to give the deserved gratitude and understanding that our generation owes them for their contribution to the construction and economic growth of our country. Everyone in this room and outside it with our heart to wish the elderly longevity and strength to go through the last crisis that has struck our people and to overcome all the difficulties together, let us humbly ask their forgiveness for everything we have done and have not done for them in order to live better. Forgive me, dear people, and courage, my friends! From the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, we see you as people who, despite their difficulties, continue to actively participate not only in public life, but also in economic and thank you for your dedication and contribution to the development of our country, the Republic of Bulgaria. You are the people who managed to preserve our centuries-old Bulgarian traditions in order to pass them on to the next generations, you are the people who taught us not to surrender, to survive the difficult and to rejoice in the happy moments, you are the people for whom Bulgaria continues to have it. On the eve of this day, when everyone in the world honors the people of the third age, we offer our respect and holy affection to you. We are not indifferent, you have our appreciation, love and commitment. We bow our head before you, who created us, raised us with love and made us worthy people at the cost of deprivation, to give us a good start in life today as an old Bulgarian tradition, unreservedly and wholeheartedly raise and raise our children. Be an example to us and help with the experience, with the wisdom of life that you possess.... who with everything we can to go forward and upward. With gratitude and tears in your eyes happy to celebrate your holiday, revered adult Bulgarians! Happy birthday, friends, be safe and sound! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. We continue with the first item of today's agenda: PROJECTS OF DECISIONS FOR CHANGES IN STANDING COMMITMENTS. Importer (s) Cornellia Ninova and group of MPs on 29 September and 30 September 2020. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on Foreign Policy The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 23, para. 3, p. 2 and para. 4 in connection with art. 15, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Releases Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov as a member of the Foreign Policy Committee. They voted 93 MPs: 75, against 4, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Defence Committee The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 23, para. 3, p. 2 and para. 4 in connection with art. 15, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He released Georgi Dimitrov Andreev as a member of the Defence Committee. Vote 84 MPs: 80 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 23, para. 3, p. 2 and para. 4 in connection with art. 15, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Releases Dimitar Stoyanov and Krasimir Hristov Jankov as members of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. Vote 82 MPs: 74, no objection, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION amending the composition of the Committee on Legal Affairs The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 23, para. 3, p. 2 and para. 4 in connection with art. 15, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Releases Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov as a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Vote 80 MPs: 79, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION amending the composition of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 23, para. 3, p. 2 and para. 4 in connection with art. 15, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Releases Lalo Georgiev Kirilov as a member of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Vote 80 MPs: 74, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 23, para. 3, p. 2 and para. 4 in connection with art. 15, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Releases Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov as a member of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Vote 76 MPs: for 73, against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 23, para. 3, p. 2 and para. 4 in connection with art. 15, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Releases Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov as a member of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee. Vote 76 MPs: for 75, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Energy Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 23, para. 3, p. 2 and para. 4 in connection with art. 15, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Releases Alexander Dimitrov Pawnov as a member of the Energy Commission. Please, voting mode. Vote 78 MPs: 76 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION amending the composition of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 23, para. 3, p. 2 and para. 4 in connection with art. 15, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Releases Alexander Dimitrov Pawnov as a member of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Please, voting mode. Vote 78 MPs: 75 against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on Policies for the Bulgarians abroad The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 23, para. 3, p. 2 and para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Releases Christian Ivanov Vigenin as a member of the Bulgarian Policy Committee abroad. Please, voting mode. They voted 71 MPs: for 69, against 2, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Defence Committee The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev as a member of the Defence Committee. Please, voting mode. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Energy Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Martin Stefanov Obreshkov as a member of the Energy Commission. Please, voting mode. Vote 84 MPs: for 83, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Polina Alexandrova Shishkova as a member of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee. Please, voting mode. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3, Art. 3. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He released Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev as a member of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. He elected Evdokia Slavchova Asenova as a member of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. He elected Teodora Atanasova Halacheva as a member of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Please, voting mode. They voted 83 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski as a member of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. He elected Rosen Malinov Malinov as a member of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Please, voting mode. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Nikolay Dimitrov Penev as a member of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. He elected Daniel Petkov Yordanov as a member of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. Please, voting mode. They voted 86 MPs: 84, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition and management of the Committee on Foreign Policy The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Stefan Ivanov Burgeev as Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Policy. He elected Desislav Petrov Taskov as a member of the Foreign Policy Committee. Please, voting mode. Vote 79 MPs: 76 against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on completing the composition of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Anastas Marinov Popdimitrov as a member of the Bulgarian Policy Committee abroad. Please, voting mode. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE COUNTERPARTY LAWS FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CODE OF THE TRUDA. They are: Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 3 June 2020; Julian Angelov and a group of MPs on 30 July 2020; the Council of Ministers on 3 August 2020. First we will hear the report of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Here you are, Mr. Ademov, to introduce us to the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Before the reports, I shall make a procedural proposal on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to allow Lazar Lazarov to be admitted to the Chamber to the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, and Kalina Petkova Director of the Department of Labour Law, Social Security and Conditions of Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u15	Please vote on the procedure so made. They voted 126 MPs: 120, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Invite the guests to the hall. Mr. Ademov, come and introduce us to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u16	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 002-01-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 August 2020. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at a regular meeting held on 9 September 2020 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by Lazar Lazarov Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy and experts from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Lazar Lazarov. At the beginning of the presentation he stressed that the draft amendment and supplement to the Labour Code is the result of almost two years of work between the social partners and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. It contains changes in several directions. On the one hand, the main part and the main directions for its amendment are the commitments arising from the membership of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union and the requirement to transpose the requirements of the Posting Directive within the framework of the provision of services. Several provisions contain amendments relating to the Directive. The other direction in which amendments are proposed is linked to social dialogue and collective bargaining. Proposals have been made to improve the niche of social dialogue and active state support in the case of the promotion of bilateral dialogue between social partners. A series of amendments have been made that provide a better degree of protection for workers and employees who are not members of trade unions who are parties to the collective agreement. In this regard, there are a series of amendments governing the conclusion of collective agreements, their extension and their entry. The bill makes amendments relating to the rights and responsibilities of employees and employers, as well as those preventing the circumvention of labour laws and overtime requirements through the conclusion of an employment contract during certain days of the month with workers and employees belonging to the same employer. The inclusion of tobacco producers in the scope of day-to-day contracts is proposed. There are amendments relating to the use of annual paid leave in cases where persons first enter into employment and also amendments relating to the use of rights under early retirement pension schemes. An essential part of the amendments relates to the organisation of the production process and the corresponding working time, with the emphasis on the aggregated calculation of working time and overtime. The bill provides for opportunities that correspond accordingly to the basic legislative document in the European Union in this area, namely the Working Time Organisation Directive. It provides opportunities to negotiate other, different periods with regard to the period for the introduction of the aggregated calculation of working hours and the application of overtime through the tools and mechanisms with branch and industry collective agreements. Several amendments are related to control activities and administrative sanctions for violation of labour law. The reason for the bill is that the proposed amendments and additions to the Labour Code aim at improving the adequacy of labour legislation in terms of trends in the labour market, the level of industrial relations, socio-economic conditions in the country and international acts and standards. In this regard, the Bill proposes improving the legal framework with regard to: 1. Social dialogue and collective bargaining, including with regard to the reporting of working hours and the limitation of overtime in different sectors and sectors. 2. Labour relations with an international element, including posting. 3. Guarantee to a greater extent the rights and obligations of the parties to the employment relationship according to the current economic conditions and the development of the labour market in certain hypotheses. 4. Legal and technical discrepancies in separate provisions. 5. The control and surveillance activities regarding compliance with labour law. The expected results of the adoption of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code are: - ensuring greater adequacy of the regulations of labour relations according to the current economic conditions and the level of industrial relations in the country; - strengthening mutual trust and cooperation between social partners, promoting collective bargaining and raising the awareness of employees about their rights and obligations. In this regard, it is expected to limit labour disputes and improve working conditions in enterprises in different sectors and sectors, on the one hand, and, on the other, to increase labour productivity; - the establishment in national law of the requirements of Directive (EU) 2018/957, which aims to ensure the uniform level of remuneration for the same work carried out in the territory of the same country, including all the mandatory elements forming it, in accordance with the national law and/or practice of the Member State in whose territory the worker is posted; - better regulation of issues related to: labour contracts for certain days of the month; recruitment of workers in tobacco production; use of paid annual leave by new workers and employees; provision of free food to workers working at night; work contracts for training and internship; termination of teachers' employment contracts; - more effective implementation of control activities and better prevention in relation to the envisaged administrative penalties for breach of labour law; - increasing the collection of fines and property penalties for violations of labour law and reducing the costs of their administration; - improving the functioning of the labour market and the general protection of workers, including through better prevention against repeated and systematic infringements related to undeclared work. A preliminary assessment of the impact of the Bill has been applied to the Bill. It states that the regulatory change is in line with the strategic framework for the development of legislation in the field of employment and is in line with the strategic objectives and priorities of the programme of the government of the Republic of Bulgaria. In addition, a reference to the compliance of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of the Council of Europe and with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights under art. 28, para. 3 of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the The opinion of the Ministry of Justice through the Directorate-General of the Republic of Bulgaria before the European Court of Human Rights is that the proposed bill does not create any legal prerequisites for conflicting with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the Practice of the European Court of Human Rights. The Commission received the opinions of the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria, the Union for Economic Initiative, the Chamber of Road Carriers in Bulgaria, the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria. They all support, in principle, the bill tabled to amend the Labour Code, but they have and offer very specific remarks, as well as proposals for change. Protocol No 15 of the extraordinary meeting of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation of 14 July 2020 was received in the Commission. The decision of this meeting is that the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation has not achieved unanimous support under the Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code. The social partners support the proposed amendments and additions for the most part, but the main points of controversy between trade unions and employers' organisations are: - the proposed mechanism for the aggregated calculation of working hours; - the increase of eligible overtime to 300 hours per year; - the possibility to extend the application of a collective contract or its separate clauses to all undertakings in the sector or industry concerned. The discussion was attended by the MPs Kalin Popovski, Svetlana Angelova, Violeta Jeleva, Hasan Ademov and Nadia Klisurska. Dr. Kalin Popovski said the bill is wide, comprehensive and regulates the rights of the worker, including tobacco producers. It is good that there is synchronization with international clauses and operating directives. Ms. Svetlana Angelova stressed that the bill contains proposals that result from the work of a working group that has worked for almost two years. All social partners have participated in this working group. The aim of the bill is to improve the adequacy of labour legislation regarding trends in the labour market and new forms of employment, socio-economic conditions in the country and international acts and standards. A significant part of the proposals for amendments made with the Bill are supported by most social partners. It is clear from the expressed position of the social partners that there are three key topics that are subject to discussion. These are: the aggregated calculation of working hours; the overtime and the distribution of the collective employment contract. These three key topics are discussional and do not find complete unanimity by the social partners. There must be development on these topics, seeking consensus and balance. She expressed the position that she is ready to refine certain provisions between the first and second reading of the Bill. Mrs. Violeta Jeleva said that she saw this bill as opening a discussion about finding a more modern regulation in our country's labour relations. This is especially necessary now in the context of the changing economic situation and in the light of the pandemic that the entire society, including employers and workers, is suffering and affecting their fundamental rights. Mrs. Jeleva emphasized on the unprincipled increase in the totality of working hours and overtime. According to her, these measures will reduce the productivity and quality of the workforce. She asked questions concerning the lack of regulation of the minimum wage, the actual increase in night work and work from a distance. Ms. Jeleva believes that cosmetic changes are proposed, which are generally not working and are not needed by society. In his speech Dr. Hassan Ademov emphasized on the dialogue environment in which the changes were created, namely the presence of a working group, signed a National Tripartite Agreement with 54 measures adopted and a signature for calculating the total working hours with 100 000 signatures. Ms. Nadia Klisurska said the consensus on the drafting of the bill did not take place. There are important texts on which there is no understanding between employers and trade unions. There are texts that are contradictory. For example, this is the text of § 14 on the aggregated calculation of working hours, which contradicts Directive 2003/87. In addition, there are contradictions as to when, in the aggregated calculation of working hours, overtime will be considered. Very often, the aggregated calculation of working hours is used to cover overtime. There are problems that are related to the payment of overtime situations, in line with the introduced payment system in a summated calculation of working hours. A problem is the conversion of night hours into daily hours according to the provision of the Regulation on the structure and organisation of the salary. In general, the Bill proposes controversial texts that do not improve the condition of workers, and employers are not facilitated in making management decisions. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 10 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Asks the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 002-01-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 August 2020 ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Draft Law on Supplement to the Labour Code, No 054-01-82, submitted by Julian Krastev Angelov and a group of MPs on 30 July 2020. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 9 September 2020 discussed and discussed the Draft Supplement to the Labour Code. The bill was presented by the MP Maria Tsvetkova. The proposal to supplement the Labour Code provides in art. 154, para. 1, after the words of May 24 the Day of the Bulgarian Education and Culture and of the Slavic Literature are placed: August 15 The success of the Holy Mother of God. In Christian tradition, the Assumption Day of the Holy Mother of God is one of the greatest holidays, as is Easter and Christmas. It is also embedded in the traditional calendar of the Bulgarians who mark it with the corresponding holiday rituals. This is the day that God's mother at the age of 64 left Earth life and went to her son. Today on this day Christians express worship to the mother of the Son of God in all parts of Bulgaria. According to folk tradition the holiday is called the Great Mother of God, it puts an end to the previous fasting, is not working, is made curbans, and the sick spend the night at the Holy Places of Health. The Virgin Mary is revered as the protector of motherhood and of women, as the protector of the family hearth. Announcing on 15 August as a public holiday in our national calendar would not lead to difficulties in the work process, as this is the month in which much of the paid annual leave is enjoyed and the capacity of work is reduced. Its inclusion in the official holidays will enable all people to celebrate the holiday accordingly. The Commission received opinions from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria. The opinion of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy does not support the bill. The main arguments that justify not accepting the offer of importers are related to both the possibility of a debate on the importance of other Christian holidays with a multiannual tradition and public significance and their declaration of formal and the effect of the change on the labour rights and obligations of both employees and employers. There is an opportunity for difficulties with the organisation of the work process, overtime, pay of wages and any changes resulting from the change in the total number of working and non-working days, weekends and official holidays within the relevant calendar year. The Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria does not take a strong view on the proposal. By their opinion, they express particular opinions under art. 154 of the Labour Code, which, according to them, does not have the elements of a legal norm and should therefore not be laid down in the Labour Code. As far as the particular change proposed is concerned, it does not regulate employment relations within the meaning of art. 1 of the Labour Code, and a question which is religiously founded, referring to art. 13 of the Constitution. A preliminary assessment of the impact of the bill has been applied to the Bill. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 2 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposes to the National Assembly not to support the first vote Draft for Supplement to the Labour Code, No 054-01-82, submitted by Julian Krastev Angelov and a group of MPs on 30 July 2020. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Draft Law amending the Labour Code, No 054-01-49, submitted by Iskren Vasilev Veselinov and a group of MPs on 3 June 2020. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 9 September 2020 discussed and discussed a bill amending the Labour Code. The bill was presented by the MP Milen Mihov. The proposal for a change to the Labour Code provides in art. 154, para 1, the words.. 24 May.. Day of Bulgarian Education and Culture and of Slavic Writing................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. According to importers, the correct and historically valid definition of the holiday celebrated on 24 May is: Day of Bulgarian writing, education and culture. In support of their legislative initiative, they highlight several fundamental facts from a historical, cultural and public point of view. First of all, the holiday 24 May is understood and celebrated by the Bulgarian society as a day of Bulgarian writing. The holiday has always been a manifestation of the Bulgarian national emancipation and as the main benefit of the change in its name can be taken into account the historical truth in its discharge. Our writing, education and culture are built on the Cyrillic, which according to the world's historical science was created in the Bulgarian state by the students of Cyril and Methodius and from here is spread throughout the world to this day. The current wording minimizes the unmistakable contribution of the Bulgarian medieval culture and makes it part of Slavic ideas and writing. Next in their motives, the importers also point to the uniqueness of the Bulgarian alphabet, because it is distinguished both in letter form and graphically written by other Cyrillic writings "Russian, Ukrainian, Serbian and so on." In conclusion, the proposed wording of the spelling of the holiday highlights the cultural and national contribution of the Bulgarians and meets the 200-year historical tradition in its celebration. The Commission received opinions from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Institute for Bulgarian Language "Professor Lyubomir Andrejchin" at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, the General Assembly of the Kirilo-Metodiev Science Center at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the Institute for State and Law at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy takes an opinion within its competence, according to which the proposed amendment to the Labour Code does not provide for a change in the number of official holidays. For this reason, the legislative initiative will not require a change in employment relations between workers and employees, while also the balance between weekends and working days within the calendar year will remain unaffected. In their opinions the Institute for Bulgarian Language at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the General Assembly of Kirilo-Metodiev Science Center at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences state the comprehensive arguments that gave reason not to support the bill. The opinions express the concerns of these institutions about the proposed change in the name of the holiday 24 May. In their words, it is necessary to carefully assess all the consequences resulting from the proposed proposal, taking into account all relevant historical facts. Their main motives are that the motivation for changing the name of the holiday is not sustained from a historical or modern point of view. The removal of the expression "Slavian writing" will result in the loss of the Slavonic significance of the case of the brothers Cyril and Methodius and the role of the Bulgarian state in this regard. The Institute for State and Law of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is concerned with the labour law side of the initiative, taking into account that the change requested is not related to expenditure from public or private funds and would not have an impact on labour or other public relations. The discussion was attended by the MPs Milko Nedyalkov and Alexander Siddy. Milko Nedyalkov said he would refrain from support, although he welcomed to some extent the proposed change, stressing the need to hold a broad discussion. In response Alexander Siddy urged the Bill to be supported by a first vote and pointed out that on this national issue there is no need for a discussion outside the National Assembly. At the end of the discussion and the vote held by 2 votes for the vote, without the opposition and 14 votes, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy adopted the following opinion: He proposes to the National Assembly not to support the First Voting Draft for amendment of the Labour Code, No 054-01-49, submitted by Iskren Vasilev Veselinov and a group of MPs on 3 June 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. The report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is available, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u18	♪ I can't believe under the Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 002-01-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers to 3 August 2020 The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting, held on 24 September 2020, examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 002-01-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy: Lazar Lazarov (Deputy Minister) and Kalina Petkova (Director of the Directorate). The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Lazarov. According to the importer, the objectives of the proposed bill are: improving the mechanisms of social dialogue; promoting collective bargaining, including at sectoral or sectoral level; guaranteeing the rights of employees and employers in employment relationships with an international element and posting; guaranteeing the rights of employees and employers when an aggregated calculation of working time is established when paid annual leave is used and when overtime is applied; ensuring a uniform and fair approach in imposing administrative penalties for violations of labour law according to the severity of the infringements committed and easing the recovery procedure imposed. The bill introduces the requirements of Directive (EU) 2018/957 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the secondment of workers in the framework of the provision of services. New provisions are proposed in the Law on the Civil Service. According to the importer, the bill will have no direct or indirect impact on the state budget and no increase is envisaged for employers. The bill shall be subject to a preliminary partial impact assessment as well as those required under art. 76 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry supports in principle the initiative to change some of the outdated and insufficiently adaptable norms in the Labour Code in order to update labour law relations with the development of the labour market. At the same time, some of the proposals are unacceptable and should be corrected. The Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria takes into account the proposed amendments and additions and generally supports them. The Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria supports the Bill in its entirety. At the same time, it does not accept or find the proposals justified and justified in paragraphs 8, 13, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 23, 27 and 28. The Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria will continue to defend its opinion on the changes related to overtime and the aggregated calculation of working hours. The Confederation of Labour "Support" expresses in principle its approval of most of the proposals and additions to the bill. A sharp protest is expressed and the idea, albeit within the framework of collective bargaining, is not categorically accepted to allow an increase of eligible overtime to 300 hours per year. KT "Support" continues to have a firm and consistent negative position on day-to-day contracts and the proposed extension of the parties to the contracts. The Bulgarian Branch Chamber of Machinery does not support the texts in the Draft Law, which gives the Minister of Labour and Social Policy the right to extend the operation of a staff/branch collective employment contract only after they have given their consent to all national representative employers' organizations. The questions asked by the MPs Petar Kanev and Zhelyo Boychev answered Deputy Minister Lazarov. After the end of the discussion and a vote with results 11 votes........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Asks the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 002-01-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 August 2020
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. Mrs. Angelkova, the second report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u20	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe under the Act for Supplement to the Labour Code, No 054-01-82, submitted by Julian Angelov and a group of MPs of 30 July 2020 The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting, held on 24 September 2020, examined and discussed the Draft Law for Supplement to the Labour Code, No 054-01-82, submitted by Julian Angelov and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy Deputy Minister Lazar Lazarov and Kalina Petkova Director of the Directorate. According to the importer, the purpose of the proposed bill is the inclusion on 15 August, the Day of Assumption of the Holy Mother of God, in the official holidays of our national calendar. It is assumed that in this way all people will be given the opportunity for the proper celebration of the holiday. In its written opinion, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy does not support the bill, because the work on the days of the official holidays is related to certain legal consequences, including the right to an increased amount of remuneration. The Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria believes that the proposed supplement governs a matter which is religiously founded and does not regulate labour relations. The Confederation of Labour "Support" supports the Bill. The Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria does not support the Bill and believes that the Republic of Bulgaria is a country with a sufficient number of public holidays, respecting the brightest holidays of all confessions. The Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry refrains from supporting the bill and believes that currently the priority is the preservation of employment, the preservation of remuneration, and the desire to increase the competitiveness of Bulgarian companies. After a 18-vote vote, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted the following opinion: Asks the National Assembly not to adopt a bill supplementing the Labour Code, No 054-01-82, submitted by Julian Angelov and a group of MPs on July 30, 2020
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u21	Thank you. The next report is from the Committee on Religions and Human Rights.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe on a bill supplementing the Labour Code, No 054-01-82, submitted by Julian Krastev Angelov and a group of MPs on 30 July 2020. At a regular meeting held on 17 September 2020, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights discussed a Draft for Supplement to the Labour Code, No 054-01-82, submitted by Julian Krastev Angelov and a group of MPs on 30 July 2020. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Larissa Todorova, Head of the Department of Labour Law, Social Security and Working Conditions of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The bill was presented by the MP Maria Tsvetkova. The bill proposes the determination of August 15th. The success of the Holy Mother of God for an official holiday in our national calendar. The reasons for the proposed change are related to the social significance of the Assumption Day of the Holy Mother of God as one of the great Christian holidays, as well as Easter and Christmas. It is embedded in the traditional calendar of the Bulgarians who celebrate it with the corresponding holiday rituals. Great Mother of God is revered as the protector of motherhood and of women and as the protector and protector of the family hearth. According to importers, the announcement of a public holiday on 15 August would not lead to difficulties in the labour process, as this is the month in which much of the paid annual leave is enjoyed and the capacity to work is reduced. Its inclusion in the official holidays will enable all people to celebrate the holiday accordingly. The Committee on Religions and Human Rights received opinions from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and from the Ministry of Finance, which do not support the Bill. The proposed change will affect the labour rights and obligations of both employees and employers. There is an opportunity for difficulties with the organisation of the work process, overtime, pay of wages. The adoption of the Bill could lead to an increase in public sector staff funds and poses a risk of pressure both on the state budget and on the various economic entities, given the socio-economic consequences associated with the spread of COVID-19 in the country's territory. The following discussion was attended by the MPs Krasimir Velchev and Plamen Tachev. They stressed that August 15 is undoubtedly one of the biggest Christian church holidays, but it should be noted that the increase in the number of public holidays has a negative impact on small and medium-sized businesses. They agreed that the holiday should be included in the national calendar only if another official holiday is cancelled and there is a full consensus on it. After the debates held, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights with 1 vote for..........................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u23	Thank you, my dear Mrs. Alexieva. The next report is the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. You have the floor, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u24	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 002-01-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 August 2020. At its regular meeting on 30 September 2020, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code. The bill was presented by Mr. Lazar Lazarov, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy. The bill to amend and supplement the Labour Code aims to ensure greater adequacy of the regulations of labour relations according to the current economic conditions and the level of industrial relations in the country. Importers propose strengthening mutual trust and cooperation between social partners, promoting collective bargaining and raising the awareness of workers about their rights and obligations. By means of this proposed bill, the requirements of Directive (EU) 2018/957 should be introduced in national law, which aims to ensure the same level of remuneration for the same work carried out in the territory of the same country, including all mandatory elements forming it under the national law and/or practice of the Member State in whose territory the worker is posted. In addition to the above, better regulation of matters relating to: labour contracts for certain days of the month; the employment of workers in tobacco production; the use of paid annual leave by new workers and employees; the provision of free food to workers working at night; the work contracts for training and internship; the termination of teachers' employment contracts and a number of other changes relating to improving the functioning of the labour market and the general protection of workers, including through better prevention against the carrying out of repeated and systematic infringements related to undeclared work. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds proposed by 6 votes for the Council of Ministers and 1 vote abstention of the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 002-01-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 August 2020. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Opinion of the importer Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u26	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Our proposal for 24 May is not a matter of labour relations, although it concerns the Labour Code. It is not so much a question of cultural self-assessment, it is a much more significant issue, although it is purely editorial about changing a word and rearranging the wordings. Why is this amendment so important? In today's world, we are witnessing that not only the power of armies, of economic power, of financial power, of economic opportunities determine the place of countries in the world. There is another very significant and very important power.. this is the power of control over spiritual, material and intangible values. Today we are witnessing that the power of the spirit can be a much more powerful weapon than rockets and nuclear weapons. A great Russian scientist over three decades ago defined the Bulgarian medieval state as the state of the spirit. And this definition is very significant because it defines the influence of Bulgaria through the power of the spirit to this day, with a millennial change. The basis of this state of the spirit is the Bulgarian writing. In this sense, I would say what are our arguments for the proposal. Historical science has long revealed that the genius discovery of the brothers Cyril and Methodius, creating the alphabet of the Slavs, the largest ethnic array in the European part of the Eastern Roman Empire, called Byzantium, was used in the foreign policy of Emperor Michael II to unfold the cultural and political influence of the empire in the Western Balkans. That is why the Morav mission of the two brothers was created, which ends with failure. In 885 the pope issued a bull to ban the activities of the disciples of the brothers in Veliko Moravia. They were expelled, some of them sold into slavery in the Apennine markets. And if five of them had not reached the Bulgarian land, then all this would have remained a curious moment in medieval history and today would have been a question of raising the assessment in the European universities of the exam on medieval history. However, on that day on 886 these last surviving students of the brothers reached the Bulgarian land and were accepted by the Boritricane of the Bulgarian fortress in Belgrade. Yes, it is the same Belgrade that today is the capital of, I hope, friendly Serbia. Henceforth the Bulgarian story of the writings of the brothers Cyril and Methodius begins. The Cyrillic, created in Bulgaria and replaced the Glagolitsa, created by Constantine-Cyril Philosopher and Methodius, is part of the fundamental reformist movement carried out by Boris, Simeon the Great and Tsar Peter. It is in the Bulgarian spiritual capitals Pliska, Preslav and Ohrid. And that's the whole historical truth about events. That's where this writing goes to the world. For the holiday itself. For 200 years the celebration of the brothers Cyril and Methodius has been celebrated by all Bulgarians for the first time in 1813 in Shumen, then in Plovdiv, to the day where Bulgarians live in Bitola and Ohrid, in Bolgrad, in Vlasko and Transylvania, and today from Toronto, New York and Chicago to Tokyo and New Zealand. This holiday has been constantly celebrated by the Bulgarians for more than 200 years. The festival in Russia was first legitimized in 1863 by the Universe Synod. However, during the period of the Soviet government, everyone here may remember their friends from Brother Russia who convinced us that the alphabet was written by Lenin and some more enlightened claimed that it was written by Peter the Great in his great reformist action. In the modern Russian Federation this holiday was introduced in 1991 in Serbia where the brothers first set foot, the holiday was seen as Bulgarian. In 1913 he was born in the United States of America. On the eve of the Balkan Wars, the new rulers of Vardar Macedonia banned this holiday as Bulgarian. Yet in Skopje, Bitola and Veles all Bulgarian municipalities with solemn services and school celebrations mark it. It is banned in a kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians. In Tito Yugoslavia is replaced by Tito's birthday and is declared a celebration of Yugoslav youth. This holiday is Bulgarian and this proves all those celebrations and all those debates that are held whenever our national holiday comes. There are many public forces who say that not 3 March, but 24 May should be our national holiday. Our proposal, dear colleagues, is neither -phile nor -phobic, it is not directed against anyone, it is not pro-someone, it is not against Russia, it is not in the pleasure of Brussels or Washington, it is our, Bulgarian proposal. It has been mentioned here that a broad debate must be held. I think the debate is over, and I'll argue with a quad. I'll read it slowly and carefully: It was time, our writing when he walks through all peace; for all the world's enlightenment It was an inexhaustible pool. This quad, dear colleagues, was written in 1892 by Stoyan Mihajlovski and is part of the full text of the anthem. I think we couldn't give a bigger argument than these verses to Stoyan Mihajlovski, who say: "The writing of our, Bulgarian, travels the whole world." I appeal to you, vote and support this proposal. With this small amendment we have a chance to take one step up, to climb a step higher to our ancestors, to those who were called builders of modern Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u27	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Mr. Angelov's opinion of an importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u28	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will present to you the reasons for our proposal to the colleagues of IMRO, who have signed and proposed the Day of Assumption of the Holy Mother of God 15 August, to be an official holiday of Bulgaria, i.e. a non-working day. After many talks with religious people in Bulgaria, with priests over the years, including in the previous parliament, have insisted that one of the biggest Christian holidays should be honored, like the rest of the Easter and Christmas, because it is one of the three greatest Christian holidays. We, as a country where 85% of the population and more is Christian or adheres to Christian traditions, are obliged to do so that we truly honor the greatest Christian holidays, as they have honored them in other countries. You all know that on that day the mother of God died, the mother of the Son of God, and the whole Christian world honors her. In Christian tradition, this is also a non-working day and is not working. As Christians, we should observe at least Christian traditions and make sure that all three of the greatest religious Christian festivals that exist are equally honored. I will also say the following August 15th falls in the holiday season. There are many people who are on leave, that is, this day will in no way prevent it from stopping the work process in Bulgaria. You know that the most common Bulgarian name is Maria and on this day a huge number of women in Bulgaria celebrate their name day. A celebration that affects many people, and most importantly it is part of our tradition. We have heard different opinions, different views on this issue that Bulgaria was the state with the most public holidays, that Bulgaria is-what you are, so what you are and people didn't work, which is not true. I have gone to the trouble of consulting European countries - Christian. In 90% and more of them 15 August, or Holy Mother of God, or Great Mother of God, as the Bulgarian tradition says, is an official holiday and an off-duty day. I'll introduce you. In Bulgaria there are 12 official holidays, which are held unworkable. In Italy are 12 plus 4 regional regions, plus several more, i.e. half the state of Italy does not work for another 4 days. There the Virgin Mary is an official holiday. In Germany, 12 official celebrations plus several regionals in different provinces, which include more than half of Germany. That is, Bulgaria is again below the number of official holidays. St. Mary's Day is an official holiday in Bavaria in Bulgaria, we claim that we have good relations with the Bavarian province and the region. Romania 15 days, Holy Mother of God is also a public holiday. Greece, Cyprus, Belgium. In Belgium there are 10 official holidays plus 6 more regionals in the two main areas, you know, of Belgium. That means the state doesn't work again for at least another three days a year. France 11 official celebrations plus several more regionals, including there Great Mother of God is an official holiday. I list these statistics because I listened to comments, although there should be no doubt that this holiday should be official in Bulgaria because, I repeat, it is one of the three biggest Christian holidays. I draw these arguments, which, in my opinion, are not even consistent in terms of the fact that for such a holiday we should not give examples with other countries at all, how many working days they had, how many they did not have. As you can see, the claim that Bulgaria was the country with the most holidays and holidays is simply not true. Not to mention that in most of these countries, Italy, Spain, France and Germany, when the next day will be the official holiday of whether the province or the state, everything is closed until noon. It's a fact! So the main arguments that we will break, you see, the productivity of labor in Bulgaria, will reduce the working days compared to the other European countries, are simply not valid. Including in Switzerland, where we cannot say that people do not work, in 90% of the cantons the Great Mother of God is also a holiday and a day off. So, fellow Members, I suggest that all parliamentary groups support this proposal, so that we can truly honor our Christian tradition, which preserved us for 500 years during the time of Turkish slavery. Let us support the proposal and honor a bright day for Christianity not only in Bulgaria but also in the world. Thank you. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u29	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Will there be speeches? Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We're back on the Labor Code. For information, during this term of forty-fourth National Assembly, three and a half years, nine proposals were submitted to amend and supplement the Labour Code. I am sure that if you do not resign soon, which is what 75% of the Bulgarians want... [[crowding, comments from GERB and OP]] You'll round the amendments at least ten to fifteen.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u31	Stop reading!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u32	It's true that labour law... Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry, but with these calls, it's just... [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u33	Colleagues, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u34	It is true that labour legislation is essential for every economy, but it is also true that frequent changes in legislation, especially in labour law, lead to instability and uncertainty, chaos and unpredictableness. In practice, labour law regulates productive relations in every society and state policy in the labour market. I will note that in a working or contact group, or I do not know what group with the participation of the social partners, but outside the committees and the form of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation, a discussion on changes in labour legislation has started, especially in the Labour Code. Her work ended with fanfare and a National Tripartite Agreement. Why tripartitely, since the state was rather an observer than a participant, I do not know, but with 54, I think, proposals, supposedly consensually accepted by employers and trade unions, now oddly why most of them are not in the current proposal of the Council of Ministers. This leads me to think: should we expect a new portion of changes to the Labour Code; or does this mean that they were not quite as consensual as it was promoted in the media; or should we expect to pour them into the Ministry as proposals of MPs from GERB? My expectations were that the Council of Ministers would present a comprehensive vision, concept, vision, as you would call it, of changes in labour legislation relating to changes in the conditions and the way of labour associated with the fourth industrial revolution and the digitization of labour, which, no matter how much we pretend not to notice, occur irreversiblely and change the world, including labour relations. World trends are catching up with our country often faster than we expected. I don't know what stopped you from making a complete vision, but it's a piece of work and a missing one. Didn't you agree a mechanism for determining the minimum wage in accordance with the requirements of the Bulgarian ratified Convention No 131 of the International Labour Organisation? Why is this mechanism lacking in the proposals? Maybe it's not consensual, maybe it bothers you not to piss off employers who don't want a minimum wage at all, or what's agreed does not match the Convention and modern, modern employment relations?! Let us see what the Council of Ministers offers, because the proposals of fellow Patriots, with all due respect for their work and their views, are not among the priorities on the agenda of society. Perhaps what you are proposing should be the subject of a separate discussion to take account of, and perhaps we will support, but at the moment it is a very different question of working relations. The changes proposed by the Council of Ministers mainly relate to the commitment arising from the membership of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union to transpose the Posting of Workers Directive and the Working Time Organisation Directive. Changes related to social dialogue and collective labour negotiations have also been proposed, and according to importers, social dialogue is thus improved and state-supported and encouraged dialogue between social partners, but I think there is another objective. Here are also the amendments relating to the conclusion of collective agreements, the extent of their extension, entry and so on. The third group of proposals for amendments concern overtime, day-to-day contracts, the use of annual paid leave in cases where persons first enter into work and so on. This is where I refer the amendments related to the way the production process is organised and the working time. However, I focus on the aggregated calculation of working time and overtime and the attempt of importers to motivate these changes by bringing them in line with the basic legislative document in the European Union in this area "The 2003 directive on certain aspects of the organisation of working time, which allows negotiation of different periods with regard to the period of introduction of the aggregated calculation of working time and overtime through the collective bargaining mechanism. As if these were basically the key points in the Council of Ministers' proposal. When it comes to changes in the basic document governing labour relations, it is logical to have different opinions of social partners, trade unions and employers, non-national organisations represented by workers and employers, non-fellowship workers, political parties, different opinions and experts in the field of labour. From our kindly presented opinions, from the public discussions, from my independent studies among experts and specialists it is also clear that discussion and inconsistently accepted are the topics for the sum totaled calculation of working hours, overtime, collective bargaining and accession. And although these changes were deeply discussed within the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation, especially outside the National Council, and although they are referred to the European directive, they do not meet single support from social partners, particularly from trade unions. One part of the proposals is supported only by them, another part only by employers, and almost nothing together. In general, they are not accepted by the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria, because some of them are clearly detrimental to the employees. Of course, time is intense, technology is developing, industrial and labour relations are developing, working conditions are changing because of the widespread digitalisation and because of the unusual conditions imposed by the coronacrisis. This requires changes to the important law governing labour law relations, but changes consensus, balanced, not damaging, but defending the interests, rights and benefits of each of the parties in the labour process. These changes are unacceptable to us because this cumulative calculation creates an opportunity to increase working time and overtime. In general, the total calculation of working hours is a method by which the working hours of an undertaking can be organised optimally. Now that's settled with art. 142, para. 2 of the Labour Code and may be within a specified period, maximum-supplied. The time worked in the aggregate reporting shall be equal to the total normal duration of the working time for the established period. But that's theoretical. In practice, there are problems and the violations of labour legislation found by the Labour Inspectorate are most often related to the total calculation and accounting of working hours. The companies in which they are most often admitted are working in shifts and without a regulated holiday, working with extended time and so on. The proposed changes, instead of imposing a limitation on infringements, allow the employer to establish a summated calculation of working hours for 12 months, i.e. year-round, which in turn opens the door for overtime. In other words, the possibility of violations is increased and control is hampered. To think of him as the Labor Inspectorate! Changes must be made, but not in the direction of creating a legal opportunity to enslave employees. Even if we accept the changes, that won't change. The estimated working hours are used by the employer to cover overtime and, of course, to not pay it, especially in the conversion of night hours into daily hours. In general, with or without changes, the chaos with the aggregated reporting and calculation of overtime and overtime itself will remain, even at the expense of workers. And supposedly, compliance and synchronization with the European directives are declared against them in practice. In this case, the contradiction is with the 2003 Directive on certain aspects of the organisation of working time, the main objective of which is to set minimum safety and health requirements for the organisation of working time. Multiple studies have shown that increased working hours and insufficient rest result in a large number of accidents, errors, stress, fatigue, short-term and long-term health risks, especially when it is applied for longer periods. And that is exactly the kind of opportunity that is regulated here, and that is for a longer period. Nobody thinks that's what a private employer takes advantage of. In the public sector, there are categories of workers who are excluded from the scope of this part of the legislation, such as those working and serving in the armed forces and security at all, as well as civil protection services, prisons, fire and emergency safety. Such an attitude does not meet the requirements of the Working Time Directive unless the transposition of the provisions of the Directive and their compliance is ensured through collective agreements. It has become clear to everyone that with this combination of changes not only those excluded from the directive so far will remain excluded, but they will be legally joined and more for which exclusion will be agreed in some branch or other contracts. Knowing how in most cases the contracts are concluded in Bulgaria and this negotiation is made, be assured that it will. In accordance with art. 6 of the Directive the average weekly working hours, including overtime, shall not exceed 48 hours per week. However, the Bulgarian Labour Code allows the duration of the week's working hours to be 56 hours, and a system for the summation of the weekly working hours is introduced, no restrictions are provided for overtime by the national defence forces, as well as in the fight against disasters, carrying out urgent work and so on. Furthermore, and now the four-month limit, which is under the Directive on the calculation of maximum working time, is exceeded and is six months. If we accept the Council of Ministers' proposal and it becomes 12 months, how do we respond to the directive? My conclusion is: although these changes are made under the sign of transposition of the Working Time Organisation Directive, Bulgaria will continue to have problems with the implementation of essential elements of it. I do not think that in any way the proposed changes are in line with the opinion of the Economic and Social Council of the Republic of Bulgaria on the subject of the implementation of the system for summated calculation of working hours, developed by them on their own initiative and presented on 10 May 1919. This approach is not acceptable at all. Another stumbling stone in the Project is overtime. It is also directly related to the aggregated calculation and reporting of working hours. The subject of overtime is sensitive to both employees and employers. An unacceptable time, but it is understandable for employers to seek loopholes and legal changes to enable them to increase overtime and not pay it as such, but it is not normal for the state to assist them in this. Until recently, we have overcome the consequences of the global economic crisis, which started in 2008 and 2009 which, in practice, in the labour market, means that there is work, but with the majority of employers, there is no money for wages, which makes them strive to employ fewer workers and employees to maximize their burden in order to save money. Today, entering a new economic crisis because of the coronavirus, things are about to repeat themselves. All this leads to abuse in the award and payment of overtime due to the financial difficulties that some of the employers are experiencing. Nevertheless, workers at such critical times, in the event of a threat of being unemployed, tend to agree to uncontrolled and unpaid work. In conclusion. After 11 years of GERB management, after two or more years officially announced trilateral expert efforts to update and improve a number of legal regulations established in the Labour Code, despite the widely published mutual compromises and consensus, there are again no single solutions and overcoming the problems in our labour legislation. There is no such thing as the expected setting of modern conditions, as the new realities require. Our labour legislation is still far from previous similarities between the ratified conventions of the International Labour Organisation and the EU directives, is far from the trends imposed by the so-called Fourth Industrial Revolution. We of the BSP parliamentary group do not support the presented draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code. I firmly state that we remain at the positions we have requested on overtime and the aggregated calculation of working hours. We declare ourselves in defence of the rights of Bulgarian workers and employees. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u35	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Are there lines? I can't see. Mr. Ademov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Lazarov, Mrs. Petkova! At our attention are presented three bills to amend and supplement the Labour Code. On the two drafts with importers, the colleagues from the "United Patriarchs" presented in their presentations the reasons for the changes in the Labour Code. In terms of the competences of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy these bills are allocated to the Social Commission because in art. 154, para. 1 of the Labour Code are listed the official holidays and this is the main reason why our Commission has spoken on these two projects. Greater interest is the draft Council of Ministers to amend and supplement the Labour Code. Let me say in a few words the factual situation surrounding the adoption of this bill. This discussion on changes to the Labour Code dates back two years, when the then Minister of Labour and Social Policy and the next Minister of Labour and Social Policy in two working groups commissioned, together with the social partners, in the face of the national represented by employers and trade unions, at expert level, to propose changes in labour legislation to be adequate to public expectations. The discussion on some of the proposed texts practically dates back to 2012, since then there have been ideas for changes in labour law for which proposals have been made now. In practice, all the requirements of the Law on Regulatory Acts are met, there are working groups, a discussion was held at the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. On 17 June 2020, a National Tripartite Agreement with 54 measures was signed, and the idea of working groups and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy was to propose a bill based on a consensus at the maximum level of agreement between the two trade unions. Another question is whether this consensus has been fully achieved with the proposed texts. As far as the bill is concerned, in general, the overall assessment is that there is no clear, orderly, systematic concept for the development of employment relations. The attempt to satisfy all countries with a balanced approach leads to proposals in style for each of us... as a result, the objectives set in the proposed project are not achieved. A few words about the objectives proposed in this bill. The reasons for the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code say that the aim of the proposed project is to improve the adequacy of labour legislation regarding labour market trends and new forms of employment. However, let us see what the trends in the labour market are. Assuming that digitalization is part of the new trend of the labour market, assuming that remote work in connection with and with the cod crisis is part of the new trends in the labour market, including domestic work, all these issues are solved in Bulgarian legislation five or six years ago, when European Union directives were synchronized in relation to distance work, home work and everything related to the digitalization of the labour process. So we cannot in any case argue that the current state of the labour market requires any radical changes in labour law. This is the main thread put into legislation, claiming that the new trends in the labour market require some radical change in labour legislation. I would also like to say a few words in this regard, experts in labour law say that the Labour Code is the Bulgarian Labour Constitution. It's ironic! The discussion about the Labour Code coincides with the discussion about the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. And the Labour Code achieves a serious level of consensus very difficult. And here, in the Labour Code, discussions continue on important topics for years without achieving any result. And here the discussion about a new Code of Labour, as well as a new Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, is always up to date. So this strange coincidence brings about some type of thoughts that I do not think are resolved either in the Labour Code or in the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Of course, there are several favourable solutions in the proposed project, one of which is the use of paid annual leave when persons first get to work. So far, the requirement was to have eight months of service. The proposal now is for four months of service to be able to acquire the right to use paid annual leave. Employers, of course, object to this decision because they believe that turnover will increase in this way. I do not see what the importance of turnover is when it comes to a first contract of employment. If you want to take paid annual leave in the next job, this option does not actually exist. Next, the Regulation on the use of rights relating to early retirement pension schemes. It's about the Master's pension fund. When, in the context of the use of early retirement pension schemes, you acquire the right to a pension and benefit from that right, the employer is entitled to terminate your employment relationship only on the grounds that you have acquired the right to a pension. This category of workers and employees is now being given an opportunity for teachers to be able to take advantage of the opportunity to continue with their employment until the standard retirement years under the Social Security Code are completed, i.e. to have the opportunity to work for a few more years. Further, the reduction of the reference period for the aggregated calculation of working time. So far, this period is within six months. The employer can establish a sum totaled calculation of working time up to six months, while now the proposal is to do this only for four months, except for the hypothesis that a collective contract can establish a sum totaled estimated working time within 12 months. Last but not least, the transposition of the Posting of Workers and Employees Directive into services provided. Here it is interesting that the deadline for synchronizing the Bulgarian legislation under this directive expires on 30 July 2020, and the Council of Ministers introduced the Law on 3 August. The Council of Ministers is obliged to comply with these provisions. I do not know for what reasons the Kovid crisis has probably imposed an extension by a few days of this period. A few words on some other suggestions that impress. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2a it is said that the state promotes social dialogue and bilateral cooperation, the so-called biparty dialogue. This is European practice, a European instrument, a European standard, there is such a Directive. It is good to stimulate biparty dialogue, only it is not said what instruments achieve this stimulation. The state in what way and with what tools of labour law stimulates this dialogue? Moreover, it goes on: in Chapter 1, before Art. 1. 3 of the Labour Code there is also a title called tripartite cooperation. The three-way dialogue with its seven members on how it is carried out in the state of participation of the state, workers and employees, employers. The trilateral dialogue is preserved, and at the same time we are stimulating biparty dialogue. We need to be aware of what we are actually doing: we want the state to continue to participate in tripartite cooperation or we want to stimulate biparty dialogue, and the state remains to monitor compliance with standards, to monitor compliance with regulations. Here appears some subtle contradiction between whether the state should continue to participate in the trilateral dialogue, as described in the Labour Code, or to stimulate biparty dialogue, in any way to withdraw from administrative procedures and administrative regulation at the expense of biparty dialogue. This is a thin dividing line that needs to find a place between first and second readings. It is correct to note that the social partners support the proposals to amend and supplement the Labour Code in a large part of the texts, as they themselves say: in 70% of the texts. However, the most important issues, the most important issues relating to the proposed mechanism for the summation of working hours, the increase of eligible overtime, the possibility of extending the application of a collective contract or its separate clauses to all undertakings in the sector or industry concerned, and the three proposals that are the backbone of this bill to amend and supplement the Labour Code, despite some decisions in the right direction, have their internal contradictions and conflicts, are not unambiguously supported by employers and trade unions. One part of them is supported by employers, another part is supported by trade unions. The problem of supporting these proposals at the outset is not achieved by consensus. The proposed mechanism for the summation of working hours has been made several steps in the right direction, reducing the reference period, as I said just now, from six to four months for the calculation of working time. However, colleagues from BSP for Bulgaria are worried that in the form of estimated hours of work may be extended, overtime may be simulated as a summated calculation of working hours. The regulations on working hours, holidays and holidays answer these questions. I hope that concerns in this direction will be minimized. The next problem, which does not find adequate support, is the increase of eligible overtime to 300 hours. We should note that the Labour Code remains a ban on overtime. This is the main text. There are cases in current legislation where overtime is resolved within 150 hours. Now the proposal is that within the framework of the collective contract, this overtime from 150 hours can be extended to 300 hours. The big problem of overtime is not its duration. The big problem is the method of paying overtime. Regardless of the steps in the direction of increasing overtime from these notorious 25 cents to 0.15% of the minimum wage, but not less than one lev per hour, the problems in this area still remain. There is another controversial point and it is related to the possibility of extending the application of a collective contract or its separate clauses in all undertakings in the sector or industry concerned. We need to mention that the collective employment agreement is an instrument of labour law, a serious instrument of labour law that enables employees, on the one hand, and employers to establish, within the framework of the collective labour agreement, self-regulation, self-discipline of employment, such as the collective employment agreement and its signature, an emancipation of biparty dialogue. If biparty dialogue is working in an enterprise, industry, industry, this means that the opportunities for employees to benefit from better working conditions, from a better organisation of working hours, described in labour law, become perfectly real. And what's the worry? The concern is that, under current labour law, all national representative organisations of workers and employees, as well as employers, must participate in the signing of the collective labour agreement. This creates some difficulties and it is not a coincidence that in just one industry the brewery industry has a signed collective employment contract which is spread by order of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy. The proposal now being made, which is contested by part of employers, is that when one or more national representative organisations of employers, workers and employees sign a collective employment contract with written consent of the other national representative employers' organisations, workers and employees can request in writing from the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, with the agreement of the other employers' and trade unions, a national representative, the extension of the collective employment contract in all enterprises of the individual industry or industry. This, according to some employers' organisations, would create competition problems related to the possibilities of a cartel agreement, which the practice of applying this text, if after the second reading remains this way, will show whether importers are on the right track. To conclude, I would like to say that despite the problems that are related to the main three proposals in this bill, importers have made an effort to enable administrative intervention, administrative regulation of standards and rules to give in to biparty dialogue, i.e. workers and employees to have the opportunity to agree at the expense of pressure from the administration. This decision is in the right direction. Another question is whether it has been achieved in full on all proposals in the Bill. I hope that between first and second readings with the proposals to be made, the proposed bill of the Council of Ministers will acquire a slightly more working look for workers, employees and employers.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Are there lines? I can't see. Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u38	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I and my colleagues, who are not recently members of a parliamentary group, will not support the bill tabled by the Council of Ministers to amend and supplement the Labour Code with arguments that have already been heard by my colleagues in the Chamber, but we want to focus on them because indeed they are in violation of the rights of workers and employees. First, with regard to the aggregated calculation of working hours. On the one hand, the project corrects the long-standing violation of the European Directive, which allows for the application of the aggregated calculation of working time and orders for this only up to four months. For years the Bulgarian legislation had to comply with these European norms, which are undoubtedly binding. On the other hand, the proposed amendments to the Bill allow the period of the aggregated calculation of working time to be determined for up to one year in certain sectors and sectors. The Eurodirective clearly limits the application of the aggregated calculation of working time without any additional conditions. No agreement that this can happen when a collective contract is concluded is not applicable because the possibility of a derogation has long expired. The other restrictions are described in art. 19th para. 2 of the Directive. Thus defined in art. 142, para. 4 an opportunity would be another violation of European legislation in the area of regulation of the total calculation of working hours through national legal rules. In our view, it is absolutely necessary to withdraw this text in the second review of the Bill. The proposed bill also lacks any proposal for a change in the regime for the introduction of the total calculation of working time in the eligibility part of the same, only in specific and clearly limited cases of non-interruptible process. Secondly, in terms of overtime. The draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Code proposes once again providing for the possibility to negotiate, by collective bargaining at industry or industry level, a longer duration of overtime within one calendar year, with a limit of 150 hours per year being agreed to up to 300 hours on an annual basis. The labour legislation of the Republic of Bulgaria, similar to that of any modern progressive and developed state, proclaims the principle rule of banning overtime and its application is allowed in precisely imperative cases. In this direction, there was already a serious deviation in flexibility in quotes of working time, i.e. it was done for the benefit of business. I cannot accept the motives and arguments of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, according to which this legal opportunity, you see, would be in the interest of both employers and employees. If the employee wants to do overtime, in the vast majority of cases this is due to the extremely low labour cost in Bulgaria and in most cases it is at the expense of his health and the possibility of complete rest and recovery. With these arguments and with the lack of full consensus between employers and workers and in the interest of protection of employees' rights, we will not support the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Labour Code tabled by the Council of Ministers. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines? Any other speeches? Spoken by Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Deputy Minister Lazarov! At our attention we are looking at the Project for amendment and supplement of the Labour Code. The topic is extremely important and affects every Bulgarian family. Before I say some of the main things that are problematic in this bill, let me say that, from what is stated in the reasons, it is clear that the 2018 Working Group is preparing these amendments and they are related to achieving a broad consensus and balance in terms of contemporary forms and the settlement of labour law, as regulated in European legislation, and in line with it. Unfortunately, the 2018 discussion is under way, but no consensus has been reached on major and key topics. However, in the proposed draft, these topics are open and will be put to the conclusion by us as MPs. I can't help but mention the proposals related to the summated calculation of working hours, because this is a topic that needs to be widely discussed and a topic that will open a number of problems. A few moments ago, the comments of colleague Ademov mentioned hypotheses in which extraordinary work could not be treated and not paid when a sum totaled working time regime was introduced. But I will say that you are wrong, and this thing mentioned it and Deputy Minister Lazarov during the meeting of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee that the Regulation on working hours, holidays and holidays stopped all these hypotheses which are related to the worry of workers about whether they will receive their overtime. I would like to mention that the revision of the Regulation on working time, breaks and leave was made and the actual regime of the sum totaled calculation of working time was formulated in this regulation in 2018 better. Unfortunately for me, if each of you opens the reports of the General Labour Inspectorate, the report for last year, which came out in August, will see that 50% of all the non-compliances found and all the violations sanctioned by the Labour Inspectorate are directly or indirectly linked to a violation of working time. And I ask the question: why, honourable gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, do you allow yourself to open the possibility of this, even though it is linked to collective bargaining, to increase the reference period of the sum totaled calculation of working hours to 12 months? International Labour Organisation Convention No 1 and Directive 88/2003 explicitly regulate working time regimes. Let each of you ask yourself the question: is it normal, even though it happens at a branch level, with collective bargaining to enter a 12-month summated calculation of working hours? What treats the hypotheses of art. 142 of the Labour Code, namely the sum of working hours, is that the working week can be up to 56 hours, that the interweek rest can be 36 hours, can even be smaller at 24 hours. Is this attitude of the Bulgarian state towards Bulgarian workers normal? Do you think this liberalisation of working conditions helps Bulgarian workers? When we talk about balance, I believe that this balance is in no way achieved by this proposal for a summated calculation of working time. Let each of you open the Regulation for working hours, holidays and holidays. Let each of you read how the hypotheses in art. Art. 9a. 9b of this regulation. I regret to speak with members and paragraphs, but these are extremely disturbing moments, because at the moment Bulgarian workers will be placed in the conditions of working in a sumptuous calculation of the working time for 12 months. I am convinced that this is a turning back in those black years and in that reality in which people worked incredibly and their work was not appreciated. It is no coincidence that the Convention No1 of the International Labour Organisation, which says that the normal duration of the work week should not be more than 48 hours, and the Directive regulates real derogations.. There is such an opportunity for derogations and we do not deny it, but we cannot accept the sum total calculation of the working time to be 12 months, to be more than 56 hours the working week. These are unacceptable things for a Member State of the European Union. I do not understand how there is no activity in this House on these topics, which are extremely important and affect the interests of every Bulgarian family. Let me say one more thing that opens the door in this amendment and supplement to the Labour Code. We are currently increasing the reference overtime period from 150 to 300 hours. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, do you imagine in the systems of the introduction of a summated calculation of working time, then overtime, which is regulated as a ban and only in certain cases permitted, we give the opportunity to the Bulgarian employers to introduce a much higher reference period of overtime?! Is this normal when we are talking about protecting Bulgarian workers? Let me say a few things about the texts as regulated in art. 142. Open them, read them before you make this non-political decision. It is extremely important to all of us and has no color, no color. See how they regulate the sum totaled calculation of the working time when it becomes branchy and during the collective negotiation by regulation! Ladies and gentlemen, when will we here as MPs begin to comply with the principles of the adoption of the regulations? We always adopt legislation and then we talk about the regulation that we do not know. I ask the question: after this discussion is held for two years on the Labour Code, and the sum totaled calculation of working time is regulated even then in the proposal of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, why are we not given this regulation, this regulation, to which it refers this aggregated calculation of working time? It is precisely because we do not have clarity, precisely because we agree rather with the opinions of employers and do not respect the interests of workers. I do not want to mention the other texts, but I call for a second reading: get acquainted with an extremely important document. I believe that this document is consistent with both the reports of the General Labour Inspection over the years on all deficiencies in the Labour Code and with the Directive relating to working time and the Convention of the International Labour Organisation. This is a document drawn up by the Economic and Social Council in the middle of last year, which deals with and treats questions about the sum totaled calculation of working time. Read it and see how really Bulgarian employers, Bulgarian labour law opens up the possibility of circumventing the obligation of the Bulgarian employer to pay the worker the work he worked for, how the sum totaled calculation of the working hours during the working schedules which are introduced in the Regulation presuppose the non-payment of this work. Do you think it is normal for the Bulgarian worker to work 56 hours a week within a 12-month period? Do you think that's normal? If I ask each of you: is this a normal environment, is it Bulgarian labour law, who are we protecting right now?! I'm going back to something extremely important that I want to say. At the moment, I am looking at the shorthand of the Committee on Labour and Social Policy. Against me is Minister Lazarov and I will read his words: "Again, when properly regulated, including those problems which I mentioned, for the sum totaled calculation of working hours and under equal conditions no overtime should be generated. Ladies and gentlemen, read the opinion and see if there are any hypotheses surrounding this. With regard to other proposals, I will only say two things, and this will be the end of it. As regards the transposition of the Posting of Workers Directive. You missed the deadline, ladies and gentlemen, you missed the deadline by which this directive was to be transposed into Bulgarian legislation! We, over and over again, do not follow the provisions that have been assigned to us. But even more, for a long time Bulgaria has been a member of the European Union since 2007. Do you know that for 13 years we have been translating an aggregated calculation of working time in collective bargaining within a six-month period, which is absolutely contrary to international documents. They say: mandatory four-month period! That's how we're gonna drive it, and that's how the reports are gonna be. Unfortunately, this is also the Bulgarian legislation. Unfortunately, it is not achieved by consensus, especially on important topics that affect everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to abstain from this bill because it does not protect enough the interests of Bulgarian workers. Another thing I want to say. Where are the topics related to night labor? Where are the themes of fairer pay for overtime? Since 2007, the night work has been regulated in a regulation and is 25 cents. The fact that at the moment you almost declare that it will be increased and will be no less than one lev that does not solve the issue with these harmful conditions under which all people who work night labor work work work. I hope this bill today does not receive the approval from the House, but at second reading these topics must find a reflection to better protect Bulgarian workers. I call on you to pay attention to the international documents I mentioned, pay attention to the reports, listen to reason and understand that this is a matter that affects every Bulgarian family, we must be responsible to all of them! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Are there any lines? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. Mrs. Angelova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u42	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Truths were also said in the Chamber, and some of the speeches were an interpretation on a political basis, not an expert one. I would therefore like to clarify some of the changes that are being made to the Labour Code. This bill contains a proposal for amendment and addition to the Labour Code, a result of the work of a working group, which is drawn up by an order of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, in which all social partners, national representative organisations of trade unions and employers' organizations participated. The task force has been working for two years. The initiative for change is that some of the norms in the Labour Code are outdated and insufficiently adaptable. The aim of the Bill itself is to improve labour legislation according to the current socio-economic situation, labour relations with regard to new forms of employment and synchronization of legislation with international standards and norms. A significant part of the changes, as has been said here by the previous speakers, are supported by the social partners, but it is clear from the opinions expressed by the national representative employers' and trade unions' organisations that topics such as the proposed mechanism for the summation of working hours, the possibility of an increase of overtime to 300 hours per year and the possibility of the dissemination of the collective employment contract or its separate clauses in all undertakings in the sector and industry concerned are controversial and controversial. There cannot be a complete synchronization and a unified opinion on these three key topics, but there must be a development on them, seeking consensus and balance. We are ready to refine some provisions between the first and second votes. With regard to the sum of working hours. I will start from this point that the aggregated calculation of working time is one of the mechanisms used by employers to adapt the organisation and take account of working time according to the specifics of production. The current text of the Labour Code sets out a minimum and maximum working time reporting period, namely weekly and not more than six months, and does not allow those periods to be tailored to the specifics of the sector-specific production. Therefore, amendments are envisaged to ensure the balance of the rights, obligations and responsibilities of the parties to the labour market when an aggregated calculation of working hours has been established. In this regard, it is proposed that the aggregated calculation of working hours be from one to four months, which will create a more equal organisation of work for employees and easier reporting of the enterprise. The period of the aggregated calculation of working hours shall be allowed to be extended up to 12 months by means of the collective bargaining mechanism by industry. These changes will, on the one hand, stimulate social dialogue, on the other hand, enable an objective assessment of the need to introduce a longer period in certain industries or sectors where undertakings have specific features. The specific activities where it is possible to extend the period of the aggregated calculation of working time will be defined in a regulation of the Council of Ministers, subject to the requirements of Directive of the European Union and after consulting the national representative organisations of trade unions and employers. Regarding the second controversial topic, the duration of overtime. With changes in art. 146 It is possible to achieve greater flexibility in terms of working time, including in terms of overtime in individual industries or sectors through collective bargaining at industry or industry level. The change provides that, through the collective bargaining mechanism, a longer duration of overtime is to be negotiated at sectoral and sectoral level, but not more than 300 hours in one calendar year. The limit laid down in the Labour Code for the duration of overtime of 150 hours per year shall be maintained, which shall apply if no larger amount is agreed in the collective agreement at sectoral or sectoral level. Furthermore, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the provision in the Labour Code remains, with which the duration of overtime is further limited within 30 hours a day, or 20 hours of night work during one calendar month, 6 hours a day, or 4 hours of night work during one calendar week, 3 hours a day, or 2 hours of night work on two consecutive working days. These restrictions are sufficient to ensure the health of working people. The other controversial topic on which no consensus is found with all social partners is a change of the procedure for the dissemination of the collective employment agreement. Under the current provisions of the Labour Code, in order to extend a collective employment contract at a branch and industry level in all undertakings in the sector or industry concerned, it is necessary to sign it by all industry and industry organisations and to have a general request from them to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy. The Minister is not obliged to request an opinion from the national representative organisations and social partners. This makes the extension procedure very difficult to carry out, which is why it is proposed that the extension of the collective employment contract be made at the general request of the parties to the contract concluded at industry or industry level addressed to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, without the need for the collective employment contract to be concluded by all industry or industry organisations in the country. Other important changes to the Labour Code this is a reduction of the minimum required service to acquire the right to paid annual leave from 8 to 4 months of young workers and employees who first got the job. This will enable the use of paid annual leave by young workers and employees in the calendar year concerned, on the other hand, is also a prerequisite for better labour mobility. This change was made with the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Bill and the Law on the Civil Service Officer. This ensures a level playing field between employees who are in employment and those who are in employment. A change in art. 413 which reduces the minimum and maximum amount of the administrative penalty in the case of a repeated infringement related to failure to comply with the obligation to ensure health and safety conditions of work and provides that the penalty is from 15 000 to 20 000 BGN, now this penalty is from 20 000 to 30 000 BGN, respectively the fine for the guilty official to be from 5000 to 10 000 BGN. in sizes from 5 to 20 000 BGN. This limits the range between the minimum and the maximum of penalties, also ensures a comparison of penalties with the amount of penalties for repeated infringement under other provisions of the Labour Code. Next, in the case of a repeated infringement relating to the provisions of labour law outside the rules for providing health and safety conditions of work, as well as for infringements related to undeclared work, the penalty is a penalty or fine of 15 000 to 20 000 BGN, respectively for the guilty official to be fined from 5 to 10 000 BGN. There have been changes in art. 415 para. 1 of the Labour Code. A penalty for non-compliance with a mandatory prescription of a control body is envisaged and not as a whole for non-compliance with the forced administrative measure imposed. This currently limits the possibility of imposing sanctions where the forced administrative measure is linked to the suspension of the undertaking's activities. It is therefore proposed to set a penalty for non-compliance with any forced administrative measure and not merely a prescription. Next, sanctions are introduced for not cooperating with a control body to comply with labour law in the performance of its functions. Punishments have a preventative purpose. All these proposals to amend and supplement the Labour Code, which we discussed, ensure greater adequacy of labour relations regulations according to modern socio-economic conditions. Next, there is a strengthening of cooperation with social partners; promoting collective bargaining; better regulation of employment contracts for certain days of the month; the use of paid annual leave by young employees; employment training contracts and others; the rights of employees and employers in employment relations with an international element and secondment; more effective implementation of control activities and better prevention in relation to the envisaged administrative penalties for violation of labour law are guaranteed. Therefore, as I started my speech, all these proposals are the result of a two-year work by the working group in which all social partners participated. Of course, unanimity cannot be achieved when it comes to changes in the Labour Code, when employers' organisations are about a change, trade unions are of the opposite opinion. However, there must be development on these topics, because a Labour Code is needed to meet modern economic conditions and new forms of employment, as well as to synchronise our labour legislation with European standards and norms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Are there lines? I won't. Colleagues, 30 minutes adjournment. We will continue with the debates afterwards. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our discussions. A stated statement is made by the national representative Toma Bikov. [[Noise and lines.]] He's missing his turn. The next statement was made by Mrs. Jeleva, MP from BSP.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u45	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mr. Deputy Minister Lazarov! We need a discussion on changes in the Labour Code, especially against the background of the dynamically changing economic environment and the change in the labour market, which determines the need for a modern regulation of labour relations in Bulgaria. This topic is not really around texts that synchronise European directives and some cosmetic changes, amendments are being introduced that are related to the organization of the production process and working time, but they are enslaving to the worker. [[Noise and lines.]] In the words of the Ministry, the Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code is the result of almost two years of work between social partners and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The law, as far as possible, is a balanced regulatory document which takes into account the interests of the three parties and those relations between them acceptable at this stage. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u46	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u47	However, balance can safely be replaced by bargaining. Visible from the words and from what has been said in both the Commission and what we have in our attention, these changes are in pieces. There is no basic vision and main goal, there is no overall concept that we all want to see, or briefly, with all due respect to those who have worked on these problems and changes: [[Noise and lines.]] As motives for amending and supplementing the Labour Code, importers have indicated the need to develop labour law legislation; guaranteeing the rights and interests of the parties to the employment relationship, dictated by changes in the labour market related to globalisation and digitalisation processes, and a number of other well-spoken common phrases. The set goals are even more spectacular, and if we do not see what is being offered to us, we will be under the impression that these changes will solve much of the problems of workers and employers. However, the truth is not exactly such a.. these amendments do not solve anything material. What is offered to our attention? The two issues, which are most important and my colleagues have previously commented, have perhaps emerged as problems in overtime and the sum totaled calculation of working hours. Firstly, it is proposed that we fully transfer the responsibility for overtime to employers and trade unions, without setting out any framework, how and to whom the increased amount of overtime will apply, which will eventually be negotiated with the collective labour agreement if the latter is extended, of course. In the collective contract, only more favourable conditions for workers in those contracts may be agreed and agreed. However, the increased amount of overtime, which can be up to 300 hours, is it more favourable for the worker? Perhaps it would be more beneficial if it were provided for and increased the amount of remuneration for this overtime, but it is not there, it is missing. The second major problem is the cumulative calculation of working hours, during which the unions had a signature and signed over 100,000 workers. How do we decide that? Again, we are transferring responsibilities, however, to the Council of Ministers this time. And, notice, you want to accept something that we don't even know what its framework will be, what problems will be dealt with. We suggest that this deadline be transferred from six, as it has been so far. It is good that you reduce it to 4 months, but at the same time you open a loophole to be increased by collective bargaining to 12 months. It is proposed to be under conditions and by order laid down by a decree of the Council of Ministers. How will the problems that have caused these 100,000 workers be solved? No way. We won't even know what will happen in the future in this regulation. What are the texts that we can still call essential? I'll tell you some of them. The exchange of hot food with free change. The reduction of sanctions for labour violations will this be good for the violations that have just been pointed out to be so many? Of course, and leave, which in first place is reduced from eight to four months, yes, that is good. In any case, however, we cannot say and give a single assessment that these changes are essential, that they are grand, that they will decide the rights of workers, that the conditions be better. The topic of income is the most important. Colleagues, from what happens outside, what people need to hear about real problems, the biggest problem for them is income. Here and in space, colleagues of Patriots propose changes to the Labour Code relating to a change of official holidays, which I consider to be not serious because the agenda of the people is quite different. This topic, which is extremely necessary, could be settled in the Labour Code with a change of the entire employment pay section. There is no regulation, there is no mechanism that has been spoken of for years about minimum wage. There is also not our proposal, which we have been defending for years, protecting the trade unions, and for the payment of night labor to be settled in the Labour Code. That is why our assessment of the proposed changes is low and that is why our parliamentary group will refrain from supporting the proposal you are making, fellow Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva. Any lines to Mrs. Jeleva's statement? I can't see. I give the floor to Mr. Bogdanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u49	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will take account of the proposal in the draft Law of the United Patriarchs, which affects the change in the name of the official holiday 24 May. Very justified and with high academicity associate Professor Mihov presented the arguments with which we make the proposal, namely the holiday to be called the Day of Bulgarian Writing, Education and Culture. Why is that? I guess there is no Bulgarian citizen who is not familiar with the graphical systems that the Slavic peoples use, with the fact that the verb is the work of Saint Constantine-Cyril Philosopher that this writing is gradually dropping out in time, using in the Late Middle Ages in the Western Balkans, in some remote parts of today's Croatia. I will not enter into historical terminology and details, as these facts are known by the motives that we have set out here, and you have met them. The Cyrillic is definitely a pure Bulgarian creation. It was created by Kliment Ohridski in the Bulgarian state during the Bulgarian medieval kings or more precisely at the end of IX and the beginning of the X century. What is important to all of us is that today we have to distinguish between the church feast May 11th, which is the Day of the Holy Equal Apostles? the brothers Cyril and Methodius. It was celebrated for the first time in Bulgaria in the Middle Ages, and in the new age the Renaissance was the first such celebrations at the beginning of the 19th century. Subsequently, as you know, that day, after the change in the calendar in 1916, began to be noted on 24 May. Currently we have a dualism in celebrating the Day of the Holy Brothers: on May 11th the Bulgarian Orthodox Church celebrates the church holiday and May 24th is a civil holiday. This is the celebration where we honor the Bulgarian letters and the education, the educational work and so on. Let us note that in a long period of time after the liberation of Bulgaria from Turkish slavery 24 May was a pure school holiday. It wasn't official, it wasn't state, it wasn't a day of some kind of education or some culture, it was a purely Bulgarian school celebration. What prompts us to present these motives, and I would not agree with the arguments of the people who spoke before me that this is not part of the agenda of the Bulgarian society is a very important part of the emancipation of the Bulgarian people. When we mark the Holy Brothers Cyril and Methodius, the Bulgarian people began to lift up their spirit, they began to emancipate from the other peoples who lived and lived in the Ottoman Empire at that time. Let us not forget that our struggles were not only against Turkish enslavers, they were both against the fanatic clergy and against the fillings of other Slavic peoples who were trying to unite Bulgarian territories, Bulgarian population and to change the national character of these Bulgarian territories and these peoples. Therefore, we should not suffer from complexes, we should not use terminology and methodology from one another, past times. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u50	May I have your attention to the speaker, please?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u51	Let us not forget that Slavanophile is a political doctrine. It's not cultural, it's not enlightened. It is a political doctrine of another country that has its imperial goals and intentions from the time of Peter the Great. Therefore, we, who are in this Parliament, are called to defend the Bulgarian national cause and Bulgarian national identity. There were opinions both in the preliminary talks and in the couloirs that this problem was almost foreign policy and we would have affected someone's interests. I do not see anything foreign political in this Bulgarian holiday, which was adopted and voted by the Bulgarian National Assembly, to affect external forces. In the same way, ladies and gentlemen, someone would be offended that we celebrate May 6th as the Day of Bravery and the Bulgarian Army. It's St. George's Victory Day. Is this only a Bulgarian day and only a Bulgarian church holiday? I think there's an absolute identity between the two things, and we shouldn't distinguish between them. The Bulgarian education and culture is such. Since the beginning of the 19th century, when Balkan and not only Balkan peoples, European peoples have begun to form their national identities, they have created their own languages and their own alphabets. No other country calls its alphabet in any way other than the own name of the country in which it is. So do Serbs call their alphabet any other way? Do the Russians, Ukrainians or other Slavic peoples call their alphabet differently, not by the self-name of the state itself and of the people itself? Are we the greatest nihilists, honourable Members, that we will continue to use terminology, which is absolutely nationally irresponsible, which does not hold on to the Bulgarian national identity and which tries to artificially replace us with any other identities other than the one the Lord God created us with? I think it is the calling of each and every one of us not to speculate, not to politicize this issue, not to wait for any infinite opinions from all kinds of scientific or other circles, but to make this decision. It should be purely Bulgarian, specifically and not affect, not to forget, the Bulgarian national interest to emancipate ourselves once and for all from trying to be placed in some frames, in some restrictions that are not useful and are not good for the Bulgarian national identity, self-esteem and pride. What do we end up teaching our children? When they go to the first grade, they learn the Bulgarian..................................................................................................... Nobody says they're studying Slavic and Slavic. The alphabet is Bulgarian, the writing is Bulgarian and it can only be such. We do not deny the Slavic identity of the Bulgarian people and others who speak in languages that originate from the Slavic community. Although the most unbeatable as Slavic language, the Bulgarian language is so. We do not want to deny that we belong to this ethnocultural community, which has existed for more than 2,000 years on the European continent. We want to emancipate the Bulgarian language and Bulgarian writing as such, as have characterized their writings and languages all other Slavic Orthodox peoples. I'm going to give perhaps a final argument in the direction of why is it not this Slavic writing, as they are trying to insinuate us? Because they also write a few non-Glorian peoples on it. For example, it is used in Mongolia, in Kazakhstan, nations that are not of Slavic origin. Moreover, this graphical system is not used by many of the Slavic peoples, such as Poles, Czechs, Slovaks, Croats, Slovenians and so on. They write in Latin, they don't write in Cyrillic, which is again an argument that we can't look for some community and something common that is characteristic of all Slavic peoples. Ladies and gentlemen, I use the stands of the National Assembly to call on you to give our tribute to the patriotic idea, to show that the Bulgarian has self-esteem, pride that he does not suffer from clichés and does not suffer from fictional political imperial doctrines, but can defend and defend his national interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u52	Thank you, Mr. Bogdanov. - What's the line? I can't see. I give the floor to Mrs. Tsvetkova for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u53	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My colleagues associate Professor Milen Mihov and Krasimir Bogdanov presented the historical facts and arguments why 24 May is the Day of Bulgarian Literature and so it is correct to write it and not the Slavic. I'd like to add something more important. If we look back in the years, let's see how this holiday was celebrated not only by the institutions and historians, but also how it was perceived by the Bulgarian people. If we open the old albums and dig into the State Archives and the historical museums, we will see a number, dozens, hundreds of photos that it says: Valentine's Day. Cyril and Methodius ";" Celebration of the Day of Bulgarian Writing and of the Holy Brothers Cyril and Methodius ". Let's see those photographs. On them were filmed a crowd of marches, manifestions, shot are high school choirs, students, the Bulgarian Army, which during the wars also celebrated that day. I will also give you an example with World War I, when the Bulgarian officers and soldiers are solemnly marching on the central streets of Ohrid, on Skopje, Nis, on Tulcha precisely on this holiday. Then they celebrate the Bulgarian writing. Therefore, honourable Members, I call on you and I believe that to support this proposal is a matter of honor, of national dignity, of national self-esteem and pride, which everyone in this House must show and support our proposal 24 May to be a Day of Bulgarian writing and not of Slavic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Tsvetkova. Are there lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u55	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! GERB's parliamentary group will support, for the most part, the proposal of the United Patriarch at first reading, but with the following details. First of all, the debate on the celebration of the Holy Brothers Cyril and Methodius is difficult to conduct in the debate on the Labour Code. This is a debate that requires not only political arguments, requires national arguments and is a debate in which not only political parties should participate, but all Bulgarian citizens should participate. No doubt, for us this holiday is the most important Bulgarian holiday at the moment. It is no coincidence that 30 years after the adoption of the new Bulgarian Constitution the debate still stands: which is the national holiday of Bulgaria 3 March or 24 May? And there are many arguments in this direction. First of all, it is a holiday during which the modern Bulgarian national identity arises. From the beginning of the 19th century in Shumen this holiday was celebrated as the Day of Bulgarian Writing. We support the arguments of our colleagues from the United patriots that this holiday is certainly Bulgarian, it was invented in Bulgaria by the Bulgarians. It has subsequently become a celebration of other countries that write in Cyrillic. It is an indisputable fact that the Cyrillic alphabet is a writing produced by the court of Tsar Simeon the Great, by the Bulgarian state. This is the Golden Age of Bulgarian Culture and if we expand the debate on Bulgaria's national holiday, which is already a constitutional debate, we can argue that during this holiday we can contact our medieval past, in which Bulgaria was indeed one of the main geopolitical forces on the European continent. This holiday is consensual. It is celebrated by both old and young people of different ethnic and religious identities. It is unconditionally accepted by the whole Bulgarian society. It is therefore our insistence that when we make such changes, we look for an opportunity to achieve political consensus, but also a national agreement. We will support the Patriots' proposal at first reading, but in the period between first and second readings we will insist that we have a dialogue with all the political forces. In this dialogue to participate in public organizations, to participate in the scientific community, so that we can ultimately, if we change the wording of the holiday, make it so that a national union can take place and not divide the Bulgarian society along the line of this holiday. We do not wish to achieve such a result. Our desire is, if we make such a change, to make it meaningful, to make it with the consciousness of all the consequences of this, because such a change would probably have a certain international response, but to do it together so that we can then stand up for our rightness and not have any doubts about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u56	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. - What's the line? Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u57	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bikov, do you support or do you not support the proposal of your coalition partners? You support it, but perhaps at the second reading it will be two, three months and this bill will hardly see a second reading and this should be known by your colleagues from the United Patriarchs. Because instead of telling you the truth that you do not accept your bills, you are currently playing a game. Why the Labor Code? Well, where else, Mr. Bikov here are the official holidays. Where else would that happen? Why didn't you have the necessary talks with the individual institutions so far to find out if your...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u58	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u59	...Coalition partners are entitled to a similar bill?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u60	Your time has passed long ago.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u61	Wait, we have time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u62	It was expired, Mr. Stoinev, it was my fault.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u63	Then I'd like to ask you... BAN has a whole opinion. You must have read it, seen how untenable this proposal is. I mean, you won't support them, but right now you're wondering how to get out...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u64	That's enough, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u65	...so you can throw dust in the eyes of your coalition partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u66	I'm sorry, I didn't see your group's time was up. Are there any other lines? I won't. Mr. Bikoff for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u67	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Stoinev, I expected to hear, first, your position on this issue and, second, what is our relationship with the coalition partners. Surely, through this tone you have made the line, we will not achieve anything essential in this matter. I said this debate isn't about the Labour Code because it's a national debate. Every person in Bulgaria has a bearing on this issue, not only the workers, not just the unemployed, not just the parties and MPs. I personally got acquainted with the opinion of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, I think it should be respected, I think we could look for other scientific positions, certainly there are because the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences has no monopoly on science. I will remind you, in this sense, I didn't want to insult the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences in any way that in the late 1940s and early 1950s BAS claimed that there was a Macedonian nation. Today, BAS claims there is no Macedonian nation. That's not the point. The point is that this is a national solution that we want to achieve with dialogue and not with a forceful imposition of one position or another, because this is not the way to achieve such a solution. But it's certainly good to at least hear your position before we start arguing. That is why we are going to vote in favour. We are going to vote on this and hope that we will at least hear your position by second reading with its arguments that could convince us. Why underestimate your oratory mastery and your arguments, if you have any? I hope that this debate will be held with arguments, not with attacks and attempts to ruin this holiday, as we are already doing with many holidays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u68	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Are there any other speeches? Mr. Zablyanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u69	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My speech is from the informal group of progressive socialists in the Bulgarian Parliament. [[Noise and lines.]] Honourable colleagues, distinguished importers from the United Patriarchs! This proposal is the result of your guilty conscience, nothing else! From your guilty conscience, when two years ago...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u70	Please respect the authority of your colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u71	...you slept through the Friendship Act between Bulgaria and the Republic of Northern Macedonia. And now scared by what is happening at our Southwest border, you are wondering how to wash your political mistakes and the betrayal you committed three years ago, signing an untenable contract which enabled Northern Macedonia to have claims to the Bulgarian spiritual, cultural and material heritage, to the Bulgarian history. You voted on this treaty, so today...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u72	The theme is the Code of Labour, Mr. Zablyanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u73	...through the Labour Code and through this proposed proposal you have come up with, it is very difficult to deceive voters. Secondly, the proposal regarding the change of the name of the holiday has the following subtext and I will tell you why it is unacceptable. It is unacceptable, firstly, because the holiday arises as a celebration of Slavic writing and culture, and if you hold on to tradition, and if you hold on to history, you will not change the names of national holidays depending on whether you have a majority in the National Assembly or not. Thirdly, what is today's Bulgarian alphabet. Like any world alphabet, it is universal and gives much more opportunities to defend Bulgarian culture and identity to other peoples who enjoy it than if you decide to do the holiday just a national holiday. I'll give you an example: there are a number of national writings, such as Armenian, and other small writings that are alive, but are not world writings. I urge you to think about this, I think, the most meaningful argument: whether instead of writing the eyebrows of Bulgarian patriotism and nationalism, we will not take our eyes out, like Samuel's soldiers, alone with the spear. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u74	- What's the line? Are there any lines on the speech of the independent MP Mr. Zablyanov? I don't see anyone who wants to. Mr. Mihov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u75	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! We cannot leave such a statement aside. Yes, the speaker has the right to hold such a position because he was the only one who opposed the Friendship Treaty, but in everything else he was wrong. And as for the guilty conscience, the contract gives no reason...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u76	On the subject, Mr. Mihov, under the law, please. You're not taking a line, you're talking right now, you've got a point.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u77	I'm talking against the arguments... Don't interrupt me, Mr. Chairman. Please, very deeply and politely, because you are restricting my rights as a free citizen and a MP.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u78	I'm not the one who's limiting your rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u79	The arguments against this proposal are untenable. This isn't about a guilty conscience. Not our proposal, but the Yugoslav Communist Party and the Cominterna invented and imposed the Macedonian nation. Another argument, however, gives us the right to say: today the position of parliament, the Bulgarian executive, the Presidency, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is clear and unambiguous on the issue of the so-called Macedonian language, and when we say this, we come into contradiction that in Bulgaria it is written in Slavic alphabet. The contradiction is both political and historical. We give up on ourselves something that historically and culturally belongs to us. If we look at the festive reports, comments and social networks related to May 24th, we will see a repeating cliché: the most Bulgarian holiday. Only in the ritual words held by the protocol, which hold the norm, is used the written by the Ninth Common National Assembly, on 30 April 1990 in the Labour Code, denied by reality, a wording for Slavic writing. I recall that this ninth ordinary folk assembly was elected under the 1971 Constitution, which remained in the historical jargon such as the Zhivkova Constitution. This was a meeting, elected with more than 99% votes, in which there were two casion parties - one of them ruling under art. 1. And I ask the question: should we still follow what is written in this last totalitarian Assembly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u80	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Are there lines? The line, Mr. Siddy. The line is an objection to the substance of the statement, to remind you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prof. Mihov, extremely serious and academic expression, with which you did not simply say why this conversation was all about. Because, both in the Commission and now the colleagues of BSP have only problem with what Matushka Rusj and the Comintern will say. Say it simply, not in such academic language, to understand you in the left part of the room. [[Private applause from OP.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u82	Thank you, Mr. Siddy. Mr. Mihov, the back? You do not wish to accept the disagreement. Thank you. Are there any other speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm calling off the debate. We are now going to vote on the legislation tabled under the Labour Code. First, I put to the vote a bill amending the Labour Code, No 054-01-49, submitted by Iskren Vasilev Veselinov and a group of MPs on 3 June 2020, which concerns the wording of the holiday 24 May. They voted 111 MPs: for 73, against 4, abstention 34. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the second draft bill relating to the Labour Code, No 054-01-82, submitted by Julian Krastev Angelov and a group of MPs, which is related to the adoption, acceptance and validation of a new holiday. They voted 116 MPs: 26, against 1, abstention 89. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Mihov's procedure, please state your arguments for revoting.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u83	There's no argument!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u84	Mr. Chairman, re-vote procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u85	Revoting procedure. They voted 118 MPs: 27, against 1, abstention 90. The offer is not accepted. And now I am voting on the last Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 002-01-32, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 3 August 2020. They voted 145 MPs: 104 against 8, abstention 33. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u86	Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that the following additional item be included in the weekly Programme for the Work of the National Assembly: A change in the composition of a committee as a third item for today, and next item a fourth point a draft decision for the establishment of a temporary committee of inquiry for consideration of the Draft Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, importers Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs on 1 October 2020. I propose that the points become third and fourth and the other points be renumbered.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u87	It's a counterproposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u88	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am proposing back the proposed point, which Mrs Karayancheva just read, with a proposal for inclusion on the agenda of today's meeting at the end of the meeting, because there is very little time left until its end, to include a point which is so essential for the work of this National Assembly. The committee itself, which is being proposed, requires much more attention from us and, at the very least, requires, Madam President, that my address is to you, that the MPs have given out the draft decision on the establishment of this temporary committee. Such a project is not given to us and to make this proposal at the end of today's meeting is not serious and shows once again your unserious attitude towards seeking consensus on a topic such as a new Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. I ask that this item not be included in today's agenda and be proposed for tomorrow or another day when it is presented to us in the proper order and draft decision on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. The point is extremely important "You are right, we can extend the work until we accept it. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u91	We have committees.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u92	I put to the vote my proposal to include two new points. Vote 136 MPs: 93 against 42, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Moving on to point three: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO COMPLETION THE COMMISSION'S COMPLETION OF LEGAL QUESTIONS. Project! DECISION completing the composition of the Committee on Legal Affairs The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Christian Ivanov Vigenin as a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Voting mode. Vote 67 MPs: 60 against 1, abstention 6. The offer is not accepted. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Revoting yes, Mr. Genov, I saw that you have a revoting procedure. [[Noise and lines.]] Revoting, coworkers! Vote 77 MPs: 76 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u93	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I appeal to you, Madam President, to invite fellow Members of the BSP, including their leadership, to enter the Chamber and vote on the changes they have proposed. The majority do not have to vote on their changes. Finally, it turned out that the majority made their changes because they were not at work! And then they talk about what an opposition they were! What kind of opposition are you?! Where are your deputies to vote on your proposals? Not even Vigenin! [[Radio and applause by GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u94	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Moving on to the next point: PROJECT OF A DECISION ESTABLISHING A TEMPORARY COMMISSION FOR THE INVESTIGATION OF THE PROJECT OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Who will motivate the decision and read it to us? Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Project! DECISION establishing a Temporary Commission for the Study of the Draft Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and § 2 of the Additional Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Set up a Temporary Commission to examine the Draft Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. 2. The Temporary Commission discusses and analyzes the draft Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and proposes concrete proposals for changes in it. 3. The Commission shall consist of 18 members of three from each parliamentary group and three non-members of a parliamentary group, Members of Parliament, including President and Vice-President. 4. Selects the Commission's leadership and composition as follows: President, Vice-President, Members. 5. The Commission shall be set up for a period of two months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u96	Thank you, dear Mrs. Atanasova. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Unfortunately, the nightmare of GERB is reaching out to the Constitution. It passes in a new stage at 1300 hours you are unpredictablely importing some temporary committee. From now on, the BSP parliamentary group is firmly opposed to the establishment of such a committee and will not participate in it with three, but with no representative! [[Comments from GERB and OP.]] We will not legitimize this absurd, harmful and dangerous political move with which to buy some time for an exhausted government and majority, the foundations of the Bulgarian state are being attacked. Such a committee is unnecessary, untimely and totally unacceptable. It is unnecessary for the simple reason that there is no need for a brand new constitution. It's no coincidence that even in the pseudo-project you've shown, 90% is now our current Constitution. It is untimely, because even if there is a need for amendments to the Constitution and, more precisely, in the part of the judiciary that has created this debate, they must be made, firstly, by the procedures which it has provided for the Constitution itself, not by temporary committees at the last moment, not by legal amendments to the Election Code, which paves the way for referendums, which are constitutionally prohibited, not by incoherent political motives, but by clear debate, with clear objectives and with broad public, expert and political participation. That is why the Commission you are proposing is unacceptable. It is unacceptable not only for us, it will turn out to be and you will understand that it is unacceptable for many people. For example, I believe that no self-respecting lawyer, public figure, authority will be involved in the work of this committee. He won't want to, they won't want to get into the sordid political scenario that's being proposed. The civil society, the people of the square, the people of the protests, and the people who are just watching the political process will also not approve of your act! And you wonder why? You wonder why?! But they said they wanted a constitution, and when we propose it, they don't like it! - I'll tell you why! Because there is no government that, daily and in the eyes of everyone, violates both the Constitution and the laws of the country, to propose a new constitution. [[GERB lines.]] There is no majority that destroys every legal act it has touched to offer to attack our fundamental law! There is no power in which any decision is taken by a knife to offer a new public contract. That's impossible! If you are truly sincere in the desire that you have declared to be a restart, a new approach, a new political culture, if you will, then you must do one simple thing to resign, to appoint elections, in these elections everyone to stand up with their own ideas, including constitutional ones, and after the elections to adopt the necessary decisions. If you continue on this path of political stubbornness and higher stakes, it will not help you as a political force or you as individuals! [[Comments from GERB and OP.]] And speaking of personalities, I wonder who are those of you who have self-esteem and who will simply take this task on their backs and enter into this commission? Who are those who will lead it to carry this pseudoconstitutional project on their backs? I hope you realize that all the power of a righteous discontent will be poured out on them, and they will be swept away by this wave of discontent. Because people know what is happening and know what is the solution to the political crisis, which you are trying hard to turn into constitutional! There is only one solution: resignation, elections and finally normality, including in this House. [[Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria...................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u98	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Are there any lines? I don't see any lines. Mr. Zablyanov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u99	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I am speaking on behalf of six non-members in parliamentary groups. We state our firm position against the submitted Draft Constitution. The resignation of the former Minister of Justice Mr. Danail Kirilov and the author of the constitutional project, which you are submitting at his own recognition, is a sufficiently eloquent argument for refusing this project of his own authors. I cannot understand the stubbornness with which you continue to offer the old text of our Constitution, the current text of the Constitution, traded for a new Constitution! Text devoid of the preamble and the meaning it contains in it and in the Bulgarian State The Constitution of 1991. What the majority proposes for a text of the Constitution brings nothing.. creates chaos between the institutions, has very close political goals and intentions, has provoked and turned against itself the entire professional community! Give up this text! Now is the time! Don't make parliamentary committees! You have neither public nor professional support nor political time for such an experiment! Do not destroy the existing constitutional order in the country with the experiments you undertake! In your own confessions and in the Prime Minister's confessions, this step has been taken with tactical objectives and considerations without any clear thought of a comprehensive constitutional reform. I call on the majority to give up these destructive intentions. I declare that the six independent MPs will not participate in any form in this debate imposed by the majority!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u100	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. - What's the line? I can't see. We're moving on to speeches. Here you go, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I appeal to the majority in this House with a brief reminder, namely on the project so tabled or as my colleagues called it, this pseudo-project, a pseudo-constitution that you are importing. I appeal to the majority with this reminder, namely: colleagues, in your ranks you have a respected former constitutional judge who categorically denied this so-called Constitutional Project of yours. Not only that, but also the epithets you described her with were not very pleasant for the people who compiled the Project for this new Constitution. So pay attention in your own ranks to a highly respected former constitutional judge who spoke his mind and it was not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Once again, let me remind you that the point is for a temporary committee, so don't deviate from the debate. Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u103	Madam President, honourable Members! For a month or so, two months you can't understand what we're offering. In this National Assembly, we do not propose a new Constitution, we propose a procedure on which to walk the way to the Grand National Assembly, where, with the expanded legitimacy of 400 MPs, constitutional reform is to be made, especially in the part of the judiciary, for which you are very active. We challenged this debate in response to the demands of the protesters, who in the first days of their protest, requested a Grand National Assembly. The procedure for convening a Grand National Assembly is conducted in this way. The suggestion that in the current National Assembly we are proposing a new Constitution, almost that it will accept the new Constitution is false. Unfortunately, it is constantly repeating itself and many people remain convinced that almost in a month or two we will adopt a new Constitution here. It's not like that! Far more complicated is this process. If it comes to a Grand National Assembly, there will be a need to gather two thirds of the majority in order to adopt constitutional changes. This means reaching a consensus that cannot go without a party such as the Bulgarian Socialist Party, which is among the main political forces, as well as the other parties that will be in the next parliament. However, the point is that here I have heard a scenario which, in my opinion, will lead to that no constitutional reform will be adopted. You told this Parliament not to deal with this issue, to deal with the next parliament. When will the next parliament be involved and whether there will be room for this topic at all on the public agenda, we cannot say at the moment. From whom will you seek support? Perhaps from us, because you will still need 2/3 majority to make this constitutional reform. Actually, you're suggesting we do nothing. That's what you're offering right now. The proposal to have such a committee as we are proposing today is within its frameworks that we seek dialogue not only at political level, but also at expert and public level. You're against this! You're against calling a Grand National Assembly, you're against changing the Constitution. But we see that in the left political space and rather in the President's surroundings, it is said that there was a constitutional project there and I will be very interested in your reaction, since since 1991. You have a consistent position in defence of the current Constitution, how will you react when you see the presidential constitutional project? Maybe he'll be perfect?! Because it's been done for two years and no one knows what happened! Maybe it'll be done four more years there! Although Mr. Radev will most likely not win a second term, but he may continue to do so after he stops being president. This will happen, so we urge you to respond to the demands of the protesters, not to our demands. They want a Grand National Assembly. The European Commission, whose report you quoted all yesterday, says we have a problem in the judiciary. Can this problem be solved without constitutional changes? They say there's a problem with the D.A.'s office. Can these problems be solved without constitutional changes? Some say yes, others say no. We say: we, with our votes, with our support, are ready to provide you with a field in which these changes take place. You say, "We don't want to." Would you ever want our support for that kind of change? Therefore, I urge you not to waste the time of people with abstract desires, with abstract deadlines, ever in a National Assembly. It is not true that the present National Assembly is not legitimate. It is far more legitimate than the Thirty-Fiveth National Assembly, which was elected with only one ballot and which called the last Grand National Assembly, which made this Constitution, which we all claim to be successful today after working 30 years. How come it had legitimacy and the current National Assembly has no legitimacy? What does legitimacy mean? The National Assembly is legitimized according to the Constitution and according to the people who voted for it. For each of us we have voted people and this brings legitimacy, everything else is some improvisation on a free topic. I therefore urge you to participate, not to support, to participate in this conversation at least, to contribute, since you have ideas on these issues. We are ready for a full dialogue with the opposition, specifically and with the Bulgarian Socialist Party. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u104	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u105	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bikov, the very new draft of the Constitution that you have tabled here is the reason for this discussion about the formation of a committee. In case you've forgotten, let me remind you that with a hundred and twenty votes you have submitted a draft Constitution, which is, to put it mildly, scandalous. Some of the signatures were accompanied even by beaches not to recall this work, because you know it. This Constitution project and this temporary committee project is in your favor to withdraw them immediately and to no longer deal with this issue. Because society has made it very clear to itself that it neither asks you for a Constitution nor wants you to sit in this Chamber anymore. This opposition, which we are at the moment, very accurately and clearly reflect the views of the Bulgarian citizens and of the protesters who want one thing to immediately leave the power and government, resign and hold elections, and then decide whether this Constitution will exist. [[Noise and lines.]] BSP in this conversation, Mr. Bikov, will not participate and will not need to participate, because again I repeat you and I stress that BSP has heard the messages of Bulgarian citizens precisely and clearly and is guided by this line. We're not going to back down, so stop this pointless discussion and let's get this committee over with. It doesn't make any sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u106	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Simov, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u107	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Bikov, you say: two years we have not been able to understand what you are importing. Now I think of a literary reference, the name of a collection, Saroyan's stories, you bring something like nothing else into the world. Excuse me, the Constitution is not a greasy paper from a pie that can be used for conjunctural, specific political purposes, namely in this case the pounding of the ball and the extension of the mandate. There's nothing we can do to share in such a dishonest political act. I'm sorry, but tonight you'll see that what you're doing, the way you're doing it, if you think the protest is dead, just wait to see how people are going to react tonight. They don't want you to have a Constitution, they want a simple thing about resigning and new elections. Then we'll talk about the future when GERB is gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u108	Thank you, Mr. Simov. Third line, Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u109	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, Dear Mr. Bikov! I observe a very strange evolution in GERB's position on the proposed draft Constitution. At the very beginning, when the text was published, there was a very clear position of GERB in defence of this text and in defence of the fact that the proposed project was supported in terms of all the norms of constitutional creativity. After one week after you saw the reaction of the professional circles, other political forces and influential Bulgarian public figures, you swiped the constitutional bike and said that this is not the text you are proposing, but you actually want to start a free debate. Let me tell you: it is clearly written in the Constitution, but quite clearly that a draft for the Constitution is being tabled and the debate is being conducted on a specific project, not in principle, Mr. Bikov. This is not an academic activity or a seminar exercise in some of the universities. You brought in a project that was untenable, it was clearly defined as such. The president said he had something, but he's not very sure what he's got. And you propose that a constitutional debate be held in this environment? I will share for myself the position of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, which has always been such that the 1991 Constitution is the best guarantor for civil, social and human rights that has been created in the last 30 years. That the lying and hunger strike of those 39 MPs failed, then in that National Assembly, along with the prominent constitutionalist Mr. Georgi Markov. The Constitution has proven itself. Do not spoil the constitutional order in the country with such initiative. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u110	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Mr. Bikoff, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u111	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Ivanov, we have the right to deal with this matter as well as you have the right to deal with it. If your opinion is that the constitutional issue should only be opened when BSP has more than half of the MPs in parliament, it is an illusion. This question can be opened by anyone who has the legitimacy to do it, and we have the legitimacy of being the first political force in addition to everything else. I will tell Mr. Simov that before the new National Assembly comes, you are already beating the ball on this issue. And Mr. Zarkov said it very clearly: resign, in the next parliament we will see. There is one phrase: the man took the money and said we will see this you offer to the Bulgarian citizens at the moment. To Mr. Jablyanov. The debate today, Mr. Zablyanov, is whether there should be a Grand National Assembly, I repeat, it is not for the Constitution. The Constitutional debate will be held at the Grand National Assembly, regardless of what project we are going to submit today. The Grand National Assembly will take its decision and it will take it, I repeat, with a two-thirds majority, there will hardly be a party to receive such a majority in the next great parliament. I hope, first of all, whether or not we will successfully bring our desire to a Grand National Assembly, to make sure that political dialogue is restored. In my opinion, the Grand National Assembly could be an instrument for this, because the political crisis will not be resolved with the next parliamentary elections. It will then begin and we must now prepare how we will overcome it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u112	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. Mr. Iankov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u113	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I'm addressing the importers. The Constitution hasn't been exhausted, it's comprehensive. Please meet her and follow her. We refuse to participate in the survival scenario of Borisov's government. We refuse to participate in the establishment of a temporary committee for consideration of a draft Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. We cannot be accomplices in the distraction of the entire society from the problems that have deepened through the management of the majority, which broadcast the cabinet of Boyko Borisov. Read the European Commission Report and consider whether you have reason to claim to stand even one more day in the country's governance.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u114	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Svilensky, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u115	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, we hear from you that the issue is not the Constitution. The question is the Grand National Assembly. You just want there to be a Grand National Assembly, and the Constitution clearly states when there is a Grand National Assembly. A great National Assembly is being convened to adopt a new Constitution. Let's go back to the beginning, where you started a few months ago, protests with a request for immediate resignation of Borisov and a situation in which the prime minister is in chess, there is nothing to do. He had to resign for weeks or months... [[Comments from GERB: "It is not on the topic. "]] Listen to me, I will also come to the topic where the Justice Minister Danail Kirilov then came up with this thing that proposing a new Constitution, proposing a Grand National Assembly, will allow the Prime Minister from two to five months to survive, not to have an office of service and thus to reach March. I think with this thing, everyone in this room agrees that it's just time-consuming. The prime minister himself said: on September 2nd we have 120 votes, and on November 2nd we have 160 votes, and I am resigning, right? [[(Reply of Tsveta Karayancheva: He didn't say that.]] You wrote quickly, not you, who wrote it does not matter, wrote quickly a project that received the assessment of lawyers, constitutionalists, legal lobby, scientific circles, all Bulgarian citizens received their assessment. The Minister of Justice has resigned, and you all agree, even though you have signed it, that this project is not working. And now you're making a committee to do what? To make this project better, given that Mr. Bikov says that the goal is not a Constitution, but the goal is a Grand National Assembly, that what was submitted on 2 September is an invitation to talk. Talk about what? We, these MPs here, will not do the Constitution, will make it the others in the Grand National Assembly. So what's this committee gonna do? She's gonna rewrite texts, make this project better than the one you imported? What is the purpose of this committee? Look, you're sabotaging your own prime minister, who wants 160 signatures on November 2nd, and if they're not, he'll resign. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] If he has them, he can resign again. Now you're giving another two months of new two months of agony. Who are you lying to, guys? You can't lie to us! You all know it because you still understand what it's about, that you can't lie to yourself. Media and Bulgarian citizens also understand what this is about. Well, let's put an end to this lying thing you're trying to... Madam President, maybe I can't find the right word, sorry if I'm insulting someone. But the delusion you make of the Bulgarian society, let's move on to the agenda that remains on this National Assembly, expecting the resignation of the government and new elections, and then to become what is written... Make your own chronology. You don't want a Constitution, you want a Grand National Assembly. At the same time, you don't want a Constitution, you do a commission to make a Constitution. You say that what you have imported is an invitation to talk and that it is not worth, rudely speaking, and at the same time this committee will have to correct it. The largest constitutionalist in your group refuses to participate in this conversation, refuses to vote, refuses to sign, and you are now putting us all... When the Constitutional Law expert in your group doesn't sign and says it sucks, we now have to support some committee to fix something that is nothing. I mean, this delusion that, with these two months, this committee is going to accomplish something, that some project is going to be done... You brought something in, the procedure is running. Let's see if there are 160 votes on November 2nd, or not, and if there are not as written in the Constitution. What's the point? If any of the importers come out and tell me the meaning of this committee and the result you expect to get, I'd be really grateful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u116	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Veselinov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u117	Madam President, honourable Members! With all our desire to push through a certain type of political speech and certain political ones, we must respect the Constitution we are talking about, we must respect the procedures in the National Assembly and we must speak at least a little bit of the truth. The truth is that there is no option to change the Constitution from this National Assembly, which will change the main problems of the society.. those put for the judiciary, for what you, colleagues, on the left, place for the mixing of the authorities, for the lack of full division between the authorities. You're putting it as a thesis, aren't you? Well, there's no way now with a regular National Assembly this can be accepted. This must be accepted with a new Constitution. I would like to point out that since 2013, IMRO has consistently acknowledged the thesis that there must be a serious constitutional change and it is going through a Grand National Assembly. Why? Because this constitution, which you praise so much, I am not surprised, by the way, that BSP praises it, was made by the former Communist Party to perpetuate its influence for as long as possible. And she did it. As a result, we all see at what level of development our country is. The big problem with this Constitution is that it does not allow strong leadership, it does not allow serious changes. It trapped every single public debate, in fact, on a third of the political representation. And that's the big problem. It's no coincidence from 2013 that the first thing people have been lifting up ever since they rose to rebellion is that they want to change the rules in the country. You vote your new leader to be alive and well and to be congratulated, to make you MPs, then you will want to make him prime minister and how exactly will you account for him when something goes wrong?! Well, that's what's vicious about our Constitution. There is no separation of authorities....................................................................................................... Nothing can ever be undone. However, the problem is that constitutionalists in that Grand National Assembly have done everything they can to make it almost irreparable. Because the mechanism for the Grand National Assembly is to be dissolved by the fact that the current National Assembly, at the time of its decision to convene the Grand Assembly, must be dissolved, and then the Great must be dissolved as soon as it decides on the issue for which it is gathered, condemns the country to a certain period of political instability and no political party that has taken power will proceed to such a debate. And that's why I'm sure if you win tomorrow's election, the last thing you'll think about is changing the rules in the country. Everything will go on like this. In a few years, people will rebel again because the system will give the defect it always gives. Because today you are accusing Borisov's government of corruption, however, this government has come to replace the corrupt government of the Triple Coalition. Isn't that right?! And now the system, not the players, is important. We have to change the system! And that's what I'm saying absolutely convinced. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] People wanted this. You're replacing their demands by becoming their political speakers. Okay, people got smaller in the squares, eventually they'll completely stop coming out, because it's clear that a political status quo wants to reproduce itself. That's a priori clear. You want to pretend to hear the voice of the people, but you are against referendums on the most basic things relating to constitutional reform. So how? Why? I don't understand! In this respect, the debate is clear.. we have a proposal to institutionalise this debate, to invite constitutionalists to rule, to invite citizens. The task, however, is not for them to write a new Constitution. Please deal with the texts or at least one small textbook on Constitutional Law. The task is not to write a new Constitution, the task is to say the questions that stand before this National Assembly. They are not decided by him, it cannot make such a radical reform of the judiciary, it cannot change the relationship between the authorities, and that is why it must be dissolved and a Grand National Assembly will come. Well, this is the task that this committee has to brave and report to us here in the Chamber, and we have to rule. Of course, you have the right to continue blocking the development of the state for several more decades and refusing constitutional change. We have the right to continue to demand this constitutional change. After all, people will choose who was on the right side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u118	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. A line? I can't see. Here you are, Mr. Baychev, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u119	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I was pleased to notice that the Bulgarian, apart from football and politics, already understands from Constitutional Law and in depth. It's funny why they don't listen to the specialists. [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Tsipov.]] Here I would like, as Mr. Tzipov has been throwing at me, not only to hear the opinion of Mr. Tzipov, Mr. Christian Mitev, Anna Alexandrova, Desislava Atanasova, who are people of about one generation and we have studied Constitutional Law. Regardless of which collective in Constitutional Law are written to us textbooks, they are all adamant that a new Constitution is offered only and then in the event of a change of social economic or social policy relations. I mean, if we're already out of economic order, out of capitalism, and we're building a confident order called conditional gerberism, then get out and declare this thing. If we're out and we're gonna change the public-political relations, let's state these things. And that is why I call on my fellow lawyers to go out and talk, not people who are not familiar with legal topics. The other thing I would also like to share with you is precisely the opinion of constitutionalists who definitely say that the Constitution should not be touched. What exactly have we not understood, and who are we asking for a conversation, given that each of the prominent constitutionalists has stated that there is no need for a change in the Constitution? However, if there is a need, if there is something to change, I think it is also possible within this National Assembly, since we so much want to change, for example, the judiciary. And that's why I'm gonna have to ask you, if you could get your lawyers in line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u120	Thank you, dear Mr. Baichev. Come on in, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u121	Mrs. Chairman! Mr. Baychev, we heard from you and from BSP that you do not want to participate in such a committee, you do not want a Grand National Assembly, you do not want changes in the Constitution, because the current Constitution is perfect and perfect, and so on, although much of the protesters, and not only these protests, but also years ago, have always said that there must be some change and this Constitution, however perfect it is, must still respond to the new realities, at least that we have entered the European Union and NATO, right?! But you said something earlier: the specialists. This country, our Bulgarian state, is governed and a Constitution by the National Assembly is voted, not by the specialists. And I will remind you of a historical fact so that you do not underestimate the people who understood Constitutional Law, who did not understand who was a lawyer, who was not a lawyer. What about in the first Bulgarian Assembly, when the Tarnovo Constitution was voted, how many prepared lawyers and constitutionalists were there? Maybe this Constitution is better than today. So do not divide people by whether they have the right to an opinion on how things should change in the Bulgarian Constitution and what it should contain. Here it is not only a question of being a good specialist, writing the text correctly and precisely, here it is a question of the Bulgarian society, political parties to make sure that in this Constitution there is a pawned democracy, and a cause, and the perspective of the Bulgarian society, and not only the purely legal texts written as they should be. So please do not discriminate against all other people in Bulgaria who have the right to talk about that there should be a change in the Constitution and what change there should be.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u122	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Second line, here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u123	Thank you, Madam President! Dear colleague Baichev, yes, I suppose that we have studied from similar textbooks, but whichever textbook you actually take is Professor Boris Spasov's, or Professor Emilia Drumeva's, or Professor Stefan Stoychev's, in fact, in each of them you will find that if you want to have a decisive reform of the judiciary, even more than that a change in the place of the Prosecutor's Office, will it be separate, outside the judiciary, outside the executive power, whether it will pass from the judiciary to the executive authority, it is a quite substantial change that requires the convening of a Grand National Assembly. Remember also Constitutional Court Decision No 3 of 2003 on the form of government. Then the Constitutional Court came up with an interpretation that the transfer of a body of the judiciary was just then about the prosecution, from the judiciary to the executive, is a change of the form of government, which changes the form of state government requires the convening of a Grand National Assembly. If we believe that we have more serious problems in the judiciary, which extend not only to the prosecution, but also to the institutionality, for example, in the judiciary, there is no way you will not be able to convene a Grand National Assembly, and the adoption of a new Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u124	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Third line? I can't see. Hole, Mr. Baichev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u125	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'll start in line with the lines. Dear Mr. Angelov, I quote to you: The people have wanted some changes. I am very sorry, but even if you haven't been able to identify the problems, we are now making a committee and we are just beginning to identify them and identify them, to put it mildly, seriously. And as for the Constitution, to remind you that it was thanks to this Constitution that Bulgaria was accepted in the European Union and in NATO. So this is a good and active Constitution. I'll tell Mr. Mitev this. Mr. Mitev, I agree with you a little bit, but I continue to argue that every debate that is to come, let it be led by people who understand this, have a concept so that it can still be formulated before the respective National Assembly what exactly will be done, what changes are proposed and only then proceed to some other steps after a discussion between the political forces. Not just insist on changing the Constitution at all costs. Change for change itself won't do us any good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u126	Thank you, dear Mr. Baichev. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u127	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Because some of the colleagues from GERB at the beginning of this debate were saying that we are actually talking today not about the adoption of the Project for a new Constitution, about the convening of a Grand National Assembly, but especially about a procedure that we at BSP have not understood. Let's ask ourselves: what procedure are we talking about? When we talk about procedure, let's ask ourselves two more questions. Why are these actions now being taken? It seems to me that here the answer is obviously unique to everyone in this room, and also to the people who are outside of it. The aim of this procedure, as the GERB colleague said, is that the desire of the prime minister and the majority in the House is to buy some more political time. If this was not the case, this procedure would have started at the beginning of this term at least because if memory does not lie to me, we are in GERB's third management term. I wonder: was it now necessary for the Prime Minister, at the end of the third term, to understand that his Constitution is to blame for the hardships in his and in your government, gentlemen of GERB? [[Radio, GERB lines.]] The second question we need to answer when it comes to the procedure is: why is it done this way? Wise people before us in previous Chambers of the National Assembly have understood that the entity of this procedure, which is envisaged in the current Constitution, requires that the draft of this Constitution be supported by two thirds of the MPs. This implies a very broad support from not only members of the National Assembly, but also from civil and non-governmental organizations outside this building! This suggests in this debate, in finding this consensus on this draft Constitution, which you want to implement, the support of these people outside who have worked very hard in recent years! Because there are at least a few NGOs who have worked very hard for several years on amendments to the Constitution, taking into account all the comments of various international organisations on this topic! Obviously, however, this debate is not sought. This consensus, which is envisaged in the current Constitution, does not matter to you, colleagues from GERB. Finally, I am really surprised at the self-confidence with which you import a New Constitution Project! It is introduced on a proposal from the Prime Minister, which is an example of how every day the existing Constitution can be trampled. Tell me: is there another country in Europe, and because it is a proposal of Citizens for the European Development of Bulgaria, have you heard of a case in which the European Parliament has requested a hearing of the President of the Commission of the European Union, to call Mrs Ursula von der Lyon and to refuse to appear to answer questions only because the questions are asked by the opposition or because the meeting is called at the request of the opposition in Parliament?! There is no such case in Europe or in the European Parliament! [[Reply from the O.P.: "Who has refused? "]] Since we are at the end of the meeting and I see that the House is not complete.. There is obviously no interest in the government in a substantial debate on the subject..., I would like, Madam President, to do a roll call check to see who is present in the Chamber. [[GERB's loud noise and lines]] [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u128	Danchev, where are you?!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u129	The cafeteria says I'd like to!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u130	We are not going to vote right now, Mr. Danchev. We'll continue the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u131	Because, Madam President, there have been calls from the House, I am proposing before the vote is called upon.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u132	Thank you, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u133	Is that better? [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u134	Are there any more speeches? I can't see. Will there be an extension procedure? [[Reply by MP Daniela Daritkova.]] It's the way it's supposed to be. Guys, are we done with the debate? I am closing the debate on this point and we are starting a roll call because we are about to vote. [[The Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria is leaving the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u135	Hello, fugitives! Shoot them! There are cameras!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-01.u136	Colleagues, why are you leaving the gym? You want a name check. [[GERB lines.]] We have nine more minutes to vote tomorrow in this situation. [[Comments from GERB and OP.]] There is a procedure for voting now I will tell you what we are about to vote: Project! DECISION establishing a Temporary Commission for the Study of the Draft Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and § 2 of the Additional Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Set up a Temporary Commission to examine the Draft Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. 2. The Temporary Commission discusses and analyzes the draft Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and proposes concrete proposals for changes in it. So far, because then we have to vote on the number of members. That is what we will be voting on. I'll start the roll call. Adlen Shukri Shevked is absent. Albena Vladimirova Naydenova- absent Alexander Dimitrov Pawnov- absent Alexander Ivanov Matsurev- here Alexander Koychev Ivanov- here Aleksandar Mairov Siddi-here Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov- absent Alexander Petrov Alexandrov- here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov- here Alexander Tihomirov Simov- absent Altimir Emilov Adamov- here Anastas Marinov Popdimitrov- absent Angel Iliev Isaev- absent Andrian Ivanov Raykov-- here. Anna Vasileva Alexandrova- here Anna Nikolaeva Slavova- absent Anton Konstantinov Kutev- absent Asya Atanasova Peeva- here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov- here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov- absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov is absent. Bogdan Emilov Botsev- absent Boris Vangelov Borisov- here Boris Petkov Kirchev- here Boris Yankov Yachev- absent Borislav Ivanov Borisov- here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva- missing Bürhan Ilyazov Abase - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov- here Valentin Georgiev Lambev- absent Valentin Ivanov Radev- absent Valentin Kirilov Kasabov- here Valentin Mirchov Milushev- here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova- absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov- absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov- here Vasil Milanov Antonov- absent Vasil Tsvetkov- here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov- absent Velislava Ivanova Krasteva- absent Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova- here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva- absent Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - absent Veska Marinova Nencheva- absent Violeta Ruseva Jeleva - absent Vladimir Slavchev Valev- here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev- here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov- absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva- here Galya Stoyanova Zhelyazkova - here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov- absent Georgi Georgiev Stoilov- absent Georgi Dimitrov Andreev- absent Georgi Evdokiev Markov- absent Georgi Zaprev Dinev- here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov- absent Georgi Kolev Kolev- absent Georgi Nikolov Vergiev- absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski- absent Georgi Tenev Stankov- absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski- absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov- absent Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova- absent Daniel Petkov Yordanov- absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva- here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova - absent Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova- here Danka Evstatieva Zidarova-Lurtova- here Dean Stoyanov Stanchev- here Delyan Slavchev Peevski- absent Desislaw Petrov Taskov- absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov- absent Desislava Angelova Todorova- here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva- here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov is absent. Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov is absent Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov- absent Dimitar Boychev Petrov- here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev- here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - absent Dimitar Ivanov Avramov- absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev- absent Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov- here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov- here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov- absent Dobrin Nenov Danev- absent Donka Dimova Simeonova- absent Dora Ilieva Yankova- absent Dora Stoyanova Hristova- absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- absent Evgeni Genchev Budinov- absent Evgenia Biserova Alexieva- here Evgenia Danielova Angelova- here Evdokia Slavchova Asenova- absent Elena Vladimirova Angelina- here Elena Stefanova Pesheva - absent Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov- absent Emil Marinov Hristov- here Emil Seraphimov Tonchev- here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova- here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin is absent. Errol Osman Mehmet-- absent. Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev- absent Brought to you by Vassilev Iankov- here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov- absent Ivan Dimov Ivanov- absent Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev- absent Ivan Nikolov Mihovski- here Ivan Stefanov Valkov- here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov- absent Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva- here Ivo Angelov Hristov- absent Iglika Ivanova-Subeva- here Ilian Angelov Timchev- absent Imren Ismetova Mehmedova- absent Irena Metodieva Dimova- here Irena Todorova Anastasova- absent Sincerely Vasilev Veselinov- absent Ihsan Halil Hakke is absent Yordan Apostolov - here Yordan Iliev Yordanov- here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- absent Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev- here Kalin Lubenov Velev- here Kalin Nikolov Popovski- here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin is absent. Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva- here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - absent Konstantin Veselinov Popov- here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev- here Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov- here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov- here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev- absent Krasimir Mitkov Subev- here Krasimir Hristov Jankov- absent Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Cristina Maximova Sidorova- absent Krum Kostadinov Zarkov- absent Krastina Nikolova Takova- missing Lalo Georgiev Kirilov- absent Lilyana Drumeva Radeva- here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev- absent Manoil Minchev Manev- here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova- absent Maria Yordanova Ilieva- here Maria Yordanova Tsvetkova- here Maria Shtereva Belova- here Martin Stefanov Obreshkov- absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova- absent Milen Vassilev Mihov- here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova- here Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov- absent Mitko Kostadinov Polychronov- here Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov- absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov- here Mustafa Sally Karadaye- absent Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova - absent Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer is absent Nikola Iliev Dinkov- absent Nikolay Asenov Tishev- absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov- absent Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov- absent Nikolay Dimitrov Penev- absent Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov- absent Nikolay Krastev Boshkov- absent Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov- here Nikolina Panayotova Angelkova - absent Nona Krasteva Yotova- missing Pavel Alexeyev Hristov- here Pavel Dimitrov Shopov- absent Petar Georgiev Kanev- absent Petar Hristov Petrov - absent Plamen Dulchev Nunev- here Plamen Ivanov Manushev- here Plamen Tachev Petrov- here Plamen Trifonov Hristov- here Polina Alexandrova Shishkova- absent Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova- here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev- absent Radoslava Plamen Chekanska- here Radostin Radoslavov Tanev- here Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva- here Ramadan Bajram Atali is absent Rosen Zhivkov Ivanov- here Rosen Malinov Malinov - absent Rumen Vassilev Gechev- absent Rumen Nikolov Georgiev- absent Rumen Petrov Genov- here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev- here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova- missing Svetlana Angelova Naydenova- here Sevim Ismail Ali is absent Sergey Manushov Kichikov- absent Simeon Georgiev Naydenov- here Simeon Hristov Simeonov- absent Slavi Dichev Netzov- here Slavcho Stoev Atanasov- absent Smilyana Nikolova Niva-Krsteva- missing Spas Georgiev Gurnevski- here Spas Yanev Panchev- absent Stanislav Ivanov Popov- here Stanislav Ivanov Stoyanov- here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov- here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov- absent Stanislava Krasimirova Stoyanova- here Stefan Apostolov - here Stefan Ivanov Burgeev - absent Stay Mitev Stoynov- here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev- absent Stoyan Radkov Bojinov- absent Tanner Mehmed Ali is missing. Tanya Todorova Petrova- here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov- absent Teodora Atanasova Halacheva- absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva- here Todor Baychev - absent Toma Lubomirov Bikov- here Thomas Nikolov Tomov- absent Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Hayri Recepov Sadakov- absent Halil Rexepov Letifov is absent Hamid Barry Hamid-- absent. Hassan Ahmed Ademov - absent Hristian Radev Mitev- here Hristo Georgiev Gajev-here Hristo Tanchev Prodanov- absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva- here Tsvetan Borisov Topchiev- absent Chavdar Yordanov Velinov- absent Julian Krastev Angelov- here Yulian Mihailov Papasimov- here Yavor Bozhilov Notev- absent Yavor Rumenov Bojankov- absent Now we're gonna figure it out, guys, we're out of time anyway. Colleagues, we don't have a department of 105 people. [[The number of participants included the MPs Boris Yankov Yachev, Valentin Ivanov Radev, Georgi Tenev Stankov and Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev according to the supplementary list attached to the shorthand protocol and certified by the President.]] We'll continue tomorrow. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
