ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members. There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. [[There is a problem with the voting board of the MP Hamid Hamid.]] The Quaestors, please see what's with Mr. Hamid's console. There was a procedure for Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm making a procedural proposal... [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u3	Please, colleagues, for silence!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u4	...to move item 5th of the National Assembly's Work Programme for this week, namely the Second Voting of the Law on Supplement to the Law on the Judiciary. A joint draft, drawn up by the Committee on Legal Affairs on the basis of the draft laws adopted at the first vote on 16 July 2020, with an importer, the Council of Ministers, which is item four for today, will become the first item for today's plenary session.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u5	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Please vote on the procedure so made for changing the Programme. Vote 187 MPs: 126, against 54, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Alexandrova, I have some messages to read, and then I'll give you the floor. In the meantime, I'm asking you to see...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u6	Declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u7	Declaration? I'll give you the floor. Meanwhile, look at the desks of the coworkers who raised their hand that they have a problem. Please come in for an affidavit.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u8	Madam President, honourable Members! Today we did not register in the Chamber and I think we will continue to do so because we believe that this Parliament does not have any political logic and is completely meaningless. [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u9	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u10	There is a meeting today because of GERB and the United Patriarchs. [[Shouting, noise and lines from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u11	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u12	However, my declaration is devoted to something else. [[Replications from OP.]] My declaration is dedicated to what happened last night, because today I heard very interesting political interpretations, that it was a night of disgrace, that everything... [[Radio chatter and rhymes]] [[SIGHS]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u13	Colleagues! Colleagues! Colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u14	Please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u15	Yeah, wait a minute. Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u16	It was a night of disgrace, a night that showed no idea what lumbans were in the streets. [[Comments from GERB and OP.]] I cannot accept and will not accept the actions of 100 lumpens being attributed to the entire protest! [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]] Before what happened last night, in the square outside the parliament... [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u17	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u18	...there were 100,000 young people from all over the country who said clearly: [[strong noise and lines from GERB and OP]] [[Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria, shouts: "Bravo, bravo!" - loud cries from GERB and OP, banging on banks.]] By the way, one of the reasons why these people are gathered in the square is precisely this solipsism that you are exhibiting here, being self-closed in this reality, and thinking that banging at banks, you are expressing something. You're not expressing anything! [[Extending and continuous cries from GERB and OP.]] This power is now on the police shields. And worst of all, it's unfair to the police themselves! You can't put them as a line between you and the people! They can't defend you every night from the crap you do during the day! The people who gather are not lumpens! By the way, for a whole month I've been listening, 56 days we've been listening to how power is ready for dialogue, how it wants to talk to protesters. However, instead of an extended hand instead of dialogue, the protesters received words such as: "Monkeys", "stadosto", "lumpenni", "drunks", "alcoholics" and whatnot! [[Shouts from GERB and OP]] Is this the invitation to dialogue?! Those are the words that gave birth to violence! These are the words that have led you so far that only police batons protect you from folk love! [[Comments from GERB and OP.]] This is precisely why I and I, in a personal capacity, continue to support the efforts of the protesters to achieve the so desired of all resignations! By the way, there is also something very important? [[Comments from GERB and OP.]] That was supposed to calm people down. This turned out to be the drop of gasoline that passed the cup of patience. This heats up the passions, it's turning us into police hostages right now! Because if it isn't the police, there's no one to save you from folk love. And I say it not in the violent sense, but in the political sense of the word! [[Comments from GERB and OP.]] This parliament is meaningless! The majority is meaningless! A power that stands on police batons is a power hostile to its people. For this, please, get rid of these torments! Resign! [[(World and long applauses from BSP for ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Simov. Declaration on behalf of the group Mr. Bikov, come in. [[(Voices from BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u20	Madam President, honourable Members! [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u21	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u22	Over the past few days, there have been repeated calls from the organizers of the protest for violence, for crossing the verbal attacks and turning them into physical ones. On Sunday, one of the organizers of the protest urged the vinkels to come!? During the whole time, in the last few months President Radev has been calling for radicalisation of the protest. Yesterday, this radicalization happened. We have all seen the face of this radicalisation in these paid football campaign, which consists of representatives of the criminal contingent and who attacked not only the parliament building, but also the policemen who were trying to guard the public order. We are giving full support to the actions of the police yesterday. These people at risk for their lives and health have managed to keep order and prevent... the plan of those who organize these contestants. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] [[a line from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] We know who's behind the rabbles. [[(Replys from BSP for Bulgaria: Who? Who? Who?]] The one whose conversation we all heard...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u23	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u24	...obsessed with legitimate intelligence, and who said he could move people from one place to another. These were those people yesterday who were throwing bombs they wanted to kill. His name is Vassil Bozhkov! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria "Boyko," Borisov is said! "]] From now on, there are several political facts. President Rumen Radev is politically responsible... [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u25	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u26	...for what happened yesterday, throughout his entire set. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The organizers of the protest bear the technical responsibility and we will insist that their links with the criminal contingent be investigated, which had obviously interacted with them yesterday. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] Thirdly, after yesterday's excesses we will not resign, we stop this debate because if we do, it means that any next government can be deposed by representatives of the criminal world. [[Applause from GERB and OP]] [[Applause from GERB and OP]] This we will not allow, not because of the current government, but because of the next, the next and every next government that can be elected and downloaded only in this room, not on the street, not through paid campaign. [[Wurthy applause from GERB and OP.]] From now on, we are starting the debate on a Grand National Assembly and we expect every political power to express its arguments in this Chamber. This is an opportunity to restore political dialogue, which has been unable to find its place for several months. Because of President Radev's failure in terms of his functions as mediator of the political protest and of the Presidency, as a place where the interrupted political dialogue and recovery can take place, we believe that the only place where this dialogue can be restored is the Grand National Assembly. This is what happened in 1990 when Bulgarian democracy was born. We do not accept that this Parliament, which is legitimately elected and we are all legitimately elected here, has no legitimacy to convene a Grand National Assembly. I recall that the Thirty-Fiveth National Assembly, which called the last great parliament, had a much lower degree of legitimacy than the current simply because it was elected, there were only two parties in it. After it was able to convene a Grand National Assembly, every next Grand National Assembly has the right to debate this issue at least. Dear colleagues, let us all return the debate together to where it belongs. We categorically deny the President's thesis that the National Assembly is on the street. The National Assembly exists so as not to have the debate on the street. Because the debate on the street is being conducted with the funds we saw yesterday. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] That's where this debate always goes, and that's why the older democracies have invented the parliamentary form of government. I call on all of you, of course, and our parliamentary group, to make efforts to reassure our members and sympathizers, to return the policy to its normal form, so that we can ensure that Bulgaria's normal development is ensured as soon as possible. We still have challenges ahead of us. Thank you. [[Wurthy applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. Mr. Veselinov asked on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u28	Madam President, honourable Members! For us yesterday was the apotheosis of the policy of the burned bridges, I regret to hear today that we are opening our meeting in the same way. All that has been done months and years before, the reluctance to have a normal political dialogue, the desire to erosion at all of the political system in order to lose more, we less and in some way to get our hands on power has led to this. This does not benefit any parliamentary represented party, it benefits those who pretend to be out-of-system and who have previously been probably in parliament or wish to be. But in any case, these are the ulterior motives of all who are going around today's protests, although they have been repeatedly, say, in this Parliament some have been ministers, others have been in other positions of power. The institutions together form statehood and they have a common job. They should talk, not fight, because in this war the victim is not the representative of the designated institution, the victim is the national unity and at all the unity of society. It is not really important at today's stage who started first, but who will stop first and who will go the way to normalization. The protest, we know, began as a reaction of the people to something that was perceived as an invasion by one institution against another, but was gradually taken over, was simply turned into one political weapon of one another against another, simply into one of the tools of gaining power. All these mantras, which are extreme and whose sole purpose is to radicalize society, have as a motive only the hope of certain people to gain more and more power. If we allow this war to continue on both the institutions and the streets, then representative democracy and our function is absolutely meaningless. So, honourable Members who do not register, in my opinion, this is the wrong move, it is a move to the detriment of those who have declared that they are not registered. [[GERB's line]] They obviously see in this some deep politics and some deep way to draw on the energy of the protest. When we took an oath in this Parliament, we said that we would serve in the name of the people, and I think that part of this service is easy to humble our political, and personal ego, and to do things that we may not enjoy, are not in favor of our party, but are in favor of society as a whole. So my call is to all political parties for a normal dialogue, if necessary for a new round table. Because we talked about a Grand National Assembly, and it was preceded by a round table, which somehow reduced passions and brought dialogue into some frames. Let us think like statesmen to overcome all this negative energy that is generated by irresponsible political behavior. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. Mr. Tzipov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! My procedure, Madam President, is to invite the Minister of Interior to present information about everything that happened yesterday, in the evening, to be aware of both the MPs and the whole Bulgarian society what really happened yesterday. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. I'll inform the Home Secretary, let you know when he can come to parliament. Here you are, Mr. Svilensky, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Madam President! I also take the opportunity to make a procedure: by calling the Minister of Interior, to call the Prime Minister to come here too, to inform the Bulgarian MPs what is happening during these 56 days and how the Bulgarian government stands in power thanks to the shields and the batons of the police. [[Shouting from GERB: "Eee! "]] So we don't have to call in the interior ministers every month, who then resign or have been replaced, but come in the person responsible for all these protests, for all these police actions... [[GERB noise and lines]] [[Comments from GERB: "This is Radev! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u33	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. I understand your proposal. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u34	...and appear in plenary. My request is that you invite him most kindly to come, to see the new room and to explain what happened last night.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u35	I will invite the Home Secretary, who is in charge of order in the country.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u36	And the Prime Minister, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u37	Thank you. In the manner of conduct, please, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u38	Madam President, I ask you to read the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to see that when there is a procedure, the speaking time is not limited to your intellectual capacity to understand what is asked of this procedure... [[(Noise and lines from GERB: "Eee!" No, no! Apologize!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u39	Mr. Ermenkov, you're taking the liberty of insulting me!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u40	Madam President, I have praised you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u41	You're not the man to appreciate my intelligence! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u42	Madam President,...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u43	I expect you to behave properly in the National Assembly as a representative of the National Assembly! [[Comments from GERB: "Apologize! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u44	Madam President, I praised you if you noticed. I praised you that you were faster than Mr. Svilensky's argumentation found out what it was about. I don't know why you thought I was insulting you.! [[Noise and lines.]] This is what we're talking about. Mr. Svilenski came out...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u45	I understand very well what Mr. Svilensky said to me. I'll contact the Prime Minister and let you know.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u46	Mr. Svilensky was entitled to two minutes to argue his procedure and you didn't give him the opportunity. This is unacceptable! At some point he did not deviate from the argumentation of his procedural proposal and what you are doing, including my speech and my procedure, is an attempt to shut the mouth of the opposition and introduce a dictatorship of government here! Don't do it, because in this way, not only will you not calm the public, not only will you not convince us that you want dialogue, but you are doing everything you can to blow yourselves up! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u47	Mr. Ermenkov, I have always been extremely tolerant of the speeches of the MPs and I have even allowed over the time allowed to continue their speeches, so I absolutely do not accept your procedure in the manner of conduct. Draft and draft resolutions from 29 July 2020 to 1 September 2020 shall: A bill to amend and supplement the Penal Code. The importer is Polina Tsankova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It has been allocated to the Committee on Agriculture and Food. A bill to supplement the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. The importer is Honest Vesselinoff. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government and the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Report on the Commission's activities for the public oversight of registered auditors in 2019. Importer is the Commission for the public oversight of registered auditors. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act. The importer is Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Energy is the lead. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Security and Public Order, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Foreign Policy, the Committee on Education and Science and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Physical Education and Sports. The importer is Stefan Apostolov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Children, Youth and Sports is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. A bill to supplement the Labour Code. The importer is Julian Angelov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. It has been allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Draft decision to award state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian state and nation. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Committee on Culture and Media. Draft decision on a change in the composition of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. The importer is Daniela Daritkova. Draft decision on a change in the composition of the Committee on Agriculture and Food. The importer is Daniela Daritkova. Draft decision to complete the composition of the Commission for Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling. The importer is Daniela Daritkova. Draft decision to complete the composition of the Temporary Commission on the acquisition of the Bulgarian Development Bank with the respective capital shares of First Investment Bank. The importer is Dora Christova. Draft decision to complete the composition of the Committee on Culture and Media. The importer is Daniela Daritkova. Draft decision to complete the composition of the Energy Commission. The importer is Daniela Daritkova. Draft decision to complete the composition of the Committee on Policies of Bulgarians abroad. The importer is Daniela Daritkova. Annual Report of the Minister of Justice on the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in cases against the Republic of Bulgaria in 2019. It was distributed to the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. A bill to amend and supplement the Labour Code. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. It has been allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration. Importer is the National Association of Mayors of Mayors in the Republic of Bulgaria. Draft Decision on the introduction of a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020 with a view to the necessary measures to overcome the crisis of the CIVID-19 pandemic. Importers are Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Draft amending and supplementing the Ecommerce Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and to the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Draft Law on the ratification of the voluntary agreement between the European Commission and the Republic of Bulgaria for guarantees under art. 11 of Council Regulation (EC) No 2020/672 "European Temporary Support Instrument' in order to mitigate the risks of unemployment in exceptional circumstances due to the outbreak of COVID-19. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. A bill to amend and supplement the Penal Code. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. A bill to amend and supplement the liability law, overcome and eliminate environmental damage. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Environment and Water is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. It's a bill for Industrial Parks. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Energy, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Report of the Interdepartmental Commission on Export Control and Non-Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction to the Minister of Economy for 2019. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. A bill amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications is the lead. It has been allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft amending and supplementing the Election Code. The importer is Daniela Daritkova. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Reserve of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Education and Science, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Structure of the Area. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is the lead. It is assigned to the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. A bill to amend and supplement the Family Code. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports and the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Draft Law amending and supplementing the BULSTAT Register Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs, which is leading, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and the Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft amending and supplementing the Election Code. Importers are Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Legal Affairs. Messages: On 2 September 2020, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 September 2020 to 25 September 2020 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 September 2020 to 25 September 2020 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 September 2020 to 25 September 2020 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 September 2020 to 25 September 2020. 127 MPs from the parliamentary groups of GERB, the United Patriarchs, the Bulgarian Rhodolists and non-members of the parliamentary groups have submitted a draft Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and a draft decision to hold elections for the Grand National Assembly for the adoption of a new Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The projects are provided in electronic form to the MPs of their service e-mails. On 1 September 2020, the General Draft Laws amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code adopted at the first vote on 22 July 2020 were received and sent to the MPs. The draft was sent to the Commission on Legal Affairs on the basis of art. 81, para. Two of the subs. For the period from 1 August to 3 September 2020, the National Assembly received notifications from the Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister for Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria with an introduction. No 003-09-55 to 003-09-65 in accordance with art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces and in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. The materials are provided to the Defence Committee. On 30 July 2020, the National Assembly was provided, developed and adopted by the Economic Social Council on the topic: Problems of laying down and paying the night labor in Bulgaria. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was provided to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Health, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and was available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. The National Statistical Institute has received information about: consumer surveillance in July 2020; turnover indices in the section of the "Retails' without car and motorcycle trade in June 2020; indexes of industrial production in June 2020; indexes of construction production in June 2020; employed persons and average gross wage in the second quarter of 2020; gross domestic product in the second quarter of 2020; expert assessments; main results of labour force monitoring in the second quarter of 2020; inflation and consumer price indices in July 2020; preliminary data; economic conjuncture in August 2020; indexes of producer prices in the domestic and international industry market for July 2020. The materials are available to the national representatives in the Library of the National Assembly. Mr. Chenchev, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, honored guests! Madam President, I appeal to you with two very well-intentioned calls. Yesterday in his speech at the inauguration of the new session you said that some symbols will be removed from the facade of this building. I call you an hour rather to order you to add a symbol of the facade of this building, namely the inscription from that building: My second call to you is to explain to the people's representation, respectively to the Bulgarian citizens who are following the meeting, why the Council of Ministers is meeting online and we are in the Chamber and working in the presence regime. Explain, because otherwise we'll think it's related to the protests and the fear of the Prime Minister going into the triangle of power personally and physically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. I join your call for the inscription on the National Assembly from the Square of the National Assembly to move here. This will be done. I've already ordered it. [[Radio and lines.]] A new one, of course. We're not moving him.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u50	Just don't mess up the word and get up the power makes the call.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u51	It's a very good idea. We're going to have this inscription here, too. Let's continue with: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW OF JUSTICE. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u52	Madam President, honourable Members! On 16 July 2020, on the first vote, the Draft Law supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, No 002-01-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 June 2020, and the Draft Law supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, No 002-01-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 July 2020. The Law on the Judicial Authority's Supplement to the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Proposed by MP Hamid Hamid Hamid. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... Article 28 Art. 28 (1) Upon expiry of the term of office or early termination of the term of office on the basis of art. 130, para. 8, p. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the elected member of the Supreme Judicial Council, who applied to the relevant College within 14 days of the date of expiry or early termination of the term of office, shall be restored to the position of Judge, Prosecutor or Investigator held before the election or to an equal extent. An elected member of the Supreme Judicial Council, which meets the requirements of art. 164 and in the case of a positive complex assessment.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 19-20, may be appointed to a post of one degree higher than the pre-election position of the judicial authorities. The time during which the person was a member of the Supreme Judicial Council shall be regarded as an internship under art. 164, para. 1 "7.."........................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u53	Statements, coworkers? Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Let me get this straight for the record: I really wanted to register this morning, guys. I couldn't. You all saw it. Madam President, I ask that we provide conditions for the MPs to register in the morning, because a new building with old devices is not being built. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u55	There will be new ones, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u56	Let's go back to the proposal under the Judicial Law. Honourable Members, with a proposal to amend art. 28 of the Law on the Judiciary, we are proposing that the legislator has, in this text, come very far forward by imperatively binding and ordering the Supreme Judicial Council on expiry of the term of office of the members or early termination of their term of office to appoint them one degree above. We believe that this is contrary to the rules governing the functioning of the independent judiciary when, in the judiciary, the SJC with the criteria it adopts to assess whether or not a magistrate meets the requirements for taking up that position. That is why we replace this imperative provision of the words........................................................................................................ can be That is the point of our proposal. I have bothered to see the motives of the latest current editing. This is exactly what the importers had in mind in their motives, but why, perhaps because of a technical error or something else, the current text has been admitted. The text also aligns the regime of the members of the SJC with the members of the Inspectorate of the SJC. Please support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u57	Thank you, dear Mr. Hamid. - What's the line? I can't see. Statements? Here you are, Mr. Zarkov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today's meeting began with a debate: does it make sense to parliament and when it is transferred to the street? It moves on the street when the conversation in it revolves around or around nonsense, or no one just listens to what the other one says. We're looking at a law that's indicative of that. Two laws on the judiciary were introduced by the Council of Ministers months ago with two correct motives and two correct decisions to create two information systems for the judicial execution and a single register of property persons respectively. As part of the necessary measures, they were supported. Now, at second reading § 1 treats a completely different question, a question which has been dealt with many times and always with scandal. It's about art. 28 of the Law on the Judiciary, which governs what, where and in what position will the members of the Supreme Judicial Council work when they have completed their term of office as representatives of the Board of Directors. You know that some of the reforms in the last 30 years have made the Supreme Judicial Council a permanent body. The magistrates who sit in it shall cease to be such and the matter which shall be settled by art. 28, is: to what position in the hierarchy of the judiciary they will return after having completed their term of office. As early as 2007, the decision was found and it was perfectly logical, namely: they returned to the position they previously held. They have made their own choices, knowing the rules, leaving their magistrate's career, ending it for four years, serving at the Supreme Judicial Council and returning to where they came from and continuing their careers. Nobody's forcing them. Over the years, this text has been amended four or five times always in the direction of the so-called career bonus, namely: when they return, they are rewarded, to be uploaded with a post. This was evolving until we got to last year when this one The bonus was strengthened on a proposal of GERB MPs with the support of the MPs from DPS and was created. You remember the big debate about the career bonus and this kind of award. What's Mr. Hamid doing now? They realized their mistake, he went back, explaining that this could not be an automatic thing that we were pointing out at the time that this should be a problem of debate. And it proposes not to automatically be this bonus, but to be at the discretion of the Departmental Authority of the SJC itself. What's the problem? First of all, I doubt it's about realizing the original problem why this career bonus is harmful. Rather, it is a reaction to the request of the Supreme Court of Cassation of 27 May this year, with which they claim that this text is unconstitutional with very serious motives, one of which is that the National Assembly cannot seize the functions of appointment and promotion, and another worse is that the National Assembly, or rather, to be honest, the majority in it with the amendments adopted from March last year, has violated the specific authority and prestige of the judiciary. These arguments were then put forward by us and were not heard. One more thing. By giving power to the Supreme Judicial Council to decide where and in what position the colleagues who have been sitting between them for the past four years will work, not only is the problem not fixed, it is deepening. Because if now the career automatic legal bonus has been viewed as a reward for faithful service, there will now be a reward, but also a punishment for those members of the Supreme Judicial Council who have allowed themselves over the years to express a thesis other than the majority, which will decide at the end. Therefore, I and the BSP parliamentary group propose that this text be rejected, that you take full responsibility for the adoption of the previous text, and it will be taken over by the decision of the Cassation Court on its unconstitutionality. And when the Constitutional Court confirms the obvious, this text should be cancelled and return to normality, which is: when someone has decided to be a judicial officer, to carry out this highly responsible activity, then to continue their magistrate's career where they left it voluntarily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u59	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Thank you for being punctual 4 minutes and 59 seconds. - What's the line? Mr. Hamid, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Zarkov, in these four minutes you have made enough arguments to support this proposal, that is, how the text in force was wrong and took this opportunity from the SJC, you said that we were taking a step back or we realized a mistake. I do not understand the conclusion of your speech.............. to not be supported, to be rejected. In other words, you have put forward far more arguments than I myself to support this proposal. I'm not familiar with the request for unconstitutional, I don't know whether such a solution exists or not, I'm not aware of whether there is an open case, but I think about texts that are open unconstitutional, we'll talk at the next point, not in this one. In a moment you will hear really unconstitutional texts that are worth changing to law, because when the Constitution provides rights and the law denies them, it is scary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u61	Thank you, dear Mr. Hamid. Second line? I can't see. A hole, Mr. Zarkov, will there be? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u62	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Hamid, thank you for the line. I believe that you do not need further arguments to support your proposals. Practice shows that your proposals are usually accepted. Unlike over 102 bills that we have tabled. The success rate, especially in the part of the judiciary, is in your favor. With regard to my proposal, I think it is more appropriate to rule on the Constitutional Court, because it will finally bring clarity on this very painful subject, which is periodically being passed and is quite conjunctually changing precisely art. 28, which creates doubts, and it is justified that it is not about realizing a mistake, but just about another conjunctural change.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u63	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova, for your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u64	Madam President, honourable Members! My speech is a proposal for an editorial amendment in the name of the Law to become the Law for amendment and supplement of the Law on the Judiciary. I am making an editorial amendment in the title, in the name of the Law instead of the Law on the Supplement to the Law on the Judiciary, to read the Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Judiciary. Mr. Zarkov wants a separate vote on the Law and paragraphs.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u65	I put to the vote the editorial amendment to the name of the Law. Vote 108 MPs: for 100, against none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law with the corresponding editorial amendment that we adopted just now. Vote 104 MPs: 95 against 3, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the created new § 1. They voted 101 MPs: 91, against 3, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u66	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1, which shall become § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 which shall become § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 5. "Previous and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u67	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4, which shall become paragraphs 2, 3, 4 and 5, respectively, and the text of the importer for the name of the subdivision. 110 MPs voted: 103, against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u68	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... Within 6 months of the entry into force of this law: 1.The Council of Ministers shall accept the amendments and additions to Tariff No 1 to the Law on State Fees, the fees collected by the courts, prosecution, investigation services and the Ministry of Justice resulting from this Law. 2. The Minister of Justice shall issue the ordinance under art. 360u, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u69	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u70	Thank you, Madam President! Once again, I have an editorial proposal: in § 8 the words.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u71	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the version of § 5, which shall become § 6 of the Commission Report; the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 7; § 7, which shall become § 8. Voted 103 MPs: 99, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the editorial amendment of § 8, which made Mrs. Alexandrova; They voted 106 MPs: 99, none, abstentioned 7. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 9 with the corresponding editorial amendment which we voted on a short time ago. They voted 105 MPs: 99, against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. We continue with the next item on the agenda: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE COUNTERPARTIES OF THE CODEX OF THE SELECTED CODEX. Importers: DANIELA DARITEKA AND GROUP OF PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES ON 17 AUGUST 2020; MUSTAFA CARADYE, HAMID HAMID AND AHMED AHMEDOV ON 28 AUGUST 2020 Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe For the first vote Regarding the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code, No 054-01-85, submitted by Daniela Atanasova Daritkova, Prodanova and a group of MPs on 17 August 2020 and the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code, No 054-01-86, submitted by Mustafa Sali Karadayi, Hamid Bari Hamid and Ahmed Rexhebov Ahmedov on 28 August 2020. At its meeting held on 1 September 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code, No 054-01-85, submitted by Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova and a group of Members of Parliament on 17 August 2020 and the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code, No 054-01-86, submitted by Mustafa Sali Karadayi, Hamid Bari Hamid and Ahmed Rexhebov Ahmedov on 28 August 2020. Mrs. Biljana Stojkova, Head of Legal Affairs and Law of the European Union and Mrs. Veselin Mladenov, Head of the Security Police Department at the Directorate General of the National Police; from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: Mr. Vasil Durev, Head of the Board of Directors and Executive Director; from the Department of Legal Management: Mr. Atanas Temelkov, Mr. Mariana Colorkova, Director of the Board of Directors, Mr. Ivaylo Filipov, Head of the Board of Directors and Executive Director, Mr. Atanas Temelkov. The draft amendment and supplement to the Election Code, No 054-01-85, was presented by Mrs. Alexandrova, who pointed out that it proposes the introduction of machine voting in all sections of the country, with the exception of polling stations with less than 300 voters, polling stations in hospitals, old people's homes and other specialized institutions for the provision of social services, polling stations of vessels under Bulgarian flag, polling stations outside the country and when voting by mobile electoral box. There is an opportunity for every Bulgarian citizen to choose for himself the way he wants to exercise his right to vote by voting machine or paper ballot. It is envisaged that the audit, testing and certification of voting devices will be carried out by the State Agency of Electronic Management and jointly with representatives of the Bulgarian Institute of Standardization and the Bulgarian Institute of Metrology. The Bill introduces a ban on the formation of polling stations outside the country in the event of termination or cessation of activities of the external representation, as well as in the presence of an opinion from the head of the external representation not to form a polling section in the diplomatic or consular representation located in the territory of a country in a military crisis or armed conflict. Ms. Alexandrova pointed out that there is a direct award of the computer processing of the data from the voting of the Ministry of Information and the issue of a newsletter with the results of the elections. She pointed out that in the competitions for the award of the computer processing of voting data in the last 10 years there has been a single participant in the company. Ms. Alexandrova noted that this practically led to the proposal for legislative change and the provision of art. No. 209, para. 1 of the Election Code, which similarly regulates the printing of paper ballots by the printing company of the Bulgarian National Bank, which is a joint stock company registered under the Commercial Law. Observers are proposed to be able to attend, except when receiving electoral papers and materials and when preparing voting rooms, also when putting technical machinery voting devices in order to ensure publicity and transparency at all stages of the electoral process. Amendments are also proposed to facilitate the filling of the protocols and to ease the work of the members of the sectional election committees. The Bill establishes a new chapter in the Election Code, which introduces a mixed electoral system in the conduct of elections for the Grand National Assembly. 200 MPs are scheduled to be elected on the proportional electoral system with registered candidate lists of parties and coalitions and initiative committees in multi-manded electoral areas, and 200 MPs to be elected in one-manded electoral districts according to a majority electoral system. It is proposed that, after the election day has ended with regard to machine voting, the selection committees should compare the data reported by the machine voting technical device with the printed control receipt placed in the special machine voting box. It is envisaged that in the event of an exceptional epidemic situation in the country the election day may be extended to 48 hours and that the time limits related to the reporting of the election results will be extended in proportion to the period of extension of the election day. An addition to the Criminal Code is proposed in order to align the provisions relating to active and passive electoral bribery, providing for punishment for persons who have requested or received property benefit to exercise their selective right not only for the benefit of a particular candidate but also for the benefit of a political party or coalition. The draft amendment and supplement to the Election Code, No 054-01-86, was presented by Mr Hamid, who pointed out that it aims to restore the rules for the formation of polling stations outside the country, which acted in 2014 and 2015, which will contribute to an increase in turnout among the Bulgarian communities in Western Europe and North America. The bill creates the possibility for the election campaign to be conducted in another language, but after providing translation in Bulgarian. Changes to the electoral lists and lists of deleted persons shall be proposed in respect of persons who have a current address at the date of drawing up the electoral lists in a non-member country. The requirement to settle in the implementation of passive selective law in elections to the European Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria and in elections to municipal councillors and mayors is proposed, as well as in the implementation of active selective law in elections to municipal councillors and mayors. The bill provides for preferences for individual candidates for MPs, members of the European Parliament and municipal councillors to be determined according to the regional electoral quota, the national electoral quota and the municipal electoral quota respectively. Online monitoring is also envisaged throughout the election day, including when counting votes and drawing up protocols, but in a way that does not violate the secret of the vote. All guests and MPs Yordan Tsonev, Hristian Mitev and Krum Zarkov took part in the discussion, who said they would not support proposals from Mrs Daritkova and a group of MPs Bill. Mr. Tsonev said that Draft Law No 054-01-85 did not solve major problems in the electoral process and the proposed texts are controversial. He pointed out that the responsibility for the supply of voting machines and their certification, as well as the establishment of the standard of software, lies with the Council of Ministers. Mr. Zarkov pointed out that Mrs. Daritkova's proposal lacks clarity on a number of issues and the return of the paper ballot to the electoral process will make machine voting meaningless. Mr. Mitev said he opposes the creation of special rules for the election of the Grand National Assembly and pointed out that the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria provides for such elections in general order. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs: - with 11 votes in favour, 9 votes in favour and without abstentions, he proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill for amendment and supplement of the Election Code, No 054-01-85, submitted by Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova and a group of MPs on 17 August 2020; - with 2 votes "for", 8 votes against........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Opinion on behalf of the
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I will present to your attention the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code submitted by Dr. Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The legislative initiative, colleagues, is dictated by the request of many citizens, political forces, parties and non-governmental organisations to hold a machine vote. With the amendment we propose, we preserve the spirit and philosophy of the Code, giving each Bulgarian citizen the opportunity to choose for himself the way he wants to exercise his right to vote by means of a machine vote or a paper ballot. We propose that the engine vote be held only in the elections for President and Vice President of the Republic of Bulgaria, for the elections of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria, the elections for the European Parliament by delivering machines in each electoral section with more than 300 voters in a polling section, in medical institutions, old people's homes and services, specialized institutions for providing social services, in polling stations for vessels under Bulgarian flag and in polling stations outside the country. We introduce the audit, testing and certification of voting devices to be carried out by the State Agency of Electronic Management and jointly with representatives of the Bulgarian Institute for Standardization and of the Bulgarian Institute of Meteorology. We propose the introduction of direct commissioning of computer processing of voting data, issuing of ballots with the result of the elections of During the last 10 years, colleagues, in the competition for the award of computer processing of voting data, the only participant was the trading company. In practice, this led us to the idea of legislative change, taking advantage of the provision of art. No. 209, para. 1 of the Election Code, where the printing of paper ballots by the printing company of the Bulgarian National Bank, which is also a joint stock company registered under the Commercial Law, is similarly regulated. We also propose the introduction of a ban on the formation of polling stations outside the country in the event of termination or cessation of activities of the external representation, as well as in the presence of an opinion from the head of the external representation not to form a polling section in a diplomatic or consular representation located in the territory of a country in a military crisis or armed conflict. We believe that it is inappropriate and, at the same time, dangerous for citizens' security to form polling stations in such countries. Until now, the Central Election Commission has taken Adhok decisions, there is no established permanent practice, so we aim to create an explicit legislative provision in such cases. With the bill, we aim, colleagues, to achieve disclosure and simplification of the protocol and facilitate the work of the members of the sectional election committees in order not to make mistakes in completing the electoral protocols. As an example, we will give the abolition of the Code of Elections' allocation of invalid votes on candidate lists, which will simplify the protocol, will overcome the unnecessary delay of the committees in completing the protocols and announcing the election results. We also propose that, in the case of an extension of the epidemiological situation, the election day should be extended to 48 hours, and that the deadlines related to the reporting of election results should be extended in proportion to the duration of the extension of the election day. We propose to create a new chapter in the Election Code of the Grand National Assembly, which introduces a mixed electoral system. This provision, colleagues, existed in a law which was repealed in 2015 and the Election Code currently does not have a chapter which regulates the election of MPs for a Grand National Assembly. It is we who propose to create this chapter, with the elections being held by a mixed electoral system and 200 MPs being elected by a proportional electoral system registered in multi-manded electoral areas, in candidate lists of parties and coalitions and promoted by initiative committees. And the other 200 MPs to be elected by majority electoral system in one-sided electoral districts, as was the election for the last Grand National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria. We propose that, after the election day has ended when the engine vote is taken into account, the selection committees should compare the recorded data from the machine voting technical device with the printed control receipt placed in a special machine voting box to ensure transparency and integrity of the elections. In the Criminal Code, colleagues, we also propose an addition to aligning the provisions relating to an active and passive electoral bribe for the exercise of electoral law for the benefit of a particular political party or coalition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u76	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Opinion on behalf of the importer for the second bill. I give the floor to Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u77	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, Members of the National Assembly! I present to your attention the bill that we are submitting once again the fourth or fifth, and we state that we will continue to submit it until these texts are adopted. We believe that these texts are particularly important for guaranteeing, observing and exercising constitutionally anchored rights in the Bulgarian Constitution. For a whole month we have been talking about a new Constitution, and what new Constitution, honourable Members, when the National Assembly adopts laws and amendments to laws that directly violate the current Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria? We have tabled three groups of proposals in this direction. We believe that the text which introduces a ban on agition in a language other than the Bulgarian one in the electoral process is unconstitutional. This is not only our finding, this is contained in numerous reports of various missions and various organisations of the Council of Europe. For five years and more they all recommend to the Bulgarian state and to the Bulgarian Parliament to remove this unconstitutional text. We are aware that the Bulgarian language is the official language in the Republic of Bulgaria and we approach it with due respect, so our proposal contains an obligation to anyone who performs agitation in a language other than the Bulgarian language to provide translation in the official Bulgarian language. There is no way this text can be understood by the entire democratic community around the world. I just want to remind you of how she discovered her campaign for the President of the United States. Mrs. Hillary Clinton. She opened her campaign in Mexican. [[Reply from MP Julian Angelov.]] Nobody said anything about that. No one showed respect for the guests of the various groups of European families, who could congratulate in the election campaign the parties to which they are attending. [[Applause was given to the MPs from GERB who entered the Chamber Minister of Interior Hristo Terziyski.]] No one has shown respect for all those Bulgarian citizens for whom the constitutional provision guarantees the right to study and use their mother tongue. It has happened here to receive echidical cues: "What if you think this text is unconstitutional, refer it to the Constitutional Court. " Yes, we may not have 48 MPs in this Parliament. We are with 25 people, but in the next, you can be sure that we will have 48. And when we talk about a new Constitution, a number of institutions are talking about fundamental rights, about filing constitutional complaints. How is it that none of the particularly active have been found lately to refer this matter to the Constitutional Court? How is it that the High Council of Law, who has that right, does not use it for such an important matter? How is it that in the otherwise numerous speeches of the Head of State on human rights there is no word on this issue? Another such text, honourable Members, is the text that regulates the so-called sedentary. I say this is what is called the "Seated" because this is not sedentary. This is a waiver of the right to vote by Bulgarian citizens, the constitutionally binding right to vote. There's seclusion all over the world, but the seclusion settles where there is and where there is no right to vote one person. Our Election Code governs only where there is no right and thus leads to an absolute inability for millions of Bulgarian citizens around the world not to be able to vote! Of course, the motives of the importers are clear at the time because of a group of Bulgarian citizens living in the Republic of Turkey to be prevented from the electoral process. With this ban, you do not allow the election process and millions that are in Western Europe and North America. That is, your European approach is: I do not want to be well, but to be ill for Wutte. This leads, colleagues, and the next text, which limits and limits the opening of sections outside the Republic of Bulgaria and the territory of the European Union. By limiting the number of sections in these countries, you are denying the right to vote millions of citizens who pay their taxes in Bulgaria, citizens who, according to everyone, are the largest investor in the Republic of Bulgaria, who send billions of levs each year to the national budget and to their relatives. We therefore believe that these proposals will sooner or later be supported perhaps by a majority that has little pό European views, for which the words "Citizens for European Development" have some content and some meaning. We also propose a text to begin a debate on the threshold of the Preference when it is valid, because under the current thresholds the Preference did not meet and did not justify the hopes for which it was introduced, but became a tool for corporate vote and controlled one. Thanks to this preference, hundreds of thousands of invalid ballots appeared in the minutes, which may constitute an average parliamentary group in the Bulgarian Parliament. Moreover, in many municipalities and municipal councils, the preference gave corporate players the opportunity to have their representatives in different political groups and allowed the dictation of several small families to whole political organizations to take place.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u78	Time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u79	I'm done, Madam President. Therefore, honourable Members, I appeal to you to support our proposals and to begin a debate on the issues put forward, because these are the main constitutional issues, the main issues that do not tolerate delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u80	Thank you, dear Mr. Hamid. - What's the line? I can't see. We'll cut off the debate on this point. [[DPS lines.]] Do we have a procedure or not? Mr. Ivanov was first...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u81	It's an importer's opinion!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u82	Was that an importer's opinion? Excuse me. I'm sorry, Mr. Hamid, because I entered the process when you were speaking. I'll give you the floor later, colleagues. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u83	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I propose that the forthcoming procedure for the submission of information by the Interior Minister Mr. Terziyski should be broadcast on BNT 2 and BNR. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u84	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Please vote on Mr. Ivanov's procedure. 140 MPs voted: 137, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please turn on BNT 2 cameras and BNR microphones.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u85	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u86	Mr. Svilensky has a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! This is the second time I have made a procedure to invite the Prime Minister to inform us on this subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u88	Both Radev and Radev!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u89	We've been sitting for two hours. I see the Home Secretary is here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u90	Let Radev come and explain!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u91	Let the Prime Minister also come to the MPs to say what is happening in the country and what is its responsibility. [[Arrival in GERB.]] The second procedure that I would like to do, Madam President, is the hearing of the Minister for the Interior and also of the Prime Minister, when he comes, to be with the opportunity of the Members of the National Assembly to ask questions. [[Arrival in GERB.]] Because the journalists, as we all know, are gathered downstairs in a room they do not know what is happening in this room. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Members of the National Assembly will not be able to ask, and we will be turned into some listeners of what the government thinks is going on in the country and not put real questions. In other words, my procedure is to have the opportunity of the Bulgarian MPs to ask the important questions that interest the public and to the Minister of Interior and to the Prime Minister if he dares to come to this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u92	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Regarding the way of hearing there are clearly written rules in our Rules, so nothing prevents you from taking advantage of them.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u93	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u94	One more procedure please, Mr. Zarkov. [[Reply from the National Representative Krasimir Velchev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u95	We don't just want to hear it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u96	Zarkov, are you going to invite Radev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u97	Colleagues, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u98	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I call you respectable, although you've been throwing lines that don't talk about mutual respect. I am taking a procedure, Madam President, because you have not taken into account the second question which Mr Svilenski put in relation to the hearing procedure and the work of the Bulgarian Parliament. Since yesterday, there has been serious tensions, including official positions of people defending freedom of speech, and journalistic organizations who are not satisfied with the way their work is organised in the new building of the National Assembly. The fact that journalists are not free to move freely around the building and ask their questions cannot be replaced by the inclusion of the program BNT 2 [[GERB noise and lines]] when you decide it's convenient.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u99	Quiet, please, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u100	Therefore, I ask you to take an attitude on this issue as well as to allow questions to be asked both to ministers and to MPs. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u101	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u102	We're almost there.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u103	This hall was not constructed by me.. not me, the administration and the contractor have implemented the project on which it is set to function. So I have nothing more to say to you about this. [[Noise and lines.]] What is it, Mr. Chenchev? Don't you want to hear the current information Minister Terziyski will give us? Here you go. [[Comments from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u104	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Madam President, I address you as soon as the Minister will be heard by the National Assembly regarding last night's events.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u105	He's gonna give up information. He's not gonna be heard.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u106	Since, I suppose, no one in this room, nor the honourable journalists, would like to hear only dry statistics, unfortunately, for victims of protesters and injured police officers, please call on the Minister not to take part in the role as his previous colleagues in this position, of a statistician of information already contained in the media. [[Noise and lines from GERB. The chairman's shutting down the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u107	Mr. Chenchev, let's give the opportunity to hear what the Minister will tell us and then you will take the attitude, but there is no way we can work on the procedure Mr. Svilensky proposed.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u108	...to familiarize the National Assembly with who ordered what last night's protests, who ordered... [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]] Let's hear what the minister has to say. He might have exactly the data he's going to introduce us to.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u110	He's not gonna give up that data.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u111	Have a seat. You don't know what kind of data the minister's going to be carrying.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u112	I'm sure he won't give up that data. And you wouldn't know.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u113	Fellow journalists have monitors in the room where they are located in the same way they worked in the old National Assembly. Mr. Terziysky, please give us the details of what happened on the 2nd of September of the evening.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u114	Madam President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! On 2 September 2020, two events were held in Sofia Municipality, one of which was not agreed in full, as well as other illegal events. In relation to the protests held to ensure public order in the conduct of these events in the Sofia Directorate of Home Affairs, a plan was drawn up. Since the early hours of the morning there has been a gathering of people who have settled in the area of the National Assembly building. After 9:00 a.m., the vast crowd has begun to be aggressive towards police officers ensuring the protection of public order in this area. Some of the protesters citizens began to throw multiple items and bombs at law enforcement officers. They tried to damage police cars, pulled out yellow pavements and used against police officers, and then straw was spilled in front of them and an attempt was made to set it on fire. Then part of the protesters was used and sprayed to the police officers themselves. By 2 p.m. yesterday, 36 persons were detained for disorderly conduct. Around 18.30 p.m. in the area of the square "Independence" a crowd of people began to gather, as some of them showed aggression, began to throw against police officers guarding the public order in the capital city, a number of man-made means of improvised explosive devices, chemical gases, were thrown with all kinds of hard objects, such as bottles, stones, chairs, benches, bicycles, trotinets, road signs, flags, transparants, signs, etc. After escalating the pressure, police officers had to react. After these hours of passiveness and tactical action, they used their tactical actions to break up and push the crowd together to restore public order. Following a review of the day's videos, it was found that dangerous objects were stored in palace camps and that, as a result, actions were taken at 3:00 on 3 September 2020 to remove the blockades of intersections and separate palace camps. [[Applause.]] A total of 126 people were detained during the protests for the various anti-social events, 62 of which had criminal activities. Of all detained persons 35 have a permanent and current address outside Sofia. 16 rapid proceedings have been initiated as follows: 12 for a crime committed under art. 325 of the Code of Penalty.. hooliganism; one of them has also carried out a second composition of a crime under art. 131 of the Penal Code for minor bodily harm to a police officer and four quick procedures for committing a crime under art. 216 of the Criminal Code.. damage to foreign property. 80 employees of the Ministry of Interior have been injured. They were transported as follows: three people at the hospital of Pirogov, 23 at the Medical Institute of the Ministry of Interior, 13 at the hospital of Tsaritsa Ioanna and 41 were examined on the spot. The employees have the following injuries: fracture of limbs, traumatic injuries and injuries, chemical burns from the pyrotechnics and gassing. Madam President, allow me from the National Assembly stands to thank all the officers, their commanders and their leaders for not allowing blood to be shed and all provocations to be mastered! Thank you. [[Extreme applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u115	Thank you, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u116	Tell me one thing that's not in the media!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u117	Just for Mr. Chenchev's information about what rights journalists have in this National Assembly. They have monitors, they have the opportunity to get information here at any time, from the hall where they have cameras and reporters. They may at any time declare their desire to receive information to the public of the individual parliamentary groups. You too have the right to be there for them whenever you want, you can look for them, we have a place where statements are made. So there is nothing different from what was introduced in the front room for the purpose of the epidemiological situation, and in general, as is done in the European Parliaments. Mr. Ivanov, please come in for a procedure. Please stop the cameras on BNT 2 and on Bulgarian National Radio.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u118	Why would they stop them?! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u119	Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u120	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! In the manner of conduct, Madam President. Madam President, when you admitted this hearing procedure to the Minister, we expected to hear from him...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u121	Presentation of information, not hearing!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u122	... we expected to hear from him not this information which came out in the media and is publicly available, but to hear what the Ministry of Interior really did, especially whether it fulfilled its commitments under the Ministry of Interior Act, art. 6, para. 1, t. 7 and 8, exactly control and prevention? Did the Ministry of Interior do what was necessary to overcome these clashes last night? Because we have heard all kinds of information from both the Director of the Sofia Directorate and the Secretary General that there is prior information about the prepared provocations of the protest. What did the Ministry of Interior do? Did he attempt to thwart them because they know who this criminal contingent is to prevent these clashes from happening last night? This is what we wanted to hear from the National Assembly today. Please enter into your commitments as President, so that the Minister can give us this information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u123	Mr. Ivanov, I and Mr. Svilenski said that there is a duly written order in the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Please take advantage if you really want to hear in detail all that you want. The Minister... [[Noise and lines.]] The procedure was a procedure for giving information, not a hearing. That I can answer on your subject. Mr. Svilensky's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u124	Mrs. Chairman! Indeed the procedure is written in the Rules, but it is written for a normal atmosphere, for a normal state with normal government and is then worked on this procedure. [[Shouting from GERB: "Eee! "]] When the state and people are on the street, when there is opposition between power and people, the situation is not normal and the procedure is not normal. And it was not normal for the Vice-President of the National Assembly to come down and escort the Interior Minister, who was ready to stay and answer the questions of the opposition, the government. Because we have not heard from these 126 detained people how normal, calmly protesting citizens who have fallen within the scope of the operations that the Ministry of Interior carried out and how many provocators brought by GERB to corrupt this event. [[(Shouting from GERB:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u125	Mr. Svilensky!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u126	That's what we expected to hear, Madam President!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u127	Well, if you're expecting it, do the procedure, Mr. Svilensky...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u128	The vault, the vault... Madam President!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u129	...and don't trample the rules! [[Noise and lines.]] Why don't you want to follow the rules?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u130	Madam President, keep your nerves down. I try to follow the rules, but when the Bulgarian people are on the street and the power is based on the shields of the police, there is no way everything can go according to the rules, scheduled, I told you about a normal situation and a normal state! We, the MPs, should be the ones to be able to tell people what's going on out of these 126 detainees, how by chance they got, because we saw young girls, young women being held, released, that's what we wanted to hear. Otherwise, all Bulgarian citizens heard it at 8:00 a.m. this morning. The statistical report: how many provocators were brought in, who brought them, who sent them, what was the purpose of these provocators? To use the police to clear the entire peaceful protest. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u131	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u132	So, Madam President, the procedure is for you...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u133	Mr. Svilensky, the weather!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u134	Your time is up!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u135	Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, [[Noise and lines.]] Your time is up, fellow Members! [[Noise and lines.]] Your time is up and we're waiting for the Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u136	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. We are continuing our debate on item two on the agenda. Here you are, Mr. Rashidov, for a statement. [[Presidents change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u137	Dear Mr. Chairman! Colleagues, I have a feeling that you really don't see what's going on, what happened last night, and you're talking from here, without even realizing that it wasn't the police throwing rocks, gas, but the protesters throwing rocks at the gas cops. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u138	Are you here for a procedure or a speech to know what we're doing? [[GERB's reply: "Speech. "]] A statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u139	Second of all, let me tell you what happened last night. [[Noise and lines.]] What happened last night during another protest initiated and provoked by an imposted trio, which are the sons of the heavy nomenclature of Communist... [[noise and lines]] [[Noise and lines.]] Don't worry, I'll tell you who they are next! [[Applause from GERB.]] We have witnessed uncontrolled ugly, outrageous aggression towards the Bulgarian police, whose main job is to ensure the law and order in the country. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] More than 50 days Bulgarian police officers are in a passive position...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u140	Wait! Colleagues, we've had enough pressure on these Rules from all sides.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u141	...pushing teeth against pavement, crap, against the sputums and gassing of the peaceful protesters. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Gokov.]] Colleague, a little quieter and more polite! [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Gokov.]] You're nothing to me. And keep it down! Aah! [[Noise, lines, applause]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u142	Mr. Rashidov, please! Continue your statement on the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u143	Last night the border was crossed, colleagues. Dozens of wounded policemen were in hospital corridors. Unnecessary aggression and exhilaration of a primitive part of the paid protest! They subjected the Bulgarian police to extreme humiliation. Bulgarian policemen deserve the respect of all Bulgarians for their dignified behavior! I was struck by the removal of tents to see a view from which one can only experience disgusting bottles of alcohol... [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Gokov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u144	Okay, Mr. Gokov, I'll answer you after that. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Gokov.]] I understand...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u145	...scattered and broken bottles, dirt, homemade bombs, pogrom. You get the feeling that everything else lived there, but not people. All night the municipal officials of Sofia Municipality were forced to clean this disgusting view, to try to rebuild the ruined pavements in Sofia's historic center, to return the illegally stolen buckets and the benches stolen from the parks in their places. We are witnessing a 24-hour work of doctors and medical staff of Pyrogov there I have connections, ISUL, Military Hospital, to help the victims. All this costs dearly to the Bulgarian taxpayers, not to people who stand on the Bulgarian streets for 50 days, unknown what they do. Irresponsibility easily destroys, and it is a responsibility to recover! That is why I appeal to the authorities, the Sofia Municipality, to give the bill for all expenses related to the protests, blockades and emergency medical care provided to the Bulgarian police to be handed over to the initiators of these illegal riots! This account is entirely on the back, under the responsibility of the organizers "that talentless and irresponsible trio," because the state and municipal property belongs to all Bulgarian citizens and it is inviolable. And for the violation of the Bulgarian police officers, I propose that the state and the police sue the irresponsible trio. It is due when I take an action, to know that it also takes responsibility for this action. In my experience, the easiest thing to do is spit and destroy at the expense of what you create. And as for the so-called Trio, I don't know what else they could brag about. These are people who only became known for denial and spitting. In our country, with such behavior, we quickly gain popularity. Finally, the President and his genius in quotes the replica "Muthrie," outside!................ which gave him false self-love, then last night's vakhanalia, which the President went through with his hand up.... has clearly shown where the mugs are reaching for the Bulgarian statehood and the Bulgarian policemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u146	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. Colleagues, when we crucify the Rules of Procedure, let's at least make it elegant.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u147	Is that how we're supposed to do it?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u148	Yeah, that's exactly what I meant, Mr. Nedyalkov, that's exactly what I meant. The line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u149	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Rashidov, the fair anger of Bulgarian citizens, unfortunately, was corrupted last night. Bulgarian policemen who were brought from all over the country were turned into smoked meat. We therefore wanted the minister to explain why, when they had information, Mr. Rashidov, that this thing would happen, they did not prevent it, but they had to bring here crowds of vans, buses with Bulgarian policemen to be ruined, beaten and in every way humiliated. Something they do not deserve because the Ministry of Interior has a strictly defined and fixed role in this country under the Constitution and under the Act on the Ministry of Interior. The fault of everything has happened is precisely the government and the management of the Ministry of Interior because they allowed this to happen, Mr. Rashidov, not anyone else. The police had nothing to do with this job or the protesters, because all this could have been avoided. Guilt carries this government because it does not listen to the voice of the people who have already 56 days asked for resignation. The bill, Mr. Rashidov, for all this must be given to the Council of Ministers, to Mr. Borisov and to the ruling majority because they caused this chaos out on the street. And by no means should we turn against each other. This is the most wrong policy, the most wrong approach that can be made to date. It's not the police, it's not the protesters. It was admitted for vague reasons for us. We wanted to know why last night should be introduced, implanted provocators into this peaceful otherwise protest that is held here for 56 days. That's the problem. And we all want to find out why those cops were so ripped off last night, so beat up and who's gonna pay for this thing. They won't even be paid overtime, coming here, and you know this thing very well. That's the main problem. So my respects, Mr. Rashidov, but it's the truth.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u150	Your time is up. Thank you. Is there another line?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u151	I want a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u152	I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u153	On what subject did the debate begin, I didn't understand to have lines and coats? What's the rule book?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u154	You're right, Mr. Karadaye. You have the floor, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u155	Learn these Rules!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u156	I'll try to get the debate back, just a little patience from everyone.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u157	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! Mr. Karadaye is very right, but all this... [[Relations from MP Mustafa Karadayi.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u158	Please, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u159	...is the result, Mr. Karadayi, of Mr. Rashidov's statement. I want to remind Mr. Rashidov of 2001 when a Sofia city councilman broke a police officer's nose. And right now, Mr. Rashidov, I think that at this moment reacting like this is not a face-to-face in this room, so that's what I just wanted to tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u160	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Is there a third line?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Rashidov, you have seen for yourself that there is a need for a violation of the Rules, because you have something to say about this. However, I do not agree that these people who are protesting outside must pay for all the damage caused in connection with the protests. These damages must be paid by a single person and his name is Boyko Metodiev Borisov. The reason for all these damages, for all these inconveniences of Bulgarian citizens, for all the inconveniences of the citizens of Sofia to use urban transport, intersections, streets and boulevards is only Boyko Metodiev Borisov. And the bill please Sofia Municipality to bring it to Boyko Metodiev Borisov. He's the guy who's responsible for all the scandals. He is the person who is responsible for these problems that we have in plenary, for these oppositions, because he has managed to oppose the Bulgarian people on all possible dividing lines. There is no line by which Borisov will not divide the Bulgarian society. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u162	Thank you. Mr. Rashidov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u163	Dear Mr. Chairman! I just have to make one amendment when we use the word people. I rather want to see that people we call doctors who work around the clock for our health. Thousands, thousands of people, teachers who prepare the school year, engineers, builders who work every day to be well, farmers who collect wheat to feed all winter, scientists. At the protests I must inform you that a serious artist does not have one. Not one! So for me, it's the people who work 24 hours a day. Very soon I will tell you who the leaders are, again I told you, children of the heavy commenclature grown up in the stations of the CCP of the BCP. I don't mind that, but now that they're extreme Democrats, I do mind. And as for the officers, colleague, you've fallen very low, you're plumbers, very underground. There's no such judgment, and I can sue you for pleasure. And whoever hits a cop, he gets a conviction, and I'll prove it to you. I don't have a conviction for that. And don't act like Kostov's management. I was yet another victim of such a government when you cast words without taking responsibility. Secondly, I continue to apologize to the President because he called the ruling goons and you are also in this guild. And what are you making an exception from the Bulgarian Parliament and the government? The goons weren't wearing black T-shirts behind him after he left the gym yesterday. That's what I meant. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] How? Didn't you see him? Are you going to fall in love with him? Did he pull out the pavements? Did he throw the benches? [[Applause from GERB.]] What should he pay you? They will pay those who, when they have the measure to make protests and uprisings, will also bear the responsibility for the behavior of this uprising. That's what I'm saying. Whatever you catch, Boyko Borisov is your fault. In the end it will turn out that everything is dirty because Boyko Borisov has dirty it. Come on, please, be serious! [[Replyings and calls from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Please don't yell like that, but let's act like people, because my wife works at Pirogov and I want to tell you that 24 hours of treatment yesterday 30 police officers. Who's gonna protect you tomorrow? You want her power. If I get you to protect me, I'm sorry. We want their authority to rise, don't we? Aren't these people supposed to take care of our kids every day?!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u164	Mr. Rashidov, your time is running out please finish.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u165	Did they throw the stones last night? Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u166	Thank you. Mr. Hamid's procedure. I'll give you my word, Mr. Genov. My request, however, is that after the procedures, we really begin to calm the tension a little bit and move on to normal work.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Hristov, in order to calm down, we must first follow the rules. I don't know if I should say it in English, in pure Mexican, but I'll explain it to you on this monitor as well. [[shows the monitor on the stands]] , and to the one before you, the topic is ZID of the Election Code. You had to cut off a few people speaking, and you kept breaking the rules. Now, in the fourth speech, three lines, speech, doppelganger, and not a word from you. And while I've made a language lapsus, you seem to deliberately violate the regulations. I can't assume you don't know that. If you'd like to rest for a while, have a cup of coffee, or you'll be self-adressing to your address the words of the classic Vezhdi Rashidov. He was talking about cocks about cabbage.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u168	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. I hope that's what Mr. Hamid was right about, and I'll try to get the discussion back to the item on the agenda. Mr. Genov, you have a procedure, don't you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is with you. I want you to remind Mr. Rashidov that someone brought the ultras to the square last night. It wasn't President Radev who met with the football bosses. [[Shouting and laughing from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u170	Who is it?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u171	Explain to Mr. Rashidov who was meeting with the football bosses. Who gave out money for stadiums? We remember the footage of the soccer bosses going to a guy to make dates. In this man, you may all know who he is, the worry is extremely great and the football campaign knows whose control they are. So remember these things so we don't throw each other's accusations at each other and confront each other. Hooligans have always been hooligans. The police.. our respect for her, could not cope to the end, as the colleague said, with prevention, but these people follow orders, they keep the order, the health of the citizens, their own and their own lives. So respect for the entire staff, which succeeded somewhat, as Commissioner Ivanov pointed out here just now, to deal with the situation, but obviously something was wrong with prevention and we had to hear it from the Minister, and you so respectfully brought him out so that he would not become the subject of questions which should have been answered inconveniently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u172	Thank you, Mr. Genov. I hope we can stop here. We'll continue the discussion. That's exactly what I meant. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u173	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We have broken the Rules of Procedure, of course, but perhaps the mistake is true, because what has been happening in recent months, perhaps more, is de facto part of the election situation, of the election campaign, and we are talking about projects to amend and supplement the Election Code, so we are probably at exactly the point we are discussing. Otherwise, in essence, on what has been tabled by two parliamentary groups, we have comments, of course, on the Bill of the Political Party GERB. We will share them and make our proposals between first and second readings on this bill, but I would like to draw a little more attention to the proposal of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Dear colleagues from DPS, there is a very nice Macedonian film, it is called The opening of yesterday's lunch. I don't know if you've seen it, but when elections are near, you always warm up the food with the same suggestions and they sound like this: Remove mandatory voting, remove the box These are your specific proposals now. What do you mean by that? I think there is no Bulgarian citizen who is not aware that you are using methods usually in crisis situations by twisting your hands, blackmailing, through some backstage arrangements to deal with such solutions as you have proposed at the moment. If anything goes wrong, it's good for you. You have some positives in front of your constituents to say you've accomplished something. However, if you do not achieve your ideas and goals, you have even more motive to say: here are the bad nationalists, the bad xenophobes who hate part of the Bulgarian society, who do not like the different and who really are a retrograde political formation in your eyes. That's what you're trying to impress on your constituents. However, there is nothing true about this, because the mandatory vote, if you remember, was introduced with a single goal to have greater representativeness in the elected authorities of the Bulgarian authorities. At the moment, I think it is in your pleasure to have a lower turnout and to be able the ethnic, bought, corporate vote to have much more weight and to be able to receive significantly greater representation than what Bulgarian citizens would give you in a normal situation. That's why you don't like the mandatory vote. I don't support anyone. Your old thesis is that it shouldn't exist, and you're supporting it now. But what about the return of the old rules for elections abroad, for opening election sections. We know where most or most of your votes came from, before we changed the Election Code, they came from a neighbouring country. Now you have put on your proposal in a slightly more delicate form, speaking of EU member states, how there should be this thing. Well, I don't think that the Bulgarian society would be very happy to have elections in hairdressers, in bathrooms, in buffoons or in any other such establishments where sections are being organised in other countries. I think that what we have introduced as rules with sections abroad is extremely objective, is extremely closely monitored for control by the Bulgarian state, by the Bulgarian diplomatic services and this ensures the integrity of the vote. Perhaps you would like to return such sections where there are more than 2,000 people voting in which to do so in less than a minute per person..................maybe that is your goal? The seclusion. You want to remove it, you want to return electoral tourism, take the buses back and drive them to villages and palanquins so they can weigh for this or that representative of yours in the region. I can also give you a concrete example, because with my own eyes I have seen these buses in Northwestern Bulgaria, where you know that you do not normally have a particular weight as political formation and as support, but nevertheless in recent years with these buses you have managed to secure a serious representation and have even sent MPs to several parliaments in a row. Agitation in mother tongue. Here I would like to congratulate Mr. Hamid on his philological discoveries and achievements in the field of linguistic knowledge, as he has opened a new language to us to wish us this new language! [[Applause from OP.]] You want again in soft form to introduce the right to agition in the mother tongue, although the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria has very clearly indicated which language is the official language, the legislation of the country gives an absolutely clear picture of what language can be agitated. We will translate with subtitles, there will be translation on the air or I do not know what else will happen. It is not to be ignored and your desire to corrupt the preferential vote. If you remember, in a previous National Assembly, the preference was introduced as an element of majority choice. Perhaps the Members of the National Assembly remember that you, even if I am not mistaken, have a colleague in this Parliament who is expelled precisely because they voted preferentially for him and he has become part of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. You want the party headquarters to arrange the lists and decide, to determine 100% guaranteed who will be your representative in the National Assembly. We at IMRO, of course, are against it. We defend the thesis that in addition to voting with the respective party lists, people should have the right and rearrange the candidates there so that the real picture in parliament can cover what they voted for and what the Bulgarian voters voted for. So, honourable Members of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we have no way of supporting these proposals of yours. We believe that they are an attempt to intervene foreign forces in the electoral process of the Republic of Bulgaria. Foreign forces, which will finance, will support the elections, will send buses, will provide the relevant money for transport not only, but also for a trip to Bulgaria, to the home places. We do not deny the right of these people to visit their home places, of course we respect their right, they are still Bulgarian citizens, but this cannot be part of the Bulgarian Election Code and to replace the true vote of Bulgarian citizens under the dictatorship of foreign countries. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u174	Thank you, dear Mr. Bogdanov. - What's the line? First line, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u175	Dear Mr. Bogdanov, do you know how your representative voted in the Legal Committee on the Draft Law of GERB? I'll tell you something. Before the Commission meeting, the same fellow Member gave extensive interviews in the direction that he would not support this bill. That's what his statement in the Legal Commission was about. And finally, guess what? Supports GERB's Bill! [[Replications from OP.]] But maybe this is a way and a style of political behavior, because that is what you did with GERB's proposal for a new Constitution: you are giving interviews in this direction that you will not sign the proposal if the points that you insist on are not included in it, and at the same time... [[Noise and lines from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u176	Colleagues, keep a little patience. Go on, Mrs. Niva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u177	...you give your signatures in support of the New Constitution Bill. But when it comes to the Constitution, along with the opinions of all our prominent constitutionalists who criticize this proposal, there is also one good thing, and the good thing is that Mr. Borisov understood that the Republic of Bulgaria has a Constitution because he has not appeared in parliament so far... [[GERB lines.]] Yeah, he doesn't appear in parliament, he doesn't appear in writing...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u178	Ms. Nieva, I've given you so much time to justify your line. You're running away from the subject right now. We're done raping the Rules of Procedure. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Please get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u179	I still have some time I can use.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u180	Please get on the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u181	So Mr. Borisov finally found out despite his attitude towards the current Constitution.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u182	Thank you. Second line? Colleagues, I'm giving you enough time to argue a statement, to argue a line. Please! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yeah, that's true, but I follow the rules. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Save just a little bit, give me a chance to talk. I am following the Rules of Procedure and it is not only the time that limits the speaker. There are requirements regarding the essence of the speech or the essence of the replica. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] No, I followed closely. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I've been watching closely! Please proceed and place a map.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Bogdanov, I agree with everything and support everything you've said. I wonder how a party like DPS is possible, which systematically and in absolutely all elections violates and violates the electoral legislation, the Election Code [[noise and laughter in BSP for Bulgaria.]] , by systematically agitating in Turkish, I do not understand what this insolence is about to come out of your representatives here from the DPS to plead that they are unfounded and who want to be legalized in the Election Code to have the right to campaign during election campaigns in the mother tongue. This is absolute insolence! If you, honourable representatives of the DPS, are here in these comfortable chairs, it is only because you have won these votes and found your place here in parliament, precisely from the troupe buses from Turkey. And now you want, honourable gentlemen of the DPS, to change the Election Code and to drop the seclusion, which means that this will happen in all elections. The official language in the Republic of Bulgaria is Bulgarian. Remember that! Bulgaria is a unilateral and one-ethnic country.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u184	Please turn around... Your line has run out of introductions. Here's a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u185	Dear Mr. Chairman! Looks like the law enforcement lady wasn't paying attention. I, as a representative of the Political Party IMRO, voted against. And if you do not know, Krasimir Bogdanov... [[Noise.]] On the phone, sir. [[Laughter at BSP for Bulgaria.]] On the phone. There's a protocol, look. It's not funny. There's protocol, read it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u186	Mr. Bojinov, I didn't understand your line. Mr. Bogdanov, you have the floor for the doppelganger. Mr. Bojinov, don't get into any trouble.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, I see the House has been turned on after the last speeches. My back is in the direction that I don't see what the first line has to do with my words. I was only commenting on GERB's Bill in the direction that we have some disagreements with him, and that is with regard to the mixed electoral system as he voted, by the way, and our colleague in the Legal Commission. We will submit our proposals for changes between the two readings. Otherwise, I accept Mrs. Tsvetkova's motives in her reply to me. Yes, perhaps I should have given a little more details about the way the DPS organised the electoral process and the way it sent a small part of its MPs to the National Assembly and other elected bodies.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u188	Thank you, Mr. Bogdanov. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Tsonev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! On the draft amendments and amendments to the Election Code in question, without prejudice to the current situation, because we have the Rules, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and Freedoms is not going to support the Bill submitted by Mrs Daritkova and a group of MPs in the Legal Committee. We believe that in this environment one of the important tasks that this National Assembly has to resolve is the way in which the next elections will be organised. Of course, this must be done as far as possible in a broad consensus, it must be done, of course, and taking into account the positive voice of those who protest. Not those who vandalize, but those who protest. We need to take into account the shortcomings of the current electoral legislation and therefore we need really serious work from all parliamentary groups. It's enough to mention the topic of engine voting. The topic that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms was the first to set since 2012 - more precisely since 2013, although there has been an experimental one since 2009. In 2013 at the initiative of the DPS were organized with the participation of colleagues from the Left, a parallel census of electoral votes was organized, in which we made a broad organization and, so to speak, duplicated the activities of the CEC. We have received a copy of all the protocols of the sectional election committees, respectively the regional election committees, to verify the outcome with the CEC. We were extremely surprised when we saw.. and since then it has been a practice... that over 65. 66%, two thirds of the protocols of the SIC were wrong, were forged, were signed, were rewritten, there were no signatures, there were no controls required to be properly done....................................................................... I told her in the Legal Commission to say it from this tribune, we do not necessarily claim that this is a forgery or that it is a deliberate process, but we say that it is an erotic trust in the country's electoral process. And for that reason, we have since started proposing different ways, one of which is the engine room, to minimize the work of the sectional election committees with the census, paper, drafting the protocols, respectively errors. Many times we have said that there is great turnover in the sectional election committees, there are people without experience, there are huge tensions until midnight, until morning and mistakes are inevitable. For this reason, the current text, acting in the 100% machine voting electoral code, without paper, is submitted by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and is supported by the majority. But let me say here, we disagree with the way machine voting is organised, and we've said that since we adopted these texts. It's the executive's job to provide the machines. The work of the state is to ensure certification, the software.. all that is needed for a legitimate electoral process through machine voting. It is not the job of the Central Election Commission and we do not accept the executive authority and the governing majority in the legislative body to transfer the ball to the CEC. The CEC has neither such opportunities nor any way to do so. I suppose that on the topic of engine voting we are yet to speak, but to tell everyone that this topic has been put up by the DPS and we will continue to work to have machine voting, but to be properly organised, to make the machines to be produced by our manufacturer certified and so on and so forth. There are many other reasons why we should not support the GERB Bill. One of them is that inside there is a separate chapter for organizing elections in the Grand National Assembly. We feel that this is not necessary now, not timely. I assume you understand that a decision to convene a Grand National Assembly from this ordinary National Assembly will not happen. We've stated our position, our colleagues from the Left, too. This determines the outcome of this decision. But back to the Bill submitted by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. I would like, in a very calm tone, to explain once again what our motives are for these proposals. In the last month the current word in the Bulgarian political and public life is a "constitution." Yesterday you signed and with 127 signatures you submitted a draft for a new constitution. It is good to learn, however, to observe the old one, and then perhaps we will have reason to ask for a new one. And because Mr. Zarkov, the highly respected by me, Mr. Zarkov, both as a lawyer and as a politician, spoke at the front point about the Constitution, about the Constitutional Court, that certain decisions concerning the judiciary would be precisely regulated by the Constitutional Court. Mr. Zarkov, I'm calling you because you're a good lawyer. How do we read art. 42 of the Constitution, para. 1 in relation to art. 26, para. 1, because you as a lawyer know that these things are read in relation? Article 42 says: "Citizens who are 18 years old, with the exception of those who have been incarcerated and who are being punished in prison, have the right to elect state and local authorities and to take part in inquiries to the people. This text, which is in the Chapter "Basic rights and obligations of citizens" we read in connection with art. 26, para. 1 of the same chapter, which says: The citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria, wherever they are, have all the rights and obligations under this Constitution. Well, honourable Members, I ask: why do the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria, who are outside the European Union, do not have all the rights and obligations under this Constitution, provided that the Constitution proclaims it? Why?! It is said that they cannot be denied rights and obligations. No matter where they are, they have these rights! On what grounds? On what constitutional grounds? I ask the lawyers, I don't ask the others. Nowhere is it said that fundamental rights and obligations of Bulgarian citizens can be revoked depending on where they are located. On the contrary, it is forbidden. Another thing people want out there. We say that in many countries of the world people are protesting. These protests are quoted by the Left and the extraparliamentary forces. They want to vote, they want to introduce a remote vote. Okay, how are we gonna put in a remote vote when they've been taken away from the right to vote?! What's the point of those in Canada and the United States who can't vote, we'll give them a remote vote?! They still won't be able to vote. It's an absolute nonsense of these things. The main objective of any election law.. of the Election Code is to make normal conditions maximum number of people to vote. And here we come to the next one why we propose to drop the mandatory vote. Because it is hollow text; because it is a non-working text; because with other texts we take away the rights of Bulgarian citizens to vote, and with this text we hypocritically oblige them all to vote. No, honourable Members from this part of the House.. the right, no, we are not opposed to the mandatory vote, because I will tell you: if all our voters vote, the ratio will be the same. [[Reply from OP.]] We know who our constituents are and you know who they are. According to ideology, according to ideas! [[Noise and lines from OP. Claps by DPS.]] We do not have any concerns that all Bulgarian citizens will vote. We don't have that kind of concern! We have concerns about hypocrisy: to oblige Bulgarian citizens to vote, but some of them. Another part are not Bulgarian citizens. And those who are in the Republic of Turkey and those who are in the States and those who are in Canada and those who are in Australia cannot vote, they are not Bulgarian citizens. So speaking of a Constitution, let us respect this, read the texts correctly, as should be the legislative body and stick to the fundamental rights and obligations of the Bulgarian citizens. And as for the pep talk in a language other than the Bulgarian language, colleagues, we never wanted this. We want the following: to be agitated in Bulgarian. When spoken in another language other than Bulgarian, there should be a translation in Bulgarian. Mandatory translation! When Hans van Balen came and in English greeted the voters of the DPS, we make a translation of his words from English. When a colleague of ours speaks Turkish, Turkish, mother tongue, voters, parents, brothers and sisters, we always have a translation. He always translates his words. We've always wanted this, and you've always missed it. Yes, the official language is Bulgarian, there is no doubt about it. Yes, we want everything that is said during elections to be translated into the official Bulgarian language. [[Noise and lines from OP.]] Because nowhere in the European Union is it said that other languages cannot be used during elections. Nowhere, no country, that's why! [[Noise and lines from OP.]] Just like before, when you were asking yourself to go back to the subject...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u190	You're gonna have to extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u191	You're gonna have to extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u192	Time extension, thank you. Okay, I see you've come a long way. Those things that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms offers are not a reheating of food. Or if I use your expression, dear colleague, the food is the Constitution, we will reheat it every time. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u193	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. - What's the line? I can't see. [[Reply.]] Dear colleagues, you will have the floor. According to the good parliamentary practice established in the years, we interrupt the meeting for 30 minutes. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u194	Colleagues, let's get back to work. Mr. Mihov to speak. He's gone. We will then continue with other speeches. I'm asking for a statement. Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u195	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The electoral process is a dynamic process and there is, however, a recurring counter-law, namely, a few months before elections, the government usually introduces proposals for changes in this process. Instead of bringing clarity and predictability through legislative measures, they are actually creating an organised chaos that leads to this process being closed down. In this case, we are offered a lot of changes that contradict the good practice that we have in Bulgaria and I would say in Europe as well. I will begin with the dreamy Grand National Assembly, which has become clear that there will be no...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u196	What made it clear?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u197	...but anyway, the proposals for changes in these texts are really contradictory to the good practice that we have at the moment. It is not clear from the proposals how exactly will you vote in one round or in two rounds? It is not clear how the areas will be defined. The districts will be multi-branded and one-sided, but notice, the criteria for determining these areas will be different. The multi-brandants will be determined on the basis of the data of the National Statistical Institute and permanent registration, while the one-sided will only be based on the National Statistical Institute. Also in these areas will act party lists and there will be an opportunity for lists submitted by initiative committees. I just want to tell my colleagues that this is not in our electoral practice in Bulgaria so far, and as it turns out in the European Union. I don't know where they got that frontal experience.! 30 years ago, the Grand National Assembly was elected according to another methodology, under another existing Constitution and under another Act in force. Notice a law in force that has been applied, not as we are now doing... not to apply the legislation in force. The other proposal is for the duration of the election day to continue for 48 hours if there is, for example, a complicated epidemiological situation. Okay, but there is no answer to the question of organizational problems that will arise. This process, these 48 hours how will they be, will they be interrupted, in which case can part of the sectional election committees be replaced? Who's gonna guard the ballots? Perhaps the colleagues who carried the sacks in the Hall of Armeec, for example? It's okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u198	Tzipov, was that for you?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u199	Apparently.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u200	We're moving on. You want to match machine and paper voting with both votes being held at the same time. Perhaps so, colleagues, but we have made a decision in sections with over 300 voters voting to be machine. Since a lot of voices have been heard in the direction... and you're trying to hide behind the health measures taken, how many people will vote with one machine, I can say here the following: voting with two chemicals in the dark room is no less dangerous. The signatures will be placed in the book with only one pen. So there will be enough, I would say common points between voters to ignore the engine vote, not to say that they will be advised not to vote with machines at all. The other thing that also impressed me is that the CEC will not exercise control over software and hardware. The control will be carried out by the Bulgarian Institute of Standardization and the Bulgarian Institute of Metrology. So far so good, but we have received a letter, there is an opinion from the Bulgarian Institute of Standardization, which claims that it has neither the capacity nor the ability to carry out these checks. Then how? Who are we assigning it to? This is a stillborn text in practice that will not work, or this institute will subsequently be replaced by someone comfortable who will make the software the way the government wants. Also, the CEC will not give mandatory instructions to performers in the process something that has not been until now. The civil control by observers of the engine voting system shall also be removed. I don't know why the observer can watch the ledger from where the ballots are being torn, he can monitor the lists, but he can't monitor the machine. There's a doubt about pre-prepared manipulation. The standard of the Council of Europe for a stable law of the electoral process is also violated or, in other words, do not touch the Election Code. The judicial challenge of the CEC's decision on the computer processing of election results has been removed. Or, in other words, there is no way we can get to the horizon called fair elections as we walk with cheerful steps backwards. That's not gonna happen! At this time, at the current elections we have identified problems, but these problems are not solved, no steps are taken to solve them, namely the organizational violations during the election day, the bought vote, the controlled vote. On the contrary, colleagues, the changes you have proposed will suppress the electoral process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u201	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Are there lines? Mr. Mihov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u202	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will be brief and I will speak about the proposals for changes made by the DPS. I will be brief because this debate has already been held several times in several national meetings and several times in several national meetings Parliament has spoken. I will be brief in relation to only one point in the arguments of the importers, which is the question that the regulation on foreign voting limits rights. When it wants to attack a norm, the easiest thing is to attack it through a principle, only that the principles laid down in the Constitution act in a real environment and I do not want to seize the role of lawyers, but it is clear that the right must be exercised. The Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria is guaranteed and its rights are implemented, unfortunately, only at the borders of the Republic of Bulgaria. Other political and social realities are operating abroad, and the key to all of this is the question: how are these rights implemented in the Republic of Turkey? Let us not delude ourselves, behind the facade of the rights of Bulgarians abroad, the DPS pursues only its own political interests, it is understandable, these are their voters in the Republic of Turkey. [[DPS lines.]] The question is: can fair and democratic elections be guaranteed in the Republic of Turkey outside the territory of the Bulgarian diplomatic representations? It's a rhetorical question, but our answer is no. I'll say two things. The criticism of the political regime in the Republic of Turkey of President Erdogan is very serious and it comes not from here the standing nationalists, but from many law enforcement and international institutions, organisations and countries with established democratic principles. The second local elections in the Republic of Turkey were quite widely commented on by the state's intervention in this electoral process. I only remind you of the case of the casting of elections in the largest city of this country. Therefore, we continue to argue that the rights of Bulgarian citizens can only be guaranteed where the Bulgarian administration, the Bulgarian state can provide normal and fair elections, and in the Republic of Turkey these are the Bulgarian diplomatic representations and therefore we will not support your proposal. Thank you. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u203	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. - What's the line? Mr. Zarkov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u204	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Mihov, my line consists of the following.... by your parliamentary group quite irrigationly discussing the Bill submitted by the DPS. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms is once again making its proposals, they have been discussed here many times. They have their arguments and we have all expressed an opinion on them. We'll keep doing it. But you are deliberately running away from discussing the Bill, which has a chance to pass, thanks to you gathered a majority, namely the GERB Bill, so please, before you take care of the elections in Turkey, do you say the Bulgarian administration has the opportunity and capacity to ensure fair and fair elections in Bulgaria? In Bulgaria, with six hundred and thousands of invalid ballots, with continuous reports for buying votes? So before you explain to us the geopolitical situation, please respond to the following: The Law of GERB? For or against the paper? "For" or "against" (s) to be certified? For two-day elections or for two-day elections? Because in the Legal Committee, you did what you did with the Constitution in front of the cameras, were you against the cameras, were you voting for it by phone or otherwise?! In parliament, you vote on the phone, and machines for people can't?! Stop being hypocritical and don't divert the subject to the Bill of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, which didn't raise a majority anyway. And tell the Bulgarian citizens honestly that you support this government and the way it is created, precisely by forgery of the elections. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u205	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Second line? I can't see. Mr. Mihov, the dodger.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u206	Honorable Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Zarkov, I understand your position, but I don't understand why you made a line of something I didn't say. Usually a line is made and there is a disagreement with what you said. In this sense, your line was rather a statement. You correctly ask the question: who can guarantee fair and democratic elections now? The ones who are coming. You have an answer. However, this answer is yours. And I ask you the simple question: in this acute polarization, when an institution called under the Constitution must be directly elected by the people and standing above political struggles and party struggles, can it guarantee free and fair elections? Your answer is clear, but you have to ask yourself the question: is it united for the Bulgarian society? It is not shared by the whole Bulgarian society. And here is the very important question: how do we guarantee free and fair elections? And history so far has shown us that the elections, whatever the definitions we put in front of them, in recent years, have resulted in mixed results of some gaining some political powers, others gaining other political powers. This gives me reason to conclude that the thesis of total manipulation of the elections in Bulgaria is not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u207	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. We continue with the speeches. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u208	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleagues, after what you call the Constitution, and it is not the Constitution, you are offering us something you call changes to the Election Code, but these are simply elections in Gerbadjii, as well as your Constitution is an honest Gerbadji order. Your constitution was destroyed by criticism by all constitutionalists, and this project met with opposition from experts in the country. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] From the state authorities and the non-governmental sector. Read your opinions, colleagues. With this project you are transferring all responsibility to the CEC and you have received a response to resign, in an attempt to save the President of the CEC from what is being asked. You transferred responsibility to the state authorities, read their opinions. And why are you doing this? If you and the Constitution want to win another two months of political time and introduce this Gerbaji order, here you want to reproduce. And more about winning legitimacy, because you know that you are not legitimate and you cannot produce legitimate elections and people acknowledge the result. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] That's why you use machines that are a good thing, but you introduce them in your own way. Get to the point. You predicted that the company that did computer processing of the voting data should no longer be selected with a contest because the same company won. Well, colleagues, it's the same firm and there's always a preeminent winner in public procurement. Why not fasten it directly in the Constitution and in the Election Code and make it clear that Boyko Borisov personally announces the winners. Who needs a contest?! You've already started, you've come to an end. You offer mixing of machines and paper, you offer two days of vote in a row and you offer many more nonsense, colleagues. But let me read your opinions, starting with the state authorities: With great surprise we have learned... those who have to apply the Law are surprised at what they should do. It is not correct to assign anything to an institution without consulting whether it can perform it. The machine voting technical devices in question must meet European standards and not the CEC has yet to define them. And then they explained to you as for people who find it harder to understand with parentheses, explanations with simple words. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB. Communicating: "Eee! "]] Let me read it to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u209	Who is this about, Mr. Bojankov? Do you have a specific example?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u210	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The terms of the audit, testing and certification shall be absolutely incompatible with both the apparatus and the programming part of the technical devices. Colleagues, a technical device audit, is an absolute oxymoron, as the audit is carried out by experts called auditors, usually certified, and they check documents and ask questions. How will the technical device answer their questions? As for the software, it can be assessed whether it is compliant with the CEC rules in parentheses, this is called verification, explaining you in simple words. And whether it meets its purpose again, it is called validation. I just think that as for your level of expertise is explained in the opinion that you, I suppose, do not accept. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u211	I'll remind you again, twice, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u212	And I'm finishing, colleagues, with the opinion of "Transperences International": The proposed text creates risks to the electoral process that express a complete misunderstanding of the problems in this area and create conditions to completely destroy the public confidence in the elections in the country. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u213	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojankov. It's nice of you to graduate before I remind you of the third time. Replices, coworkers? Mr. Angelov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u214	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Because BSP is asking what our attitude is about these proposals that GERB has made, we have very clearly stated it, especially about having a majority choice of MPs, because we believe that this way society, for example, will not be presented for the next Grand National Assembly, because one or two parties will take these places and change the vote of the people. We have said this, and that is why even one of our representatives voted against it in the Commission. And you know that very well. But it's weird for me, why are you BSP silent on DPS proposals? So you're back on tours by buses from Turkey, you're about Turkey interfering in the domestic affairs of Bulgaria. Well, I didn't hear anything in your statement against their bill. Tell me! [[Loud noise and lines.]] You're against preferences. You've done it again, I'll use it, there's no Mr. Mexican word, no DPS, and that's why you're not attacking each other. You are clearly preparing to rule again along with a particular contingent outside, a neoliberal contingent who confesses gender ideologies that want the Istanbul Convention as well as a large part of your group, although it is not now accepted to say so because society does not want it. So when you criticize us, check what we said, what our reactions were and what our vote was. And when it is necessary to protect the national interest of the state, because what the DPS offers is against the national interests of the Bulgarian state...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u215	You're running out of time, Mr. Angelov. Finish your thought. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u216	... You're silent again.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u217	Thank you. Are there lines? You're welcome to join us in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u218	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The procedure is in the manner of conduct and is entirely to you. Today we are witnessing a permanent violation of the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. The Constitution is a supreme law, and all other laws cannot contradict it. A moment ago, Mr. Zarkov said that there was a general agreement in which a common agreement here in plenary and also in the Legal Commission was achieved for violation of the Constitution. Everyone keeps quiet about it, everyone runs away from that responsibility. The nationalist colleagues, as Mr. Mihov himself described, violated the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure repeatedly... [[a line from the MP Julian Angelov]] [[Lowered noise and lines from OP. Replies from the National Representative Julian Angelov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u219	Wait, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u220	Violation of the Rules, Mr. Hristov, is done with your support. The rules are by the power of law and it cannot contradict the Constitution. Mr. Hristov, since we started working, we only and only break the rules, break the laws, violate the Constitution, violate the rights of Bulgarian citizens. Do not make this mistake as your chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u221	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. I do not know what mistake the President of the Bulgarian Parliament has made. You also did not argue about how I, as the host during Mr. Angelov's speech, violated the Rules. I think your statement and the note to me were irrelevant. [[(Reply by National Representative Halil Letifov:]] Please come in, but please be specific.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u222	Mr. Chairman, if you really don't understand where you're breaking the rules, then you don't belong there. Mr. Bojankov made a statement, Mr. Angelov made a line. All the time, he turned to the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. [[Loud noise from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u223	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u224	That was basically it, Mr. Christov. You tell me. Then do it really, contrary to the rules, and beyond the time that the Rules give them right, but because you are coalition partners, and they are nationalists, they are allowed. [[a line from the MP Julian Angelov]] [[Relations from the National Representative Julian Angelov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u225	Be quiet, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u226	No, nationalism does not allow breaking the rules, Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u227	Dear Mr. Letifov, I will refrain from answering. Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u228	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The entire history of the discussions of the Election Code in this term is quite embarrassing and continues to be so. The first reason for this is that we are discussing at the same time two bills that concern the same code, but many different materials. In order to show people how to respond clearly when you ask what BSP's attitude to the DPS Bill is, it was expressed to the Commission, it will be expressed today. Against!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u229	With what motive?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u230	We've made dozens of statements. [[Lowered noise and lines from OP. A line from the National Representative Julian Angelov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u231	Colleagues, do not challenge me, please, to bring order into this Chamber in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u232	The DPS submitted their bill on August 28th this year.. bringing it back to the National Assembly, where they are fighting for the interests of people who want to vote abroad and attacking the provision for banning the agile of a foreign language and preferences. On the three issues we have clearly stated. But there is a conversation and it should be conducted on how to vote abroad because we believe that Bulgarians living abroad should be attracted to Bulgarian political life, because otherwise, honourable colleagues, they return in August and September and you can see them on the street. But there's something else that corrupts the debate. The debate is as follows: the DPS bill will not pass. The bill, which will most likely become right, is the one of GERB, the one you of the Patriots support. And this bill is very important in the context of the upcoming elections. What was supposed to be done? It was necessary to ensure the engine vote and to facilitate the way it was conducted. How it should have been done is clear to everyone because it was described in a series of reports of the Central Election Commission in various compositions. Why do they know? Because Bulgaria has had the engine vote by law for six years and experiments have been conducted. And now you're asking us which machine and what machine, it's like nothing's happened so far, which is wrong. Why have you voted over the years different experiments if you don't look at what they've shown? It is clear what and how it should be done. It's clear what the questions are. By the way, with absolutely no changes to the Election Code, it is also possible to hold a machine vote, as long as, however, the government helps the process and does not sabotage it as it happens. And now what do these colleagues from GERB offer with the help of the United Patriarchs, who say one and another, but finally vote with the authorities to be part of them, and will become a most likely fact? Instead of making the process easier, it gets complicated. Instead of getting anywhere with over 300 voters to have just a machine vote, now we're going to go back and import paper. By importing paper, we also bring in all the problems we want to eliminate with the engine vote. Because the most useful activity of the machine vote is that it does not allow a null ballot, does not allow unaccounted for reference, does not allow the wrong protocol. When you duplicate it with paper, you will at least duplicate these problems, and spend on machines, and all organizational service and effort are largely meaningless. The idea of this law is another: to save the executive from responsibility. The government and the Council of Ministers are involved in the electoral process, have always had, and art. 18 of the current Election Code in force since 2014 shares responsibility between the Central Election Commission and the government. The way they have a wide variety of institutions dealing with ballots, so should they be dealing with machines. Only the government honestly doesn't help, not to say it's in the way. The final fact is the refusal to talk about these issues. Now, by law, everything must be done by the Central Election Commission, by service of service, by God knows who, only the government is not inside the process, because it is not for anyone to fulfill the law, but for someone to take responsibility for their pre-set failure! And that's the truth! [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And this truth you know and I'll tell you why I know you know I heard it from you. Your legal committee rep explained it, only in front of the cameras he explained what he wouldn't do and did the opposite when the cameras left. But in the end, what is an election code for people who change their position on the Constitution? [[(Comments from GERB: Name? Who?]] What is also the purpose that is being pursued, and why would it complicate the process? When you know that there are only machines in an election section with a certain number of voters, when you know how long it takes to vote on machines and you've done experiments when you can estimate how many people can vote on a machine, then you can also make a very clear account of how many machines you need. When you insert paper into this process, you can no longer accurately judge and remain on someone's discretion to tell how many machines you will buy. And there's a difference between 60 million and 120 million, right? And among those who will participate in the public procurement, there is also a difference because it will turn out that only one can suddenly be in such deadlines. One more option. The President of the Republic proposed this conversation to you at the end of last year so that you could not come there to this conversation so that these issues could be resolved in advance and not be subject to a scandal 48 hours before the election day, as has happened. You refused this conversation. You said we'd put together a task force to solve them here, this is where they're decided. To this working group we came and put our problems, put the solution and brought you texts, only we didn't draw this machine, only we didn't put it together in front of you! The truth is, you were constantly sabotaging the process and making it spin. As a matter of fact, the heavy topics that both the DPS and the DPS pose freely or inadvertently help not to turn the conversation around where solutions can be found. The result of all this is that our Election Code will be even more confused that its implementation will be even more difficult. And to that, adding to the fact that the President of the Central Election Commission, elected by you, a respected person and a lawyer, for whom no one can say a bad word in the guild or as President of the CEC, said that because of this law, he quit! Not for personal reasons, as someone tried to explain, although I do not minimize my respect for Judge Stoeva. The truth is that she was put in an impossible position, and she saw that she could expect nothing more from the current government than to point her finger at her and tell her she was guilty. I don't know how long you think you can fool Bulgarian citizens and us, but I think the end moment is over. The machines are not panacea, but they are an important guarantee for some of the most elementary and shameful processes in Bulgaria - a country in 2020, where more than half of the protocols are wrong! A country where over 600,000. More people than they need to bring a party into this parliament, they are not accounted for because of invalidity. A country that constantly spins the same topics without solving them. After all, I do not know how long and how long you plan to play with this process, but I do know how it will end: it will put you where you belong outside the electoral process. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u233	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Are there lines? I don't see any lines. Mr. Karadaye, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u234	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In an attempt to be useful, we will express our opinion. The proposed Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code is another proof of incompetence, lack of political will and total hypocrisy. The DPS has consistently supported the engine vote. The DPS is an importer of the proposal to vote entirely machine, but when ensuring the vote of every Bulgarian citizen, in ensuring the secret of the vote and the security of the electoral process, so that real votes can not be converted into nullity in order not to steal a single vote in order not to replace the political representation. This means: the state to purchase the machines, the state to make the software, the state authorities to audit and certificate the machines, the state to secure the storage and security of these machines. What's really going on? In just one year, the government has created a real chaos about engine voting. Last before the local elections in 2019, only machine voting in sections with over 300 voters was decided. So until a few days ago, until August this year, when GERB tabled a bill today. It also returns the paper vote without solving the main problem of reflecting the results of the vote in the SEC protocols, which was highlighted as a problem with the analysis of the machine voting in the elections for Members of the European Parliament in 2019. This move back and forth of the sample principle, a mistake so characteristic of the management of GERB, is about to create an unprecedented situation after the elections with the rejection of election results and the creation of mistrust in the elected authorities. Ladies and gentlemen of GERB, for ten years in power you should have learned the lesson about the expensive price of lies in politics. Who are you lying to? You cannot claim that you want to secure a machine vote by assigning it to the CEC without providing the necessary power resource and administrative capacity of the CEC. What administrative capacity does the CEC have? What administration? There's no one to believe you want a machine vote. You condemn the engine vote to failure with this project! Moreover, you set many traps for after the elections, creating conditions for contesting election results and ultimately instability in the country. Traditionally, in the production of elections as a major democratic instrument for the constitution of state bodies provided for in the Constitution, organizational technical preparation is carried out by the executive. Here is the correct decision of the Council of Ministers, No 100 from February: assigns to the Deputy Prime Minister, on the basis of art. Art. 6 and art. 18 of the Election Code to answer and to carry out this work! It's the right thing to do. What are you doing with these proposals now? With the Election Code, some important technical activities have been assigned to the election management body. The CEC has the specific powers of management of the process. It is therefore unacceptable to assign technical activities to it. But you don't stop there. The draft law entrusts this body and the provision of machines without deciding who will carry out the audit, the certification of these machines, who will provide all the logistics, who and where will keep these machines, who will guard them! All these issues ultimately, if you do not find a solution in this law, you condemn the engine vote to failure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u235	The weather, Mr. Karadaye. I'm sorry, but it's been increased once already.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u236	The fact that you bet the CEC to be the convenient culprit can't save you from liability. Let's organize a normal election! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u237	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. - What's the line?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u238	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Karadayi! You are talking about GERB's hypocrisy in this draft amending the Election Code relating to machine voting. This hypocrisy, Mr. Karadayi, is not from now on. For three years, colleagues from GERB lied to the Bulgarian National Assembly, lied to Bulgarian citizens, and March the Prime Minister did the same by urging how there will be only a machine vote in the next elections and when the upcoming elections are near, they always cancel it. So three years. You remember in every procedure to make the state budget how we insist there is money included in the budget for machines and they reject them every year. Then Borisov calls on the phone, at night we accept 60 million, the elections come, however, it turns out that there are no machines until this day when he shines the truth: no machine voting, no voting by color, no voting by German with the wrong protocols, with 600,000 false ballots and with so many invalid Bulgarian votes, which unfortunately are not present in this Chamber as parliamentary representation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u239	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. I didn't make a comment, but I hope that when the same language is used in relation to your group, I mean a lie, not to react, because now they have endured you. Are there any other lines? A hole, dear Mr. Karadaye. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u240	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Svilensky, I don't think there's anything to answer your line about anything else, but because you pointed out the facts in confirmation of my speech. But at the time when I'm entitled to my doppelganger, colleagues, allow me to call... Because you are making a replica about the engine vote, but first we need to ensure that the rights of Bulgarian citizens can vote, have the right to vote, as stated in the Constitution. And that is why, honourable Members, first of all, I would like to call on all those 127 Members of Parliament who have signed a draft for a new Constitution, until once in time becomes the new Constitution, until then, colleagues, at least show that you want to respect this new Constitution, while respecting the current Constitution! And vote for the proposals that you made the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, because for the language, colleagues, the hypocrisy of this House we have discussed it! We are members of the European Union. In accordance with the Constitution............................................................................................... 5 and the electoral rules that operate in the European Union, citizens who are not Bulgarian citizens, but citizens of EU Member States, without having the obligation to know Bulgarian, have the right not only to vote in our local elections - elections for members of the European Parliament, they have the right to even be candidates in local elections in Bulgaria, they can also be candidates for MEPs from Bulgaria. This is allowed by European rules without having the obligation to know Bulgarian. And hiding... No, I'm not going in... I was going to qualify you, I don't need to make you, but I call on us to respect the Constitution. The language, that's what it's about. Yes, I am a Bulgarian citizen and I am Turkish and I speak Turkish where I should speak, and I speak Bulgarian where I should speak Bulgarian. There's nothing to restrict these rights to me. You know what I mean? But here I wanted to say that with prejudice we are breaking European rules. During the break, I spoke to some colleagues on the left and right. They know who they are...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u241	The weather, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u242	And they say, "You're right with your suggestions that...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u243	Time, time!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u244	...we are violating the Constitution, but we will not vote for them again and again consciously, again, will violate the Bulgarian Constitution. Thank you and excuse me. [[(Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u245	Thank you. We continue with the speeches. Mrs. Karayancheva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u246	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I have been in elections since 2007. At the beginning, when I entered parliament, we started working on the Election Code. Then the work continued. There were a lot of people from you, I don't know if they were here in this room, but there were a lot of people involved, and they gave examples of harmful practices that we removed in time in the relevant election papers that we presented here to the MPs. However, I would like to tell you exactly how an election process is going, because a lot is being speculated. I know that you have all participated, but I do not know how much you have organised such a process, how to recruit members of electoral committees, what quotas these members are put into, because there are representatives of the various parliamentary represented parties in each election committee, plus a representative of a party that has members in the European Parliament. There are extremely many observers, advocates who participate both during the election process and during the countdown, they receive the relevant papers for the respective vote. Here, in a way, I'm not saying 100%, it's kind of limited to the possibility of forgery of the vote. Secondly, the protocols are really very complex and I am for simplifying the protocols. Why did you get so many unsolicited ballots in the previous election? Some are trying to suggest that this is almost because the committee is falsifying or some party is trying to fake. No, there were just scratched out not squares for parties, but squares for preferences only. Or vice versa when the ballot is valid. But during these debates in all these years, and I would like to say from this tribune that I have actively supported the introduction of the protocol into a type of carnet to break up, to have a unique number inside, as well as the newsletter itself. Yeah, there really was a time when protocol was just a xerocope and I could have replaced myself. However, it is not the case now and let everyone admit it, including some ladies who wrote that law! Including the president confessing. I don't know how much he's organised an election and how much he's involved? I am merely listing you what should be noted that it is indeed marked as a vicious practice and it is gone and I think that all my colleagues will support me in this. When a protocol is corrected, there are all observers, advocates. The committee members are inside. Everyone is signed after this correction. [[Reply of MP Yordan Tsonev.]] When they go to the OIC, in the same way, in order to change a protocol, at least three members of the committee are gathered. I'm going to the engine vote. My fellow Members, you're only talking about a machine vote. We had over 3,000 machines in the past election. Now there is money again to buy machines and I call you "The Parliamentary Group of BSP," because now you have elections, well, let's make them into machines to see how effective these machines are!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u247	Give me the money and we'll do it!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u248	No, we've got machines ready, we'll give them to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u249	Give me some money!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u250	Ask the CEC for them. [[(Applause from GERB and shouts:]] For me, voting on machines alone is a problem. I'll tell you why. Given the exceptional epidemic situation, first, these machines will be disinfected, possibly also damaged. [[Radio and laughter from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Well, okay, squirt your phones a few times with spirits and you'll see what you're talking about! How many machines should there be in a section? Does that mean the election process will be stopped? If there's such a danger!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u251	How many pens will it take?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u252	That's my first reason, fellow Members! Older people. I refer to my parents and the parents of many of you, your constituents, all of our voters, people who are not so accustomed to working freely with a display, with the possibility of... I'm telling you that my mom's worried when she's working on my phone, I won't tell you what the brand is. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm sure your parents are the same way. Come on, let's practically talk. Let's not talk here like we fell from Mars. This lady or gentleman comes in, stands in front of the machine and starts looking for a place to vote. It turns out, however, that in his anxiety he is unable to find the number or in any way to navigate. Who's helping her, where's the secret of the vote? He can't go home because this woman or this man wants to exercise his vote! And there are young people out there who work perfectly with this device. Well, they're leaving because 20 minutes of someone wondering what to do, they're gonna get nervous and leave. Smarter people than us who are in this area say that on an election day at the best pace more than 200 people cannot pass. We want a lot of representation, don't we? We want a lot of turnout.! There are many more reasons that I can point out to say why we want to have a paper bulletin and not interrupt the process and not deprive our fellow citizens of the opportunity to vote otherwise! Therefore, do not underestimate the role of the sectional election committees. The time passed when in mixed regions BSP did not send people to the villages at all, they only gave members in the city sections. There was then an opportunity by one or two political forces to make their elections, as the respective polling section wants and within 9:00 we have 100% votes. Now there's no such thing, and I want us all to admit it. There are or there are no machines, the vote of Bulgarian citizens must be guaranteed! But there's something very manipulative that goes everywhere. Everywhere goes that GERB almost wants to steal the elections, manipulate them! So, what's up, guys, this thing gonna happen? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Let's take a look. I have bothered how the elections happened and when GERB won in parliamentary elections. In 2009, at the Triple Coalition, GERB was the first political force; in 2013. supposed government, GERB first political power; in 2014 The government of Oresharski, GERB First Political Power; in 2017 the government of Oresharski, GERB First Political Power On the other hand, President Radev, a caretaker government, which, on the other hand, you see, won in 2016, when the elections made them GERB. [[(Replys from BSP for ……]] So, what's up? When GERB made the elections, you won! [[Applause from GERB.]] So do not try to manipulate the Bulgarian citizens. In the Election Code, there are many things that are touched and that do not allow what was before. Don't make excuses for losing the election. [[Applause from GERB.]] Work! Give me ideas! Do not make a vision for Bulgaria because it does not work! Do something about the people. Look what they want! We are winning thanks to this.. I allow myself to give you a piece of advice, like many winning parties: stay with the people, don't talk to them loud talk and don't catch them colorful chickens! Just listen to what they want, promise what you will do as we do, now the third government! So, colleagues, I wish you success in the next regular parliamentary elections when we will vote with machines and ballots, so that we do not take away the opportunity of the Bulgarian citizens to vote. [[Applause from GERB]] Because we are looking for broad representation and really Bulgarian citizens to choose the better political project. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u253	Thank you, dear Mrs. Karayancheva. Are there any lines? The line is Mr. Baychev, the second line is Mr. Ivanov, and the third line is Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u254	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Karayancheva, I'm glad you're familiar with the technological process. This call for simplification leads to the easier filling of the protocols, this is indisputable, but still to the easier filling of the false data protocols. That is why, when completing the protocol, there is also a column called the.................................................................................................. Here it is the party's duty to create one, to call it an electoral administration of people who are literate and to do their job, not to look for the right ones to carry out political orders and duties. And I'm setting an example right away. In the Netherlands, the electoral ballot is so made that there is a hidden educational value, that is, you should read from above, for example: You fill in the fifth order of the seventh order, so the Dutch are no less stupid than we are and have achieved much more in democracy. [[Arrival in GERB.]] As for the COVID we're hiding behind, I'd like to tell you this. They all sign with the same pen when they go to vote, so we don't have to worry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u255	Thank you, dear Mr. Baichev. Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u256	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Ms. Karayancheva, you have really thoroughly introduced the MPs and our viewers and listeners to the process of conducting the elections. I regret that the other colleagues on the left side of the Chamber continue to abuse the mentality, the intelligence of the Bulgarian citizens and continue to claim that the sectional election committees participate in some forgery in elections, not to mention that they have three or four representatives in these sectional election committees. And let's go over it one more time! In 2017 there are 169 thousand invalid ballots in the holding of elections for parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria of 3 million. 682,000. 151 real votes cast. In 2014, there were 218 thousand invalid votes of 3 million. 501,000. 269 Bulgarian citizens. That is, indeed, over time even Bulgarian citizens are less wrong in election papers and taking into account election results. And let us mention that in 2018, when 600,000 null ballots were mentioned, because colleagues wrongly mentioned that these votes were not represented in this Parliament, then let us mention, colleagues, that there were elections and Mrs Karayancheva can confirm to you that at the time there were local elections, that is to say there would be no representatives in the local parliament. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Don't abuse that! Then the election, again let's say by whom this Election Code was written by a lamp of election law, a lady who was also an ombudsman by Mrs. Maya Manolova, then a representative from BSP. Then, because I was in these elections and I remember how Bulgarian citizens of the section polling committees, especially in Sofia, because of the very good electoral legislation they were sitting in the Arena Armeecs for five days and bringing them food, water and medicines. So thank you for your electoral expertise.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u257	The weather, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u258	Thank you for your electoral qualifications, but do not justify your upcoming loss of the next parliamentary elections. Thank you. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u259	Mr. Zablyanov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u260	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Ms. Karayancheva, thank you on behalf of BSP for all the advice you gave us. Going back in the years, of all the victories of GERB, which you pointed out, a large part of them have been achieved in an insane, I would say, political and social environment. There are several reasons for this. We remember the crises, we remember your behaviour in Parliament, we remember other protests and everything you shouldn't miss today. So holding the elections is not just a question of how many machines there will be in the section, but what are the general political conditions in which they are held, the confidence of the political parties that conduct them. No section has set out to manipulate the outcome on its own. Therefore, guarantors of fair elections should be the guides of the parliamentary and extraparliamentary political parties that appear. I mean, they're not the initiators of falsifying the election. [[Reply from OP.]] It's a line, of course! For this reason, I turn to you because the responsibility of honest elections is enormous and is yours. Much of the protests on the street are due to the fact that Bulgarian citizens do not believe that the result corresponds to the political realities in society. I don't know if machines can help in this situation or paper ballots. By technical means, the political defects of Bulgarian democracy cannot be solved. I was hoping that the discussion on changes in the Election Code would affect...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u261	Dear Mr. Jablyanov, please finish your thought.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u262	I'm done, Mr. Chairman. ...will also affect this aspect of the election, and we are once again dealing with the purely technical side. It will not increase the activity of Bulgarian citizens, increase the representativeness of the political parties and the political authorities of the Republic.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u263	Thank you. You have the floor for the coat, dear Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u264	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Baychev, it is really important that the members of the committees are very trained. I think we should pay attention to the Central Election Commission and the methodologies as they are done. However, the point is that in the big cities your representatives in the SIC do not want to participate in the transmission of protocols to the polls when they are carried in the Municipal Election Commission. This should be checked and taken appropriate measures. This isn't about the Kovid problem with the machines. Normally, only 200 people a day can go to the best organization. For example, not only in my constituency, in other constituencies there are sections of 1200 people who pass in one day. Okay, one, two, three, six, the machines go down, what do we do? We're ruining the election? You still have to think in that direction. Something I missed in my speech and here I want to say, I do not support the 48-hour vote proposed in the GERB project. This is also unacceptable for me, and I will insist that this is dismissed. The election will be in one day only. Thank you, Mr. Ivanov, for your input. Mr. Zablyanov, I am glad that I have been useful to the election process of the BSP party. [[Laughter at GERB.]] I wish you on September 12th to defeat the best of your party and become the leader of the party and the parliamentary group. You are right that trust in political parties must be proven and built every day, only there is no way, how to say, we must see this thing ourselves and build our own authority by having debates that are really useful to society and as MPs to be at the heights that our voters require. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u265	Thank you, dear Mrs. Karayancheva. We continue with the speeches. Is there anyone else who wants to make a statement? Mrs. Nieva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u266	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, the proposed Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code should clear up certain texts which give rise to conflicting practice in their implementation in order to conduct fair elections. I would like to draw your attention to a text and thank Mrs Karayancheva for thinking in the same direction. The newly proposed § 22 states that in the event of an emergency epidemiological situation, the elections take place for two days. And since we are now in such an epidemiological situation, honourable colleagues from GERB, can I think that you are ready to resign and now to hold elections as the sovereign wants out? [[GERB lines.]] But you have not answered any other questions: who will guarantee the integrity of the vote exactly in holding elections on two consecutive days, as European practice in this regard is another? I will set an example of the elections in France this year, which, despite such an epidemiological situation, took place in one day. So instead of a guarantee of fair elections, some of the texts lead to other thoughts and create perhaps a prerequisite for manipulation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u267	Thank you, Ms. Niva. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 054-01-85, tabled by the National Representative Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. They voted 170 MPs: 98, against 72, abstentions. The motion is accepted. I am now voting on a bill amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 054-01-86, tabled by Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. Vote 172 MPs: 23, against 130, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u268	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u269	Mr. Tzipov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u270	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My procedure is to extend the working hours of the plenary until today's agenda is exhausted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u271	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Krasimir Tsipov. Vote 158 MPs: 112 against 35, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Let's move on to the next point: TERMINATION OF THE FULL POWER OF THE PRESENT OF THE CENTRAL ELECTRONIC COMMISSION. I will introduce you to Mrs. Stoeva's application to the President of the Central Election Commission to the President of the National Assembly Ms. Karayancheva. "Dear Mrs Karayancheva, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, by decision of the National Assembly of 20 March 2019 on the basis of art. 84 t. 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 46, para. Art. 4 and art. 47, para. 2, p. 1 of the Election Code I have been elected President of the Central Election Commission with effect from 21 March 2019. I declare that I am resigning for personal reasons and on the grounds of art. 51, para. 2, p. 1 of the Election Code, I ask the National Assembly to terminate my term of office as President of the Central Electoral Commission. I'll introduce you. Project! DECISION terminating the power of the President of the Central Election Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 51, para. 2, p. 1 of the Election Code HAS DECIDED Ends Stefka Savova Stoeva's authority as Chairman of the Central Election Commission. Mr. Zarkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u272	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will be very brief, I will not have a bad word against the President of the Central Election Commission in resignation. Naturally, we must respect her will. We have already mentioned in the transitional debate that the reasons are as personal as well as professional, but she has taken on her duty and has done so far. Even leaving it can also be interpreted as an act of dignity. I take the floor to say this important thing, I think. We will support Judge Stoeva's wish to leave the post held, but I address you as President and the majority as the main responsible political force that he must very quickly begin the procedure for the election of a new president of the Central Election Commission. This body should not now be left in a weightless position and in ambiguities in the way it will work, because you want or do not want, the elections are knocking on the door and it is not and it is not one of the main bodies, together with the Council of Ministers, who is taking care of their conduct, to be left in the situation in which it is now. And another appeal to the government, whatever it is: whether it's a Central Election Commission or another body, when you take responsibility for being part of the executive, you have to be able to work with all the authorities, not try to hide from the more complicated issues.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u273	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Karadayi, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u274	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we will also support Mrs. Stoeva's wish and support the proposed draft decision. There is another important issue which is already being produced by this decision, which is until the election of the new president of the Central Election Commission what is happening and who is the chairman. In our opinion, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, the President-in-Office of the CEC must be Vice-President of the ruling coalition, in order to be clear the responsibility of the government for producing fair, free and democratic elections, regardless of when they are. Because the organizational and technical preparation of the elections is carried out by the executive power. However, my call is: do not hide and transfer this responsibility to someone else as you normally do. But on the occasion of this resignation, I address Mrs. Karayancheva. Ms. Karayancheva, at least this resignation should remind you that you have failed to fulfil your duties for more than one year and thus put at risk the legitimacy of the choice which constitutes the state authorities provided for in the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. For more than one year, you have not submitted to the House for consideration the signal of incompatibility of a member of the Central Election Commission. The incompatibility signals shall be dealt with by the appointing authority as is currently being examined and the resignation submitted by the appointing authority. You, Ms. Karayancheva, playing hide and seek, do not know whether you are aware of how you are putting the legitimacy of the decisions of the Central Election Commission, the legitimacy of the elections produced, the choice of the state and local authorities that we choose through these elections and everything that follows from this. If you realize and understand what you've done with your inaction, you will resign without anyone asking for it and without asking anyone. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u275	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. Are there any lines and speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the draft decision presented to you. Please, voting mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u276	Vote 147 MPs: for 145, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: PROJECT OF THE PERSONAL CHANGE DECISION IN THE MINISTERAL COUNCIL OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. I'm proposing Mrs. Ahladova's admission to the Chamber. Please, voting mode. Vote 138 MPs: 132, against 2, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please invite Mrs. Ahladova to the hall. Go ahead, Mr. Svilensky. I even know what procedure it's gonna be. If you want me to do the procedure. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u277	Thank you, Madam President. It seems that today we will have to exhort ourselves several times and do a useful work together, and I propose, and you call, assign, ask Mr. Borisov to come to the National Assembly. [[Comments from GERB. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Borisov is also afraid of the new hall. Tell Mr. Borisov that there is a corridor between the Council of Ministers and this building, and he may come undisturbed by anyone. We asked for Mr. Borisov and he sent us six ministers. With all due respect, Madam President, the issues to be addressed in today's personal changes are not to Mr. Borisov, neither to Mr. Dimitrov, nor to the Minister of Culture, nor to the Minister of Economy. Mrs. Avramova, good afternoon! We have questions for you about the toll system, but they will be asked later.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u278	Not later, but tomorrow, when we have parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u279	So, Madam President, please call Mr. Borisov, give the MPs a five-minute rest. Here's the chair waiting for him, he'll probably have the opportunity to sit down so that he can come and attend the discussion of personal changes. I hope for the last time today to invite Mr. Borisov, but also make an effort as President of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u280	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. I've contacted Mr. Borisov and he has no chance to come. That's why Mrs. Zaharieva is here, who is Deputy Prime Minister. She will present Mrs. Ahladova's candidacy and Mr. Kirilov's release. Here you go, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u281	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I can tell you that after a reporter's call to me, I'm guessing that a lot of my colleagues have spoken to me in this room. Where they have a particular location, their monitor does not have a sound signal at the moment, they do not have Wi-Fi and are having trouble doing their job. I'm telling you, this is a signal that literally came in minutes ago from the press. And one more thing, let this vote and these debates be broadcast directly on the main channel of National Television and Radio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u282	You're proposing a direct broadcast. Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. We will immediately check the situation with the monitors and WiFi. It is not acceptable for journalists not to be able to hear what is happening in this House and not have the Internet. I'll check immediately and even ask Mr. Hristov to inform the administration immediately so we can see what's going on. I put to the vote Mr. Chenchev's proposal for a direct broadcast of this point on BNT 2 and BNR. Vote 138 MPs: 49, against 54, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Zaharieva to present the draft decision within ten minutes. Here you are, Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u283	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, honourable fellow ministers! In relation to resigned on the grounds of art. 84, p. 6 of the Constitution of the Republic on behalf of the Prime Minister I present to your attention a draft decision of the National Assembly on the release of Danail Kirilov as Minister of Justice and the election of Desislava Ahladova as Minister of Justice. Mrs. Ahladova is a Master of Law and her entire professional career is related to working in the judiciary. As a magistrate, she has developed successively as a candidate for trial, a junior district judge, respectively, in the District and Pernik District Court. He has extensive experience as the administrative head of the Board of Directors first as Deputy Administrative Officer and later as Head of the District Court of Pernik. By decision of the Sofia College of the Supreme Judicial Council she was elected as the administrative head of the Administrative Court of Pernik. On 23 May 2017, she was appointed by the Prime Minister as Deputy Minister of Justice. On the basis of the above, I propose that the National Assembly adopt the draft decision on personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u284	Thank you, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. Just to inform Mr. Chenchev that for a very short time for technical reasons, the broadcast of the signal was stopped on television downstairs in the media room. Everything's been restored, Wi-Fi's working, too. Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u285	Dear Madam President, honourable Madam Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! When a new Minister of Justice is elected in a situation where there are mass protests with a fundamental demand for justice, this should be the subject of particular attention. When this is the second Minister of Justice who is going to a cabinet, this should be sufficient conclusion for his failure in the field. When no word is said at all from those presenting the new proposal why the previous minister left, this can talk about several things: firstly, because they are ashamed of the result of the work in this term, or, secondly, because the reasons are not for expressing. It is very important why one minister is leaving to know what we will require from the next. It's very important to know if he's leaving because he can't write on Facebook or because he can't write a Constitution. It's very important to know if he's leaving because his media behavior is hurting him, or if he's leaving because his law-making ruined our legal system? It is very important that we can go back and look at what has happened in the last three and a half years. Even when this cabinet was elected, we were impressed that the deputy prime minister in charge of judicial reform would be our foreign minister. Admit it, this is not a very logical combination of vice-premiere, foreign minister, internal judicial reform, unless we assume that we will be making judicial reform for foreigners. Only we couldn't explain it to these foreigners either. Despite our political closeness with the previous President of the European Commission and his rather frivolous promise that everything will be fine until the end of his mandate, the monitoring of Bulgaria remained formally in force, and despite repeated repetition that it has dropped out, the truth is that it is not. But even if the monitoring fails, the deep reasons that make people believe and know that things are not going well in Bulgaria in the justice system. And in a country where the justice system is not good, nothing can be good. What happened in the last few years? I can set out, for sure, until the end of our extended meeting, the various small and major problems that have shaken the Justice Ministry by the collapse of the Registry Agency, through the vague reforms, through the state and the continuous browsing in the Directorate-General for Implementation and Punishment, the Directorate-General for Security, through the promises that have been given and not fulfilled, through the way in which both the legislative directorate and important departments have been dealt with, such as those representing our country before the Strasbourg Court of Justice, on the implementation of the judgments of the Strasbourg Court of Justice and on what else. However, perhaps we should say the following: no minister, he was the greatest, cannot carry out a reform like that in justice, which is required in Bulgaria, if there is no government that, first, knows what wants to happen there, second, to have the will to carry it out, and, thirdly, to shake the fear that something bad might happen to him. None of these three prerequisites exist in this government and whoever you choose today as a minister, its failure is pre-set because we are looking at a point for personal changes in the Council of Ministers, and the truth is that the changes that Bulgaria needs are not personal, but general, and they require people who know what needs to be done and have the courage to explain it first and then do it. You, ladies and gentlemen, are not these people! [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u286	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. [[Reply from the National Representative Yavor Bozhankov.]] I closed the debate, Mr. Bojankov. You will have a negative vote, Mr. Bojankov. Project! DECISION for personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in connection with the decision of the National Assembly on the election of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria on 4 May 2017. (DV, No. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). Decision of the National Assembly on personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 10 November 2017. (DV, No. 91 from 2017) , Decisions of the National Assembly on Personal Changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 20 September 2018. (DV, No. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). Decision of the National Assembly on personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 21 November 2018. (DV, No. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). Decision of the National Assembly on personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 20 December 2018. (DV, No. 107 from 2018) Decision of the National Assembly on personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 5 April 2019. (DV, No. 29 from 2019) Decision of the National Assembly on personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 15 May 2019. (DV, No. 40 from 2019) Decision of the National Assembly on personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 3 December 2019. (DV, No. 96 from 2019) Decision of the National Assembly on personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 15 January 2020. (DV, No. 5 from 2020) and the decision of the National Assembly on personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 24 July 2020. (DV, No. 67 from 2020) HAS DECIDED 1. He released Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov as Minister of Justice. 2. He elected Desislava Hristova Ahladova-Atanasova as Minister of Justice. Please, voting mode. Vote 144 MPs: 98 against 45, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Congratulations to Mrs. Ahladova! Will there be a negative vote? Here you go, Mr. Bojankov. [[Part of the Members of the National Assembly shall leave the Chamber.]] Colleagues, let's wait for Mrs. Ahladova's oath.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u287	Madam President, honourable Members! I voted against it because it is strange the behaviour of people who have very important functions in the current situation. Everyone leaves in silence, everyone leaves in fear like they're leaving some mafia organization without motive and without saying why? I claim that these two resignations are in direct causal relationship with your failed draft for a new Constitution and your failed draft for amendments to the Election Code. But apparently no one has the courage to say it, so no one enjoys these two resignations. One is the resignation that will delight the Bulgarian citizens, and it belongs to the Prime Minister. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u288	Not all citizens! Here you are, Mrs. Ahladova, so you can swear. Colleagues, please stand up. Repeat after me. [[Everyone gets up.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u289	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u290	Congratulations! Colleagues, please take your seats. I give the floor to the Minister of Justice, Mrs. Ahladova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u291	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I just want to thank you for my responsibility. I hope I can justify your trust! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-03.u292	Thank you. Good luck to you. Parliamentary Control Communication on 4 September 2020, Friday: 1. The Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov will answer three questions from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Nona Yotova; Anna Slavova; and Valentina Naydenova and Filip Popov. 2. The Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov will answer a question from the MPs Nikola Dinkov and Violeta Jeleva. 3. The Minister of Economy Lachezar Borisov will answer two questions from the MPs Rumen Gechev; and Georgi Gokov. On the basis of art. 96, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, delaying a reply by seven days has asked: - Minister of Culture Boel Banov to a question with a written answer from the MP Chavdar Velinov. Due to the use of sick leave, the Minister for Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Due to the use of annual leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will not participate. For lack of respectable reasons, Members of the National Assembly shall postpone the responses to: - one question from the MPs Dragomir Stoinev, Anton Kutev and Krum Zarkov to Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev; - a question from the National Representative Krastina Taskova to the Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov; - a question from the National Representative Dimitar Georgiev to the Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov. That concludes the agenda for today. Tomorrow's regular plenary session, 4 September 2020, Friday. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
