ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u1	We have a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Let's start with: FIRST VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE STATE BUDGET OF BULGARIA FOR 2020 Importer is the Council of Ministers. For the Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance Mrs. Stoyanova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, I ask for a procedure to be admitted to the Chamber by the representatives of the Ministry of Finance: Mrs. Marinela Petrova Deputy Minister, Mrs. Gergana Beremska Director of the International Financial Institutions and Cooperation Directorate and Mr. Metodiev Director of the Economic and Financial Policy Directorate and Mr. Petar Vitanov MEP.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u3	Thank you. I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 151 MPs: for 149, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u4	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020, No 002-01-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 June 2020. At a meeting held on 24 June 2020, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance: Marinela Petrova Deputy Minister, Gergana Beremska Director of the International Financial Institutions and Cooperation Directorate, Petya Kuzeva Director of the Government Debt Directorate and Methodiev Director of the Economic and Financial Policy Directorate. The bill was presented by Ms. Marinela Petrova. The Bill proposes amendments to the provisions of the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020 on state guarantees that the Council of Ministers may issue during the current year, namely Articles 70a and 71. The proposed changes are related to the commitments of the Republic of Bulgaria to the two instruments created at EU level (EU) in response to the pandemic of COVID-19, namely: 1. European Temporary Support Instrument to mitigate unemployment risks in exceptional circumstances (SURE). This instrument constitutes financial support to Member States to cover a sudden increase in public expenditure resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic in order to mitigate unemployment risks, reduce health risks and ensure safe working conditions. The total budget of the instrument is 100 billion. EUR, with financial assistance being granted in the form of a loan. The European Commission will raise funds from the financial markets to provide them subsequently to the Member States. In order to raise these funds, a commitment from the Member States is required to provide a counter-guarantee for the European Union's risk of a total of 25 billion. Euros. The amount of the security required by each country shall be proportionate to the relative share of its gross national income in the European Union. The granting of a guarantee by each State shall be regulated in an individual guarantee agreement concluded between the European Commission and the Member State under art. 11 of Council Regulation (EU) 2020/672 of 19 May 2020 (OJ L 316, p. 1).' With this guarantee agreement, the Republic of Bulgaria will undertake to provide, upon request, irrevocable and unconditional guarantees of a maximum amount of 107 million. 466 thousand. EUR 500 (210 million) 186,000. 204,70 BGN) of the total guarantees in the EU reaching 25 billion. Euros. 2. A pan-European guarantee fund of 25 billion. Euros. The Fund aims to provide guarantees under operations to the European Investment Bank and the European Investment Fund in support of small and medium-sized enterprises, medium-sized enterprises, corporations and public enterprises to address the crisis. The fund is expected to mobilise up to 200 billion. EUR additional target liquidity and short-term capital support to the European economy. The Fund shall be financed by the Member States of the European Union with their contribution in the form of irrevocable, unconditional guarantees at first request that will cover the losses and related costs incurred in the implementation of operations financed by the European Investment Bank and the European Investment Fund. The contribution of participating Member States to the Pan-European Guarantee Fund is intended to be governed by an agreement on a contribution to be concluded between the Member State concerned and the European Investment Bank. The amount of the contribution of each participating Member State to the Fund will be determined as a percentage of the total amount of the Pan-European Guarantee Fund corresponding to the share of the Member State in the capital of the European Investment Bank. Bulgaria's share in the capital of the European Investment Bank amounts to 0,21% and the guarantee will therefore amount to 51 million. 251 thousand. EUR 027,24 (100 million) 238 thousand. BGN 296,60.). The Pan-European Guarantee Fund will be set up and started its operations after agreements on contributions with Member States whose total share in the capital of the European Investment Bank is at least 60% are signed. The proposed changes to the provision of art. 70a of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020 provides for an opportunity within the year for the Council of Ministers to issue state guarantees by concluding a guarantee agreement at first request with the European Investment Bank in relation to the contribution agreement with regard to the Pan-European Guarantee Fund in response to the COVID-19 and a guarantee agreement with the European Commission under the European Temporary Support Facility to mitigate unemployment risks in exceptional circumstances due to the outbreak of COVID-19. This requires an increase in the maximum amount of the amount provided for in art. 71 of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020 limit on the new state guarantees, which can be issued in the year, of 1535 million. lv. At 1845,1 million. lv. Agreements on the two new instruments of the European Union are subject to ratification by a law of the National Assembly. After the discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020, No 002-01-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 June 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u5	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. My fellow Members, I am opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Gechev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Our parliamentary group of BSP, of course, will support this project, first because it stems from the Constitution and the Budget Act. Reasonably, the government wants the consent of the Bulgarian Parliament to take additional state guarantees that were not provided for in the budget, but which result from a decision of the European Union, last of the months of April and May, and are related to overcoming the severe economic consequences of the problems with the coronavirus. We support because the first project related to Bulgaria's participation with 51 million. 251 thousand. The euro is related to the so-called Pan-European Investment Fund, which will be implemented through the European Investment Bank and which will be addressed to 65%, to small and medium-sized companies that are dominant in the Bulgarian economy as a number and share in the production of gross domestic product. In addition, the means of this programme on a mutual basis may also be directed towards public companies and other organisations which need such support. Apart from the problems with the economies of the countries, of course, they also reflect on the problems of employment. Therefore, the European Union's programme for additional funding by raising funds on the financial markets and helping EU member states who have problems with providing budget expenditure with increased unemployment can also and should be of benefit to Bulgaria and our guarantee amounts to 107 million. 466 thousand. EUR or total state guarantees 158 million 717 thousand. Euros, approximately. We want to say that, first of all, we assume guarantees in which the Bulgarian State assumes 100% responsibility for covering these funds in case one of the beneficiary countries cannot repay its debts. Second, however, we want you to bear in mind, honourable Members, and we particularly address the government that participation in the formation of these guarantees, depending on the first case of the European Investment Bank, with the share of Bulgaria, as it was said, 0.21% of the capital of the European Investment Bank, and in the case of the second programme relating to the share of Bulgaria's gross domestic product in the European Union, does not in any way guarantee that we will benefit from these programmes if the Bulgarian government does not develop relevant, pay attention to competitive programmes, as these funds, although on a loan basis, will be distributed on a competitive basis. And the decision on who and what funds will perhaps receive, thank God, will be taken outside Bulgaria, but the projects are being developed by Bulgaria. That is why, in the Budget Committee, we at the BSP raised the issue and warned the government most cohesively that we will expect them to propose concrete projects in the near future, so that at the time of the implementation of the projects and guaranteeing Bulgaria, our society, our economy will benefit from these advantages. We support the measures taken by the European Commission, which are aimed both at the European economy and the Bulgarian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. Are there any lines? We continue with other speeches. Colleagues, I don't see any other speeches. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020, No 002-01-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers. 125 MPs voted: 125, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Stoyanova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since in Mr. Gechev's speech, which I listened to very carefully, I did not hear any requests for proposals, I take advantage of the opportunity given to us in the Rules, and on the grounds of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the bill be examined at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u9	Thank you. I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 131 MPs: 130, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please continue with the presentation of the texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u10	Thank you. THE LAW OF THE amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020 § 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 70a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. They're creating an al. 2 and 3: The Council of Ministers may issue State guarantees by concluding a guarantee agreement at first request with the European Investment Bank in relation to the contribution agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank with regard to the Pan-European Guarantee Fund in response to the COVID-19 amounting to the amount of EUR 51 251 027,24. (3) The Council of Ministers may issue state guarantees by concluding a guarantee agreement with the European Commission pursuant to art. 11 of Council Regulation (EU) 2020/672 of 19 May 2020 establishing a European Temporary Support Instrument to mitigate the risks of unemployment in exceptional circumstances (SURE) resulting from the outbreak of COVID-19 (OB, L 159 of 20 May 2020) up to the remaining equivalent of EUR 107 466 500. § 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 71 the number "supplied' is replaced by "supplied'. Final provision § 3. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u11	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Hey, guys, any speeches? I can't see. We are going to vote on the following texts: first text.. the name of the Law on Import; second text... the contents of § 1 by Import; third text... the contents of § 2 by Import; next text: Final provision.... the name of the division; and the contents of § 3 by Importer. 140 MPs voted: 140, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted. Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I ask for another procedure for extending the period between the first and second reading of the Law amending and supplementing the Gambling Act submitted by Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. Please extend the deadline by another eight days.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u13	Thank you. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Menda Stoyanova. They voted 137 MPs: 110, none, abstention 27. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we'll continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions for the period from 18 June to 25 June were not received. I will also provide the written answers from: - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on a question from the National Representative Valentin Radev; - Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov on a question from the National Representative Dessislava Atanasova; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Boychev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Polina Tsankova; - Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov on a question from the National Representative Polina Tsankova; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Philip Popov; - Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov on a question from the MPs Georgi Gokov, Manol Genov, Veska Nencheva, Dragomir Stoinev and Georgi Tarnovalyski; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on two issues from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to two questions from the National Representative Anna Slavova; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov on a question from the National Representative Anton Kutev; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova on a question from the National Representative Nikolai Tishev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Georgi Stoilov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova. Colleagues, we are continuing with a question for Mr. Tomislav Donchev, Deputy Prime Minister. He will answer a question from the MPs Kristina Sidorova and Polina Shishkova on road safety in the context of the work of the State Agency. Mrs. Sidorova, you have the floor to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u14	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, the number of victims on the Bulgarian roads is increasing, the number of serious accidents and the number of victims in them is increasing. And this is not a dry statistic, this is not another data at the end of a reporting period. These are human victims, these are heavy fates. For a year and a half in our country, another state agency has been developing this road safety. You briefed us on the results of her work in your response very soon. There we see that against a budget of nearly 2 million. $100,000. lv. it has completed a large volume of administrative activity. What does that mean? Analyses, reports, contests, advertising campaigns. But what effect does this work have? None at all! What do we see in the so-called reports? We see that there are no roads that are dangerous for our country; we see that there are no marks to be taken to make these roads less dangerous to reduce the number of victims. However, the Agency does not lack self-esteem. In its 2019 report, we read: In the Agency's face, the state already has a specialized body that is able to meet specific needs by putting the necessary solutions in a short horizon of time. Because for its period of existence, the Agency has failed to meet any specific needs, has failed to offer any adequate solution to the huge problem of accidents and victims on the road. In this regard, my question to you is: outside analyses, reports, competitions for posters, drawings, what should change in the work of the Agency
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u15	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sidorova. You have the floor to answer, dear Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u16	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Sidorova, there are several false assumptions in your question, without underestimating the need to ask me such a question. Firstly, a one-year period is more sufficient to form and start working a newly created unit, the second is related to the functions of the Agency. You are making a direct mistake, confusing its functions with the work of the Road Infrastructure Agency. You are making a direct mistake by confusing its functions with the work of the Road Infrastructure Agency. I remind you historically that we are probably from the last countries in the European Union that we have created a similar unit. In most countries such units exist because of the need for a complex approach in terms of road safety and fragmented policies divided between the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, in so far as it is the principal of the Office of the Road Infrastructure, the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Agriculture. In this sense, the one-year period is more enough for such a unit to structure itself and start working rather than asking a question about what needs to be changed. In addition, you are not right in assuming that the Agency for this period has only done analyses, references and so on. She is in her main role as a political maker, a policy-making, norm-making unit. I will take this opportunity to introduce you to some of the proposals made in this direction. Together with the Ministry of Interior, the Agency has drawn up a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Violations and Penalties, as well as the Road Traffic Act, which will soon be on the National Assembly's attention. In addition, an interdepartmental working group was formed under the management of the Agency with the participation of all the competent authorities for the establishment of a National Centre for Road Safety, which operates in 24/7 mode and has results. I will not comment that in just a few months a comprehensive review of the regulations has been developed throughout the European Union to regulate the movement of individuals with individual electric vehicles. The Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Law on Road Transport and the Law on Road Traffic, which will also be on the attention of the National Assembly very soon. Ordinance No 2 of 2001, Ordinance No 18 of 2001, Ordinance No 5 of 2003 are also regulations which, under the management of the Agency, have been amended in favour of road safety. Most importantly, we expect the launch of the Project under Operational Programme "Regional Development" and, of course, together with the "Railway Infrastructure" Agency, which will play out the possible solutions in terms of the sections with the concentration of accidents and the search for an innovative solution on how to reduce traffic accidents there. Back in the years, the Road Infrastructure Agency has tried all possible answers. A change in the situation or organization of the movement, a new sign farm. Thanks to this project, we rely on the areas where there is an incident concentration to seek new innovative solutions in relation to the best European practices. I would like to point out with regard to the beginning of your question, you are using incorrect data. If you compare the first half of 2019 with the first half of 2020, the number of incidents and the number of victims falls. I don't want to speculate on the data because it's possible the interpretation that this is about the pandemic. Your finding that the number of victims and road accidents is increasing is not accurate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u17	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. The line, Mrs. Shishkova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u18	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! Dear Minister, from your reply we have heard another dose of information about what the Agency has done. Analyses, reports, even advertising campaigns, but, unfortunately, we have not heard the most important: when will the Agency provide working and effective measures? Here the main goal is to reduce the victims of the road, which we do not see realized in the proposals made, which will not actually produce the necessary results. The main thing is that a whole new legislation is required in this area. The proposal of the Agency and the Ministry of Interior for amendments to the Law lacks logic and interconnection between individual penalties and fines in relation to the degree of public danger. An example of this is that in the main texts it is set not to take away the driver's license, which do not have the compulsory insurance. Here we believe that when control and sanctification provisions are dropped, they must be replaced by others to provide an effective control system. Furthermore, it is written in the reasons of the Law that the introduction of European legislation is not envisaged. It seems to me that at least effective European measures must be put in place. It is essential that efforts be aimed at increasing the knowledge and skills of drivers, as road safety is also the responsibility of the whole society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Shishkova. Mr. Donchev, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u20	I understand from your reaction that you haven't heard what I'm saying. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The proposals for changes in legislation follow a completely different logic. In the years back, the most primitive logic was usually followed. The increase in the amount of sanctions as a form of prevention. That's the wrong logic. I am not saying that the amount of sanctions should be reduced, rather what we need to focus on, what we need to invest in is their inevitability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Donchev. Thank you for your participation in control today. We continue with discussions on the questioning by the MPs Rumen Gechev and Georgi Svilenski to the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on the new concept of gambling taxation declared by the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov in 2016. The question by the MPs Rumen Gechev and Georgi Svilenski was answered at the meeting on June 19, Friday. At the same meeting 62 MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) submitted a proposal for a debate on the questioning together with a draft decision. The debates are scheduled by the President of the National Assembly for the next parliamentary control meeting. The proposal for questions and the draft decision were sent to the Members of the National Assembly in electronic form on 19 June 2020. A second draft of a decision by 9 MPs from the political party GERB parliamentary group on June 24th, Wednesday, and was sent on the same day to the MPs in electronic form. We have two draft solutions. Mr. Gechev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u22	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! We propose a draft resolution related to the debates that have been initiated on the problems with the hundreds of millions of dollars not collected from the sector "Hazart" for the benefit of the Bulgarian budget, which reads as follows: Within 10 July 2020, the Minister of Finance shall provide the National Assembly with detailed information on the budget receipts from fees and taxes from the gambling sector, including the contribution of the individual licensed companies for the last five years. It is very important to ask for the contribution of individual companies because, ladies and gentlemen, we have information, arguments and facts with which we believe that so far both Parliament and the public have been misled that only a certain group of companies in this sector have benefited preferences from the Bulgarian state. And since BSP likes to talk to the facts, these facts are seen from the audit report of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Bulgaria from that day under No 0600200519 in a volume of 162 pages. Colleagues to congratulate them have done a great analysis of the gambling sector and have shown how with the laws introduced by the ruling party GERB and their satellites, and from this government have introduced rules and norms that have put the participants in the gambling sector in unequal conditions so that some go to loss and others win. Who goes to loss according to the national Court of Auditors of Bulgaria from that day on "independent National Institute"? It is going to loss the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer, which has been bled out for five years, decapitalized. This is where the Court of Auditors' conclusions are categorical. For example, on page 8: The legal framework does not provide equal market conditions for carrying out the activities of the State-owned enterprise, the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer, adequate to those in which the private competitors of the enterprise operate. On page 9: "This undertaking shall annually report a negative financial result (loss) for the period 2014 - 2018 inclusive. There is a trend for a permanent reduction in its own capital, which is also observed after the period under review. On page 13: The activity of the State-owned enterprise is not sufficiently effective and efficient mainly as a result of the strong competition of private gambling organizers who have regulatory market advantages compared to the State-owned enterprise. On page 18 of the Audit Report, I quote: "In accordance with the Economic Cooperation and Development Organisation's guidelines, this is the organisation of the most developed market economies, the regulatory framework should not unduly discriminate against state-owned enterprises compared to their market competitors. However, with the Law adopted on 5 December 2014 and the relevant legal documents, the State-owned company was led to bankruptcy. It paid 15 percent of the bets, while the other geeks, I'd say, paid 15 percent on the corresponding net differences. So, honourable Members, we propose that Parliament be aware of such information, as the budget losses are much more than 700 million. lv. Here are hidden companies that have also not paid fees and other budget obligations and, obviously, these companies are covered by the government. We have facts that we will present to the public that many of these companies are related to persons close to the ministers personally, to the Prime Minister, including colleagues in the National Assembly Dear colleagues, on 29 May this year, colleague Goranov said here that the State Gambling Commission had carried out 3137 checks and had not found the discrimination that the Court of Auditors found, did not understand that different fees were being paid, did not understand that hundreds of millions of levs were not included in Bulgaria's budget?! It was said by colleague Goranov that the National Revenue Agency has carried out 812 checks and nothing has seen these are two and several checks per year that hundreds of millions are leaking into the pockets of an organized crime group and how the umbrella was provided! We can't accept the apology that the State Gambling Commission hasn't seen that the gambling sector is shredded some don't pay fees, some pay fees, some pay fees, others pay other fees and divide money. The Agency for State and Financial Inspection, honourable Members, has not carried out a single inspection in five years of the State Gambling Commission. The State Gambling Commission makes thousands of meaningless checks, including the National Revenue Agency, in which in five years they have imposed fines of BGN 2 million and several, with which they cannot pay the coffee in these agencies and verifiers, while providing an umbrella. Obviously, it was forbidden for the State Financial Inspection Agency to enter the Gambling Commission. Well the Gambling Commission, which regulates this sector, is a representative of the government there are two deputy ministers: the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Justice, there is a senior officer from the National Revenue Agency, there is the largest boss of the National Revenue Agency. They should all be appointed after careful research by the Minister of Finance. So we said: they are either full ladybugs, or they do not know what they are doing, which is excluded, or they are very good professionals who, however, are under this nice umbrella, which hides the leak of budget funds in private pockets. We see that on June 19th, colleague Goranov, you said the following in connection with § 16 of the Gambling Act, which we obliged you to implement, this is a law, you answer: Very interesting. So, you're going to do the Law. That's the right thing to do. You do an analysis and by doing an analysis, you claim that it shows you that the Law is very good, then you make a new concept and a new model. May I ask where the logic is here? You've found that the model is very nice, and you're offering a new model?! Secondly, you, Mr. Goranov, have decided to fail to comply with the Law single-handedly. Who gives you that right? Here in black and white is recorded in your reply you say that you have decided not to import. So you don't import, you don't comply with the Law in front of the Council of Ministers. We are obliged the Council of Ministers, not directly the Ministry of Finance. But you decided after comparative analysis that you wouldn't import. That is, Mr. Goranov, you have placed yourself above the Council of Ministers, above parliament and the result is that the money is gone. So we want you to give an analysis for all licensed companies in the gambling sector what fees, what other budgetary claims they have provided for the five-year period, because colleagues from GERB offer a very interesting editing. You also offer detailed information, pay attention to the number of gambling organizers as well as the budget receipts. So you're hiding the specific companies. So, in total, how much is the income, how is gambling on the island of Tasmania, for example? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] No, no! The Bulgarian Socialist Party wants all the companies from the gambling here.. what they contribute to the budget, in what form, how much money is hidden so that we can know how much more money will come out of these big and exciting drawers. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. Mr. Gechev, thank you, I assume you'll have another statement. My request to you as the host today is: unsubstantiated allegations and unsupported suggestions... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u24	No censorship. No censorship, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u25	Look, an organized crime group and other things, they don't prove themselves in plenary, so please be careful, I understand.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u26	Please don't censor the speeches.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u27	Mrs. Stoyanova, you have the floor to present the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. GERB Parliamentary Group proposes the following Project! DECISION in connection with the debate on questioning, No 054-05-26, of 3 June by the MPs Professor Rumen Gechev and Georgi Svilenski to the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a new concept of gambling taxation declared by the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov in March 2016. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED By 10 July 2020, the Minister of Finance shall submit to the National Assembly detailed information on the number of gambling organisers and on the budget receipts from fees and taxes from the gambling sector for the last five years. The draft decision that we propose, in its main part, actually overlaps and supports the draft decision of BSP colleagues, with the only difference being that this information on budget revenue from fees and taxes will not be made public by individual licensed operators. The reason we make this correction, first, is to comply with the Law as it requires. We all know that this is tax insurance information and its detailed public disclosure is in violation of the Law, so that we do not make a decision of the parliament that will break the Law. That's our first motive. However, I would also refer to other reasons by which Mr. Gechev just based their proposal and they are mainly contained in the fact that the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer was at a loss and, according to one definition given by the auditors by the Court of Auditors, was placed in an unequal position against the other operators, with which we cannot categorically agree the level playing field of the state enterprise and the activity that it can carry out within the gambling sector is absolutely predestined by the texts of the Gambling Act. And just because someone has not complied with the texts of this law correctly does not mean that there is inequality and that someone has not controlled the fact that one applies the Law in one way, as it is written in the texts in the case of the State Sports Totalizer, and another who has applied the Law "free work" cannot be a motive for requesting such information. The fact that the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer is at a loss over the years is due only to the bad management of this enterprise. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You yourself said here just now that they had serious competition. Well, yes, it is a competitive environment, and the state enterprise has a right and an obligation, as long as it exists in a sector, to fight in this competitive environment. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Because the main motive that you didn't form that it was the Law that put in a disadvantage and the possibility of this management not doing its job is simply not true. I would like to say that the texts of the Law should be applied equally by all gambling operators, and that is why there is a Gambling Commission whose duty is to control who applies the Law and which taxes and fees it declares and imports. You quoted a date "December 2014," which, in your opinion, is the date on which a change of the Law providing for this inequality was made. I strongly disagree with this because I would like to tell you that this amendment, which was made in December 2014, only complements the text of the Law adopted December 2013, and one of the importers of this text is you, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u29	This text is not Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u30	In this text, which you then submitted together with a group of MPs, and we from GERB supported in the Chamber so that there could be enough revenue in the budget and smooth passage of online operators, legal inclusion of online operators, lotteries, bingo and keno were dropped. What we did in December 2014. The date that you mentioned is only in the text in force in the Law to add the lotteries you have lost. The bingo, keno and their varieties, which for the entire year 2014 have not paid any fees for their activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u31	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Colleagues, just a reminder: the time is according to art. 105, para. Article 2 and shall not apply. 58. You have the floor to speak. I'm opening the debate. Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The issue is really very important and it has become important in recent months, but for us from the parliamentary group it is important from five years ago. I will start with what Mrs. Stoyanova concluded that someone has made a proposal 2013 and the lotteries were dropped and these were the MPs from BSP. Yes, it is, Mrs. Stoyanova, only to return you to 2013. There is no private lottery in Bulgaria. In 2013 there is only a State Lottery in Bulgaria. And the fact that the lotteries were dropped then didn't damage the budget, not a single dollar, because from one pocket the fees would have entered the other pocket. Then, when you amend the Law already 2014 and no longer manages BSP, then the troubles come. Then comes the double standard and I am surprised that you have a face, if I may say, to be an importer of the proposal now, as you are part of the problem. There is no way when you are creating the problem for which six years the state has lost over 700 million. BGN, to give us a solution today. There is no way, when 2015, then and 2016 twice asked the Minister of Finance why he did not comply with the Law, he told me that there was a new Law. Where is this new Gambling Act, Mr. Goranov? Five years! Five years we've been waiting for a new Gambling Act, five years 700 million are missing in the state budget, five years some 60 million are traveling from Moskovska to some party headquarters. That's the result. And it should be known by Bulgarian citizens. Everything else is tying facts, tying events how, why, where... You're talking about tax secrets. You want the total number. Fine, you'll say it: 60, 70, 80 companies. What tax secret is it to tell which company paid how many taxes in the state budget, not somewhere else? This is some kind of tax-security secret where we're going to reveal something very important to these companies! Well, Bulgarian citizens need to know! Is the budget a secret thing? Or do you want to hide for the next five years, another 700 million not in the budget? And here we're talking 15 for 20 million. We wonder where we can find them, whether it's for doctors or teachers, whether it's for pensioners. Well, when we were looking at the budget of the state, the colleagues from "United Patriarchs" asked why they didn't make the minimum pension 300 BGN, they said: 500 million. Well, here's 500 million. Then my colleagues told me, how will you find them? Here they are, 500 million. You have diverted 700 million from the state budget and no one is responsible! In a normal European country, honourable Members, by now the government would have left, the Prime Minister would not have been riding in the jeep and traveling on the roads, but would have been elsewhere because he had wronged the state with 700 million. With him, perhaps they should have gone away and the ministers who allowed these things. In Bulgaria, this is something normal, something that can be covered by a project for a solution in which to be told the number of operators who gamble. We don't care about that issue. We are interested in the money they have imported, and rather the money they have not imported, which some have imported, and others have not imported. The Bulgarian Sports Totalizer was placed in such a competitive environment that he could not win, but others could win. Because, I say again, 60 million have travelled from Moscow to party plants. And no one gives answers to these things either.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u33	Mr. Svilensky...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u34	Mr. Chairman, I ask you not to replicate or comment on the statements of Members of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u35	I have to.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u36	Your job is only to lead the meeting...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u37	I know what I'm doing.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u38	...not to give qualifications to who can say what.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u39	I'll give you an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u40	If there's anything you want to say, get off this stands and give me a line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u41	I'll come down if I have to.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u42	So, honourable Members, I suggest you accept the draft decision that we have proposed, which is justified, which will shed light on what is happening, and I am waiting for an answer from the Minister of Finance: why has the Gambling Act not been submitted to the National Assembly for six years together with the Strategy for Development of Gambling? Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. I tried to pay attention not to use suggestions and unproven facts. That's what I've been trying to tell you, and I have to do it. [[Relation from the National Representative Dimitar Danchev.]] I'll give you my word, Mr. Danchev. In addition, on your statement, excuse me, but I am obliged to address this in a normal European country, should we understand from your statement that we are an insane European state? [[Reply from the National Representative Anton Kutev.]] - What's the line? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'll give you as long as there's lines, later...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u44	It's me first.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u45	Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u46	Colleague Svilenski, I'm making a line for you because in your speech you said three false things. The first false thing is that there was no lottery until 2013. That's not true! [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] No, on the contrary. I can give you the exact dates. 2009 This is a chance for all of us. The Bulgarian Sports Totalizer. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Please don't yell at me and don't give me any lines! Mr. Chairman, this is your place to intervene, not before.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u47	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u48	... Bulgarian Sports Totalizer. On 20 January 2011, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the March 2012 == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man I'm struggling with the facts of your claim. The second false statement was that I am part of the problem that was created at the end of 2014. I absolutely deny being part of the problem. If you think that the problem is that I have supplemented with my proposal, together with colleagues from GERB, the missing bingo lotteries and keno in the text that you submitted and we supported you in the Chamber at the end of 2013, you will probably come out part of the problem because it is interesting throughout 2014 how many gambling fees have imported all these lotteries that I listed for you just now. [[Applause from GERB.]] The third untruth you said is that we're trying to hide the companies. No, we want to keep the law. I offer you, if for you, whether a company has put into the budget taxes, fees, how much they are, for what period and so on, it is not tax-retrieving information As for the 60 million that you claim to have gone to some power stations, I would like to tell you that you, Mr. Svilensky, of this high tribune, in front of all these cameras are actually trying to formalize a defamation of an indicted fugitive, unproven, unproven, but when it is spoken by a people representative from this tribune and is being transmitted live at the moment, it is actually an attempt to legitimize it, to formalise it and to show that Mr. Bozhkov speaks truths supported by BSP. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Another line? A hole, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, thank you for the line! I just want to tell you that I'm not the one saying that 60 million people have traveled somewhere, but the one who gave them away. I'm just repeating these things and asking a question: were they traveling and where were they going? And I am answering the question.. due to the actions of the ruling majority and government in the last six years. Regarding your other claims, Mrs. Stoyanova, I would like to ask you a question: what was your attitude under the laws of gambling proposed by Mr. Simeonov? How did you act, how did you move them into plenary, when did you bring them in, when did you make them out? My advice, which you are not obliged, of course, to accept, is: when you hear the word "Hazarat" in this House, either not to take any attitude or simply not to attend. It's no use! [[Voices from GERB: "Eee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u51	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. [[(Replication by the People's Representative Menda Stoyanova: "In the manner in which we ……]] You have the floor, Mrs. Stoyanova. I'll give you the floor, colleagues. I'll give you my word! I haven't forgotten, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u52	In the manner of keeping in touch with the backrest... [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) A line from the National Representative Dimitar Danchev.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u53	Okay, hold on! There's no order in the way of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u54	...in which I have a personal concern, unlike other lines. Mr. Svilensky, we've been colleagues with you for many years. In this House the Budget Committee, your colleague is present to you, we have always had a professional debate. You don't have the honor of trying from this tribune... [[(Replies from BSP for Bulgaria "Where is the procedure in the way of conduct?"(See Annex I, Section I.1, to Directive 2008/68/EC)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u55	Mr. Danchev...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u56	The procedure is that Mr. President did not stop this personal attack from this tribune and suggestion which Mr. Svilenski, first of all, tried to make, recognizing Mr. Bozhkov's claims of truth, and, second of all, tried to make to me by indirectly accusing me of having an attitude towards these topics.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u57	Thank you. Mr. Chenchev, you were first.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u58	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I don't know if there is a court in Bulgaria, fortunately, but I will tell you a statement which has been confirmed and it is good that the Minister is here and will hear it. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Exactly the way you're doing it, because Mr. Chairman is also... [[Loud noise.]] Mr. Chairman, you have joined the opinion that the 60 million that are going to party power stations were the opinion of a fugitive. And I will now tell you something that, Mr. Chairman, you must take into account in your opinion. This is the so-called memorable note, Mr. Chairman, in which both sides did not deny it, but confirmed how one resource of 240 million. lv. ...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u59	Mr. Chairman, take his word for it...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u60	...distributed to flying notes...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u61	Mr. Chenchev, I've given you enough time to justify your procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u62	Mr. Chairman, this...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u63	From here on out...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u64	...is a true statement and it is good that the Minister hears it. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u65	Where do you see my place?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u66	To interfere or to...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u67	That's exactly what I was trying to do.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u68	...do not interfere!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u69	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u70	Do you understand me?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u71	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u72	And yesterday you allowed insulting qualifications... [[Strong noise from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u73	Finish, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u74	We're being criticized today...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u75	Finish, please! Mr. Chenchev, this is exactly what I tried to do, and I was extremely uncooperatively interrupted by Mr. Svilensky in his speech. You sit in your seat!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u76	You answer me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u77	That's what I'm doing. In such cases I ask you: listen to this, no matter who is sitting in this place, because he is really careful what is said and tried to help you in this case. Mr. Danchev. Mr. Kutev, I'll give you the floor after that.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u78	Dear Mr. President, I appeal to you because in the last few days I am impressed that sitting in the back seat, you are allowing yourself to make comments regarding the speeches of Members of the National Assembly in the form of some kind of line, which, however, the Rules do not give you the right. The place where you sit does not give you the right to abuse the microphone you use all the time. You are obliged to ensure that the order in the Chamber is respected by the Members of the National Assembly and that different calls and insulting qualifications are not allowed in respect of the Members of the National Assembly, but you are in no way entitled to interrupt the Members of the National Assembly or after his speech to comment on his words. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 156 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly have a whole Section III, which discusses parliamentary conduct and there it is very clear what your powers are, what disciplinary measures you may impose. Follow these rules, otherwise we'll keep it the way we find it best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u79	That sounded a little like a threat to me. Mr. Danchev, I've always tried to be tolerant and follow the rules. Unfortunately, sometimes I have to deal with... Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u80	Before I begin to tell you that in the old days, Guinho Ganev had said that only random passersby rush into the halls of power. [[Radio, laughter from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'm starting with a procedure for now because then I'd like to make a statement. Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. Look, there is no way to limit the MP to saying what he wants and what he thinks should be said by the National Assembly stands. There is no way for you to be either censorship or the person who limits speeches for several reasons. Last but not least, because these unproven allegations you claimed with Mr. Svilensky are actually coming from the prosecution, from the investigation and from whom, in fact, a bunch of facts. We're talking here that tax information couldn't be revealed. How did you show Bozhkov the information?! This information is being leaked throughout the media, and you are telling me that the people's representative cannot speak about it from the National Assembly stand. This is ridiculous! The second thing I'm offering you specifically, I mean, please, when we talk about these things, don't interrupt us. The other thing I want to tell you is that I think it is in the interest of the debate to remove Mrs. Stoyanova from the Chamber because she is obviously nervous about the conversation. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u81	I understand, Mr. Kutev. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Mr. Tsonev before you said a speech. Mr. Tsonev? Here you go, Mr. Kutev. I am obliged to tell you that I really am obliged by the Rules of Procedure, you know it perfectly well, to prevent any words and actions of Members of the National Assembly from being insulted in any way to their colleagues, put in general terms.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u82	Their colleagues, yes!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u83	I strive for this and you cannot deny it!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u84	Okay, thank you. I think we should focus on what's happening right now. There are two people standing here, unfortunately, certain two, the third one is missing. One of them is the Finance Minister, the other is the Chairman of the Financial Commission in the National Assembly since 2014. Both in these periods are the people who answer in practice for the finances in the country. The third one, who is missing, is Boyko Metodiev Borisov, because he is a prime minister and because a person whom the prosecution has accused of 18 charges, as far as I remember, 12 or so, this person claims to have given money to them. He mentions all three of them by name. This man claims to have mentioned all three of them! Right now these two are sitting there telling me that someone, I quote Mrs. Stoyanova, if I'm right: someone wasn't in control, there was bad management in the Totalizer?! Well, wouldn't anyone say who was someone who wasn't in control?! Head of Financial Commission, Finance Minister? Does Borisov know who wasn't in control?! For them, the three have specific charges that they received money from one person who is inside. There's no mafia in the world that hasn't been broken inside. Everywhere there's a mob, the mob breaks down inside. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] One guy comes out of the mob, for one reason or another, starts talking, and that usually leads to a series of arrests. It brings to us a series of violations of legislation, at least for now, in the sense that suddenly a bunch of... [[Loud noise and lines.]] Mr. Chairman, will you make the gentleman there? I don't know which one of them is that they're wearing masks and I can't see them, not to interfere with me, if he wants to come out, order!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u85	It's hard for me too with the masks, but, colleagues, both on the right and on the left, please be tolerant!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u86	Especially the anonymous colleagues, please! I mean, those who have names, come out. Those who don't have names, keep quiet, have no other function in this room anyway. [[(Comments from GERB: Stop with insulting qualifications! You're crossing all limits!]] They're not insulting qualifications! What do you want me to do? Someone's calling from behind?! Come, say, speak! I haven't crossed a line! Boundaries, ladies and gentlemen, were passed when 700 million of the people's money had expired without any of them saying how! Suddenly, the Finance Minister and the Chairman of the Financial Commission found five years later, on the signal of a certain person that this money is gone! All this does not lead to any meaningful action by the government. And you're telling me the borders are crossed! It wasn't the borders that crossed the limits of legality, but in the meantime, the borders of prison had to be crossed! [[Strong noise from GERB.]] The boundaries of the places to limit freedom had to pass. In any country where 700 million of the budget is not available, this is recognised by the Prime Minister and the Minister because, in fact, you started investigations, you say,.............................................................................▪ How did you learn them in the fifth year?! And against the background of all this, there are the people who are responsible for this and who are blaming some other people from 10 years ago! You've run this system for six years, both of you! My suggestion is, no way, I'm telling you, my experience in politics shows: the development of things will not leave you like this! No BSP will not leave you, the citizens will not leave you. [[Comments from GERB: "Which citizens? "]] The fastest possible resignation of a whole series of people among those mentioned is the only thing you can do. You'll do it sooner or later! Make it on time! I'm talking about Stoyanova, Mr. Goranov and Mr. Borisov. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u87	- What's the line? Personal explanation, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u88	Yeah, I'm getting a little nervous because there's a lot of lies being told about this tribune and they keep talking. In this case, I take the floor for a personal explanation because Mr. Kutev once again spoke two untruths against me, which I have no other way to characterize than an attempt at suggestion from this tribune. The first untruth is that Mr. Bozhkov nowhere in his writings, Facebook, did not claim that Menda Stoyanova received from him any money or other benefits. So I beg you very much not to suggest false allegations that have not even been uttered by the gentleman in question! But I think that's your goal. Your goal is to insinuate false allegations and legalize them from this tribune! [[Reply from the National Representative Anton Kutev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u89	You reacted, Mr. Kutev, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u90	The second false statement to me, because I have a personal explanation, is that as President of the Budget Committee, I have not seen for so many years that someone has not imported as much as the Law dictates. I cannot imagine how, in the powers vested in me by the Law and the Rules of the National Assembly, I can exercise control. By the way, both I and all the members of the Commission could exercise control over the actions and omissions of various state authorities, whether customs, the NRA, the C.F.R.S., in this case the gambling that you are putting me in place, and control who performs the control and who monitors the implementation of the Law again the untruth that you are trying to insinuate from this tribune. If these false statements of yours add them to those of the previous, it turns out that there is a special desire of BSP colleagues today, within this hearing, to legalise untruths for the purpose of publishing in the media. And then what difference does it make if you have a sister or not? [[Applause from GERB, single applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. We continue with the speeches. Speeches, coworkers. Mr. Pawnov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u92	There's no mask! Fine!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u93	I'll pay the fine from my pension. Don't worry. I've already figured it out. My request is that they don't call from the auditorium. I have a question for the Minister of Finance. Mr. Minister, if Tsvetlin Naydenov had not made this signal, would he still be continuing the old scheme of work and the payment of taxes and fees? In addition, from 20 December, as far as I know, you have been checking out his firm, Efbet. When will the results come out, because there are also some serious violations? I think he's presenting a protected witness right now. So can you tell me, when were you going to activate yourself through the Gambling Commission to stop all these violations? I have another question for you, colleague. You have introduced one law to limit advertising, the sale of the coupons that the Budget and Finance Committee has sent for notification. You remember? When was the answer received from Brussels that gives you the green light, this law to enter the plenary room again? Was it the beginning of 2019? And why didn't you as an importer bring it in immediately to be accepted and to limit advertising and the sale of coupons? One question to the President of the Budget Committee. When Mr. Simeonov introduced the Nationalization Act of the National Lottery, why didn't you send the Notification Act again when then you were going to nationalization and to... [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u94	Guys, be quiet! I'll give you the floor later.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u95	I don't understand, what are these nerves on some simple questions I'm asking?!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u96	It's all over the room, Mr. Pawnov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u97	Well, we're not here for a four-mile drive, so I'll tell you...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u98	Proceed with the matter, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u99	You just have to be a little more relaxed when you ask questions. So I would like to hear the answers to these questions and then I can make an additional proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u100	Then you cannot, because you have already finished your speech. [[Comments from GERB: "Bolshevik! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u101	Not a Bolshevik, a communist.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u102	See, now you're violating exactly what you were protesting a minute ago, Mr. Pawnov! Are there any lines to Mr. Pawnov? I won't. We continue with the speeches. Here you go, Mrs. Dimova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u103	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Allow me, first of all, from this tribune to express my gratitude for being a member of the Budget Committee and as part of the Parliament, I have the unique opportunity to draw knowledge and experience from you, Professor Gechev. I've always admired your confidence and self-esteem and your courage to blame precisely the state's inaction, and we all know the story. Although Minister Goranov repeatedly answered questions, colleagues, about the activities, facts and duties of the Gambling Commission during parliamentary control in recent months, it is evident that there is still a need to explain. So allow me to brief you. Regarding the State Gambling Commission, I would like to remind you that it is an independent legal person of budgetary maintenance whose activity is organised by a chairman and is assisted by a general specialised administration. It is a specialized state body, a central collegiate body of the executive for the implementation of state oversight of gambling with functions and powers defined in the Gambling Act............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The President of the Commission shall exercise control over the overall activity. As of 1 January 2014, with the amendments to the Commission's Gambling Act entered into force, it has been imposed to administer the state fees under the Law, as in art. 30 fees are regulated for each gambler to pay. Pursuant to the same Article, the same gambling organisers are obliged to submit to the Commission by 15th and declare the fees to be paid and pay them in due time with the submission of the declaration. The President of the Commission shall also be responsible in the Commission for the organisation of imports, production and activities. In accordance with art. 22 of the period 2015 - 2019 The Commission has confirmed the rules presented by the organizers, which they have announced as missionaries. The validation of the rules for organised gambling is intended to detail the provisions of all regulations governing gambling activities. They should specify and specify the legal framework, but cannot contradict or regulate in a different way the public relations already governed by the Law. The preparation and reference of rules contrary to the Law cannot serve as a basis for the payment of a lower state fee than the one established. In conclusion, colleagues, I want to tell you: we in Bulgaria are blessed by God to have four seasons. We have not only Bulgarian summer, Bulgarian spring, Bulgarian autumn and Bulgarian winter, but the laws in Bulgaria must be respected during the four seasons. And taxes must also be paid in the four seasons. I hope that all colleagues, as well as you colleagues on the left, agree with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. The lines, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u105	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Dimova, quoting the functions and activities of the Financial Supervision Commission, you have read probably the first sentence published on the Commission's website, you could also read the second: The main function of the State Commission is to assist the Minister of Finance in the formation, implementation of state policy in the field of state supervision of gambling.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u106	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Another line? Mr. Bikov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u107	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mrs. Dimova, just one supplement. In addition to the Bulgarian winter, we have also a Lucanova winter, and Videnova winter. [[Laughter, applause and shouting]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u108	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Another line? Will you take the back, Mrs. Dimova? No. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Zarkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u109	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, since every insolence must have some boundaries, and when you make a joke about the way you shake the state for months, without being able not to take responsibility even, but to accept a simple mistake, I will try in two or three minutes to justify why my colleague Anton Kutev, who says that government resignation is not only imperative but inevitable, is absolutely right, and beyond the questions. Only by what we all agree on, and by the consequences of these consents. There is a question as to who is responsible for not paying taxes of 700 million. lv.? This question continues to flow. But the fact is, 700 million. lv. They're missing by your admissions. Seven hundred million that were due and not given. This fact, in itself, once we acknowledge that 700 million had to be given and not, leads to the question of responsibility. The question of criminal liability hangs in the appropriate procedures. The issue of political responsibility is inevitable. We may ask ourselves whether the Treasury and others have not collected this money, because the Law has been badly written because someone has taken a bribe because something else, but it is the fact that the very finding that this money has not been collected when the main part of a huge administration is to collect this money and when they have a Commission created, and not an independent Commission, and an aid authority to the Ministry, this fact itself leads to the realization of political responsibility. Political responsibility should be borne by the unwritten laws of politics, but which are no less inevitable than physical, and you will be convinced by the minister of finance. By refusing this to happen, with the firm protection you are doing today, this responsibility goes immediately to the Council of Ministers, the entire Council of Ministers and the ruling majority. It's political silogism that can't be avoided, and you not only reject it, you come here and you joke, you hang back and forth with these or those. What happens from now on? When the political process does not follow its normal logic, it is distorted. Facebook comics, recordings, constant scandals, and it will end as it should end: this cabinet will go away and one of the reasons, whether you admit it or not, is exactly that. And what's this? Non-payment of taxes in particular large amounts. But something bigger is just an example of a prissy state where people with money over the years do whatever they want, buying, pushing or deciding, spinning a majority. And by coincidence, ladies and gentlemen of GERB, this majority is constantly you! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u110	- What's the line? Are there any lines to Mr. Zarkov? Statements? Mr. Gechev, come in!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u111	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, what we have gathered for is very clear and simple, but with exceptional budgetary implications. We offer you a draft solution in which you want to call it a gentleman's, collegiately to provide us with all payments to the budget by the participants in the gambling, this scandalous sector. Mr. Goranov, we've got the numbers. We're waiting to cross-reference them with what you're about to give. Let the Bulgarian public receive official information from the budget. And the fairy tales of how secret each shareholder company publishes its results, just don't mention those things! It's no secret. This is not about market shares and others, this is about after one side has announced what it pays and what it has not paid, we want to see the Bulgarian society see what these companies have paid. So simple and clear! Because you're offering a new umbrella, a second umbrella on this sector. You want to offer us in your decision, colleagues, some general data. You're squeezing the situation. Who are you gonna lie to? Nobody! Therefore, I suggest: support the proposal, it is related to budget revenues. The colleague Goranov will come out, will make a report on the revenues in the Budget Commission, and here and then we will be convinced with facts whether the findings of the National Court of Auditors are correct for inequality, whether only a few companies have not paid, and whether the amount is not 700 million. BGN and more than 1 billion. lv. This is what the Bulgarian Socialist Party in Parliament wants and the Bulgarian public. I invite you: there is no reason for us to come to political opposition here, because if you vote to plaster, to put on a second umbrella, to hide behind national statistics, you will lose, but your choice is yours!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u112	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. - What's the line? I won't. Are there any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u113	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! I think I will make the summary today in relation to the parliamentary procedure used....................................... used by the Bulgarian Socialist Party today.......................................................................................................................... Unfortunately, the opportunity that we had to develop other these and get answers from the Minister of Finance comes down to the use of parliamentary time, media and the attention of Bulgarian citizens, where? To those who fly and fly from distant destinations, more frequently shared in social networks than in Bulgarian institutions as courts and prosecutors, where they should find their answer. Once again, the Socialist Party. "The Bulgarian Socialist Party, unfortunately, from this tribune, makes false statements and a little defense arguments of interesting people for the prosecution. It's not their first time! The other thing that has been said in the previous article has been inserted here, the recently released Report of the Office of State Financial Inspection and their arguments for the debate on the questioning. This debate on asking, fellow Members, you brought it in before this report came out. So I don't believe that you were familiar with its content before you initiated this questioning debate. This debate on asking, fellow Members, we would support it, and we would not have proposed one if it were in line with the Law. And information about a specific amount of public debt, colleagues, you know that can be given on the basis of art. Art. 74, Art. 75 of the D.O.D.K. You want us to force here all MPs, including you, to violate the Law, to oblige the Minister of Finance and the institutions responsible and entrusted to him to violate the Law! Well, no, we're not doing it! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Therefore, we, in support of your initiative, have proposed a draft decision that is legally sustainable and answers the necessary questions. Because Minister Goranov over the past few weeks, even months, has repeatedly responded to your questions, colleagues with every right to be asked, and we have received a lot of information about the sector. Let one, however, who does not violate the Law in the way it is requested, receive it, debate on the basis of it. The submitted Gambling Bill, which we are talking about here: the committee, the committee, have a proposal, colleagues, in it to become a state agency. So, fellow Members, support our proposal for a debate on questioning, namely, the deadline until July 10th, but with the information permitted by the Law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u114	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? I don't see any other speeches. I'm closing the debate. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u115	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will try to structuredly present information that has not been presented in today's debate. And it is, unfortunately, that the problems that have been identified with regard to the actions of the State Gambling Commission are far from starting at the beginning of 2015. If we go back in time, this question is not asked because BSP colleagues have been insistently asking only for the period from 2015 onwards, it will be found that, as from 2013, for many gambling operators, the State Gambling Commission has adopted similar types of rules to enable commission to be applied, again 20% fee on commissions, and not 15% fee on bets received. In this case, this is not important because the then Minister of Finance answered that he was not informed by the State Gambling Commission about the way he applied the Law. What we can focus on, however, is in two directions. Firstly, we could find a solution to satisfy the importers' thesis of this proposal for a decision by providing information on which gambling operators applied a 20% fee on the commission and not 15% fees on the bets received. This will respond to which those privileged or non-privileged ones were, without questioning whether this violates the law on the protection of tax confidentiality. Such a decision, in my opinion, could, if it pleases the colleagues of the Left, give the answers that you make. I cannot miss a few defects that occurred in 2013, which we cannot blame the current ruling majority, and which I assume have given confidence and courage to the Gambling Commission, led from 2013 to 2016 and 2017 by the same person, namely that with the change in legislation in 2013, the majority then abolished the corporate tax regime under the Corporate Income Tax Act and turned gambling into a tax charge for maintaining a licence. I have read the debates carefully why this is proposed. I have not found the reasonable answer, but the consequences, colleagues, are as follows: the state fees, unlike taxes, are not explicitly mentioned in the Penal Code and if someone does not declare or submit a fee, is not pursued by the Penal Code in the way that the person who has not declared and has not paid taxes. Whether this has given the Gambling Commission courage to start mismplementing the Law, colleagues, is an issue that will be examined. Either way, the results are in. So if we want to improve this regime, maybe we should think about continuing to tax. The other thing that has changed significantly since 2013 is that this corporate tax obligation, then administered by the Revenue Administration, i.e. by the NRA, with the change that you are then imposing, you are closing the taxation of gambling in a committee, a collective body, decriminalizing it by changing it into the Law and turning it from tax to tax, and, unfortunately, the weaknesses of this change or the loopholes that this change brings into effect immediately, starting from the beginning of 2014. .. notice to show their result. I have statistics, I have data, and I can inform you who are the companies that have already benefited from the coup d'état of the Law, and the Gambling Commission has duly approved rules that provide for a 20% tax on commissions and not, as should undoubtedly be applied, 15% on collected bets. I don't want to speculate anymore, but what I've noticed is that since the end of last year, this topic has been gaining momentum. Maybe because of the coronavirus, maybe for some other reason you weren't so active in January, February, March, April. Unfortunately, I have already answered nine questions related to this topic, and I cannot understand why your activity has grown exponentially at the moment when a person associated with gambling business in the years began to remotely reveal some facts and circumstances and to give away sound. However, what I can speculate undoubtedly is that the most active participants in today's debate have worked at the Moskovska. And let them deny it! [[Woman cheering from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u116	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u117	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u118	In the manner of holding Mr. Gechev, I will ask you strictly, directly and only to me, without prejudice to anything sideways.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u119	Yeah. Mr. Chairman, you said that you would interrupt the MPs, but this also concerns the ministers when they willingly tell lies. Mr. Goranov...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u120	Not to him, to me!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u121	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Goranov lied about Moskovska. [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]] I've been going by Moscow, for example, to walk. [[GERB screams]] But I don't know, I didn't go in, I had nothing to do with...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u122	Mr. Gechev! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u123	Mr. Chairman, you're not interrupting the minister of finance who's lying!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u124	Mr. Gechev, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u125	Apologize, Mr. Goranov!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u126	In no way were you affected.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u127	Well, how could I not be?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u128	Well, you weren't! [[Strong noise from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u129	You had to make a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u130	You were in no way affected! [[People representatives Rumen Gechev and Stanislav Ivanov exchange lines.]] You just made some personal explanation. Please, Mr. Gechev, don't engage in talks with the MPs. Things are a little bit different. Mr. Gechev, please! [[Reply of National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] I'll give you the floor, Mr. Svilensky. Mr. Minister, I'll give you the floor. You wanted the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u131	I don't want to be blamed for some lie or anything, but the headquarters of the Sofia Municipal Council is in the building of Sofia Municipality, which is located on Street. "Moskovska" No 31. [[Strong noise and laughter from GERB. Applause by GERB and OP.]] Everything else is gutless. [[Wurthy applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u132	Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u133	Well, Mr. Goranov, you had to clarify, but... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u134	Mr. Svilensky, Mr. Svilensky...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u135	...the $60 million report wasn't made by Mrs. Fandakova...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u136	Mr. Svilensky, to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u137	...and it was said by another resident, another, how to say it, inhabiting Moscow, and not 33. [[Noise, shout and call from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u138	To me, Mr. Svilensky! Mr. Svilensky, if you don't address me...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u139	Mr. Chairman, "Moskovska" 33 is the Sofia Municipality and has nothing to do with the headquarters of this holding, which we are talking about.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u140	...in the manner of conduct. At least I have an attitude towards Moskovska. Please, to me!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u141	I'm asking you really not to allow the involvement of Sofia Municipality in this case, as I think she doesn't have...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u142	What was the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u143	She was involved. I'm sorry. Colleagues, we're going to vote. [[Reply from the National Representative Anton Kutev.]] Mr. Kutev, I have announced that we are going to vote. [[National Representative Anton Kutev wants the floor.]] All right, Mr. Kutev, come in. [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u144	Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is with you because you are leading the meeting in a way in which, unfortunately, it is not the first time, but it is unacceptable. We cannot, in my opinion, discuss one of the most serious scandals of the last half year when we are discussing huge budget gaps that lead to poverty, inequalities, bad image of Bulgaria in the world [[GERB noise and lines]] and everywhere, when we discuss the serious problems of our entire society, here to hit him with jokes: where is Moskovska, who is next-door neighbor of Moskovska, what does the Sofia Municipal Council have in common with some other headquarters that belongs to Moskovska? These jokes, Mr. Chairman, are ruining the prestige of the government and the National Assembly. You and the majority are directly responsible for this. And the more you allow it, the lower you fall along with the majority.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u145	Thank you. Mr. Gechev, have you seen where we are? Well...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u146	Where?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u147	Mr. Kutev criticizes me, and look where we're going. I'm voting on the first draft decision. [[National Representative Valentin Kasabov wants the floor in the manner of conduct.]] There's no way to lead, I've already announced. I'm sorry, Mr. Kasabov, I've already announced we're about to begin... [[Noise and lines from OP.]] Mr. Kasabov, you will always have a chance to criticize me. Let us continue with the vote. I'll present the draft decision to you and we'll vote on it. Project! DECISION in connection with the debate on questioning, No 054-05-26, of 3 June 2020, by the MPs Professor Rumen Gechev and Georgi Svilenski to the Minister of Finance Mr. Vladislav Goranov concerning a new concept for the taxation of gambling games, declared by the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov in March 2016. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED By 10 July 2020, the Minister of Finance shall submit to the National Assembly detailed information on the budget receipts from fees and taxes from the gambling sector, including the contribution of individual licensed forms for the last five years. This is the draft decision submitted by the MPs Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Please, voting mode. Vote 151 MPs: 43 against 92 abstentioned 16. The offer is not accepted. Now I present to you the draft decision submitted by the MPs Ms. Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs: Project! DECISION in connection with the debates on the asking by the MPs Professor Rumen Gechev and Georgi Svilenski to the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a new concept of taxation of gambling games, declared by the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov in March 2016. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED By 10 July 2020, the Minister of Finance shall submit to the National Assembly detailed information on the number of gambling organisers and on the budget receipts from fees and taxes from the gambling sector for the last five years. Please, voting mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u148	What about the reference Goranov suggested? [[Replications from the National Representative Rumen Gechev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u149	We are voting on this decision, Mr. Tsonev. It wasn't suggested, no. [[Replications from the MPs Yordan Tsonev and Rumen Gechev.]] Vote 150 MPs: 100, against 41, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Mr. Tsonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u150	I propose a re-voting, Mr. Chairman, so the amendment the minister has proposed will enter. Since he has no right, I recognize her. Write it in the decision proposed by GERB because the Minister wanted to offer this information to the National Assembly when he delivered the information. He said not to repeat it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u151	Mr. Tsonev, in re-voting mode, I could not bring an adjustment to the already proposed and voted decision. I can do a re-vote, and since you asked for it, I suggest it and apply it, but I can't make an amendment. [[Replications from the National Representative Rumen Gechev.]] Yeah, we'll reschedule. Please, voting mode. Vote 149 MPs: 100 against 40 abstentions 9. The motion is accepted. Mr. Goranov, you have the floor. Colleagues, please don't rush to leave the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u152	Just for a second. Mr. Chairman, I declare to the National Assembly that, in the implementation of today's decision, I will also provide the information which concerns the specific gambling operators whether they applied 20% on the commission or 15% on the bets received, which will to a large extent give the information that the Left's colleagues intended to receive. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u153	Thank you, Mr. Goranov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u154	Honourable Members, we are continuing with parliamentary control. Question from MP Dora Jankova to Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, on strengthening the landslide of the Smolyan State Road. Mrs. Yankova, if you'll excuse me. Please, fellow Members, take your seats in this Chamber and respect for the speaker.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u155	Dear Mr. Chairman, Minister Avramova! On the Plovdiv state road there has been a huge landslide for two years. You are familiar with what is located in the village of Smolyan, in the direction of the district of Ustovo. Many times from this tribune, 2018 I asked Minister Nankov, then a colleague from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, and today again. Perhaps this is the third question about the strengthening of the landslide, a great landslide, a public road. A road that also has international significance, because you know that Plovdiv "Smolyan," through Zlatograd. Termes to Greece or through Macaza from Smolyan through Macaza to Greece again, the status of the road has international significance. Many times here there were various promises for money, for maintenance, for designing, and in the last case two and a half years and more at the moment there is a traffic light, there are emergency support activities. Clear is the road that was made and is a bypass, which was not according to a project, with a slope 21%, then it was given to the municipality and was not well managed. And not just the local people, but actually I have an outrage about the government's attitude towards the road itself.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u156	Wait a minute, Mrs. Yankova. I ask the MPs from the BSP to take their seats and stop the talks.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u157	My question is: as Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, make some specific commitment now from this platform for money, deadlines and implementation. Otherwise, so far, two and a half years, emergency-supporting and kicking the ball, which I'm sorry to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u158	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Yankova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the register of landslides, as you have noted, is registered this landslide and collapse process, which is on the road II-86 Sokolovtsi In this section, urgent emergency recovery events were carried out in 2018 for its stabilisation. For a lasting solution to the problem in October 2019 the Road Infrastructure Agency entered into a contract with the Automighistrals.The project is subject: The strengthening of sites from the Republican road network affected by geo-driving processes and phenomena. The subject of the contract includes research and design works, technical design and implementation of construction works, with the value of the assigned activities being 7 million. 369 thousand. BGN 545. In the course of the implementation of the contract, Motorway drew up a draft amendment to the Cadastral Map and Cadastral Registers to remove the manifest factual error of the section of the road which has been submitted to the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral Office, Smolyan, to proceed at present. In the option solution submitted to the "Travel Infrastructure" Agency, for research and design works, which was adopted by the Expert Tech-Economic Council of the "Travel Infrastructure" Agency, there are likely to be estrangement procedures in the landslide area. The second intermediate phase of the project documentation will also be developed, which, following the change in the cadastral map, i.e. the technical project, will be submitted to the Road Infrastructure Agency for adoption and procedure for issuing a building permit. This landslide is one of the 74 priority issues for which the Road Infrastructure Agency was allocated funds by decision of the Council of Ministers. This is one of the priority 16 landslides for which the Agency has taken urgent action to implement it and to process projects, alienation procedures and change in cadastral maps, and to get to real construction. I can't give an exact answer about what time it takes to start real construction activities. I hope, in an urgent context, the Road Infrastructure Agency will carry out estrangement activities and launch the MOU, and I hope this will happen within this construction season, during the summer of this year. In February, the Road Infrastructure Agency launched a public contract to select an executive consulting service which was terminated on 24 February. A new contract has been announced for these priority 16 positions in which this landslide is also present, with offers being accepted by June 25th, so that after the selection of a consultant we will be able to proceed to the approval of a project and a building permit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u160	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mrs. Yankova, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u161	Dear Mr. Chairman! Madam Minister, I understand from your answer that there are funds provided, but it is not clear when the landslide will be strengthened. Do you know what's really going on and you're in charge of this Ministry? During all the elections that have passed so far, funds have been allocated, cult rituals have been held, many people have been photographed, and at the moment I think that you are the only one who has not taken pictures of yourself in the landslides of previous ministers, district managers, mayors. A thank-you note was written and eventually one state road is closed, there is a small route on which the cars are carried along the cargo and all the others. I know Rhodopeans are patient people, but trust in institutions is being wasted. At the moment, you say:..extreme procedures. But there is the Bulgarian state, the Cadastre is in your hands and you are in charge. There is the Forest Fund, which is also state, and if you wish this to happen quickly, as it is on a public road, declare it an object of national importance and it can happen very quickly. We will now wait for the selection of a consultant. The first stage of the project is approved, we will wait for the second stage, and that means next year and the summer is gone. This means that it will enter the fourth year and perhaps the next minister, whoever he is, will say: "But they, the previous ones, still failed. " Really from this tribune what I understand is the news of Rhodopeans: wait, there's money in the budget, you're priority, and sometime, the fixing of this landslide can happen. It is important that I address you as Bulgarian Minister: I do not want to collect a petition and the jeep to come! And I don't want you to stand in the jeep and be able to solve the problem.. Let the state and statehood operate under the rules of the Bulgarian laws.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u162	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Madam Minister, you have the right to the back of your head.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u163	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Yankova, from this platform I declare that the landslide, which you asked in your parliamentary question, is one of the priority for the Road Infrastructure Agency and for the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. There's a project drawn up, there's procedures in the Cadastral, there's going to be a change of manifest error. I repeat this about the residents and guests of Smolyan and the area, so in this construction season for this summer our priority is to start real construction activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u164	There is a request for discussion and presentation of a matter off the agenda by the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria. 52, para. 6. Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u165	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Bulgaria confidently and proudly raised its head goes on its European path, implementing directives, regulations, producing national laws in the spirit of European values. If all of this were true, how can we explain that for years now sustainable development has been replaced by the use of environmental issues for political and group purposes? Who has an interest instead of economic development, conservation of natural resources and prosperity of the population to have chaos, ambiguity, problems and tensions?! That's two groups. The first is the executive power and the governors of GERB, who buy political calmness against compromises regarding environmental legality. The second group are those patriotic investors in quotes who want to fish in cloudy water, who rely on gaps in legislation and are in a peaceful contact with the government. This is the only way cases can be made, such as Sinemorets, Vlas, Irakli, Kaliakra, Alephu..................the vivid examples in Europe and in Bulgaria, such as citizens and power, the official and the hidden state differ to an extent that they can no longer exist together. Therefore the case in Aleppu is an emblem, it is an emancipation, it is the tip of the opposition between the legality and the harsh violation of the Law, between justice and lack of justice. We listened to three ministers in the National Assembly. The Minister of the Environment told us nothing about the subject, the Minister of Regional Development told us about the powers of the environment, but not about his own, and the Minister of Tourism presented such an innocent knowledge of his own law that we wonder if he knows that there is a Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast. What the three have in common is the following: no one does anything in this case; they are in the conditions of bound competence, and in fact they are in complete and guilty inaction. They say: "We wait for the prosecution, we wait for the court. " - We ask: what do we need the Council of Ministers and ministers for?! If these ministers do nothing and do not exercise the law, the chief prosecutor may become prime minister, and some judicial college of prosecutors or judges may replace the Council of Ministers. What shall we call this model, then, with you, a European model of Bulgarian democracy, and shall we call it that? Colleagues, we went to Aleppu and we wanted to give you our opinion and facts precisely, clearly, specifically and objectively, and we will continue to do so and we will present details next week. We want you to know, fellow Members, this five-star wall is also thermal insulation, and that probably makes it the only one in the world with these attributes. Second, you should know that on 24 January 2017 the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] amending Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market, and amending Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the placing of plant protection products on the market, and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market, and amending Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). s 48 We want you to know that this site has no environmental impact assessment, that one day before the New Year's Holidays on 29 December 2017 RIEW Burgas has issued eligibility regarding the compatibility assessment that there may be a holiday settlement there. We want you to know that there are elevators, shafts, playgrounds, stairwells and everything else that makes this object to be what it is, a scandalous, screaming monument to corruption, lawlessness and the oblivion of one power. This is only part of the mechanism of the hidden and secret state that conquers almost all public activities. This means, if it is true, and it is that the hidden and secret state, using only as a facade and mask laws, rules and order, has defeated justice, democracy, citizens and our 30-year hopes for a better future. Therefore, honourable Members, we strongly insist and call for this absurdity to be suspended in due time by: the Minister of Environment and Water has annulled the decision on the compatibility assessment of 29 December 2017 of the RIEW Burgas because it is contrary to the previous order of the Minister; the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works to impose a construction ban on this site until full clarification of the case, referring to its powers in the Law on the Construction of the Area; the Minister of Tourism to apply its powers under the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast and its special competence in relation to Zone A. Fourth, we ask you to withdraw the Draft Law on Changes to the Biodiversity Act, to go through a broad public, scientific and expert discussion and not to continue using Bulgaria's ecology for political purposes. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u166	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. We continue with a question from MPs Krum Zarkov and Georgi Stoilov to Minister Petya Avramova about the need to build a circular intersection at the exit of the town of Ruse towards Varna. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, a year ago we referred to you about the dangers to passers-by, which hides a specific road section at the exit of the city of Ruse in the direction of Varna, known as the section at the store "Jumbo" which is actually a crossroads in regulation, on which the Republican road I-2 Ruse is crossed Razgrad, the Republican road II-23 Ruse Kubrat, and the municipal road to the district "Middle Tower." From the answer to our question, as well as from a series of meetings between the responsible institutions, which followed our debate in the Chamber and it did not become clear that the lasting solution to the problem was the construction of a circular intersection. Such a circular intersection is not yet available, and there are no prospects of working on it. So my question to you is: what are the prospects for this project, when do you plan to launch its implementation?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u168	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Zarkov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The project for the construction of a circular intersection in the area of the existing 4-fold intersection between the Republican road I-2 Ruse Razgrad at km 12, the beginning of road II-23 Ruse I have to report some delays in preparing the project, but it is primarily related to the fact that the preparation and coordination of the design documentation, as well as implementation, must go through a number of regulatoryly regulated stages, which also take time. An essential part of the investment process is also providing the necessary financial resources.. an important part of the whole process. All these circumstances have been taken into account by the Road Infrastructure Agency when planning Republican road activities this year. However, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the short-term measures implemented last year have given a positive result in reducing the number of those affected by the joint measures that have been taken and implemented by both the Municipality and the Road Infrastructure Agency. I would like to assure you of the commitment of both the Road Administration and the Ministry that the preparatory events related to the project for the construction of a circular intersection, which will actually be a joint project with Ruse Municipality, will be carried out as soon as possible with a view to achieving a clear and concrete implementation plan. According to the information of Regional Road Management Ruse, as part of the prescribed long-term measures in November 2019 a request was made by the mayor of the Municipality for coordination of the project for the development of lighting on the Republican road I-2 Ruse Razgrad near the intersection for the town of Kubrat and the district of Sredna kula. Following the approval of the documents by the experts in the Regional Road Management, the same are currently being considered by the specialists in the API for the purpose of granting authorisation for special use of the roads. On the part of road safety experts, the Agency has carried out a thorough review of the section and in February this year a positive opinion has been adopted in principle for the construction of the circle in question. Currently, the Road Infrastructure Agency has prepared a draft agreement protocol between the Agency and the Municipality of Ruse on the basis of art. 30, para. 3 of the Road Traffic Act. I would like to point out that the construction of a circular intersection contains a lot of elements that need to be examined and thoroughly studied, as part of them are: development and requirements of the movement with research of existing and future transport flows, their forecast infusion and casting from the route, type links. The experts' opinion is that a circular intersection is not designed when there is a difference of more than 30% in the intensity of movement along the intersections. However, the obligations and financial contribution of each Party to the preparation and approval of the technical project for the reconstruction of the intersection, the implementation of construction procedures and the realization of construction under the terms and conditions laid down by the Rules for the Implementation of the Roads Act will be determined by this Agreement. Once the minutes are signed by both parties, they will proceed to realization and each of the parties must fulfil the commitments made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u170	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Zarkov, would you like to use a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I begin with the satisfactory part of your response. I am pleased and congratulate you on the fact that the project is still up to date and a lot of work has been done, and I cannot underestimate the short-term measures taken a year ago as a result of our debates. I'm sure they saved lives, but everyone knows the lasting solution is the intersection. Therefore, we will continue to monitor the process, as long as it will also be a joint project with the Municipality of Ruse. You know very well that the current mayor of the Municipality was one of the MPs who often put this topic to discussion here. So I'm sure that's where you'll meet the proper understanding and support. However, a flat, and very important one. I leave the regulatory obstacles to your work to be overcome. The financial resource is also a matter of political priorities. Unfortunately, it turns out that road infrastructure in Ruse and in the area is always falling out of priorities and resources are difficult to find for them. At the moment, the situation is as follows: when you are travelling from Pleven or Tarnovo to Ruse, you must go through the deadly section of Byala Ruse, and when you leave Ruse, you must go through this dangerous intersection on your way to Varna. This Russian roulette, which is constantly subjected to the inhabitants of this area and the passing citizens, including transit, is absolutely intolerable. Therefore, please keep this in mind when seeking financial resources and prioritizing the relevant costs. Thank you for understanding. We remain referred to the subject until the final implementation of the Project.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u172	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Madam Minister, are you going to use your right to dodge or not? Thank you. We move on to questions to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Mrs. Desislava Taneva. The first question is from the MP Smilyana Niva-Krusteva on the abuse of declared areas for the production of vegetables in Haskovo region. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u173	Dear Mr. Simeonov! Dear Minister, according to the latest checks of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and the State Fund, it has become clear to farmers that there have been abuses in declaring the areas for support and receiving subsidies. The biggest differences were established in the districts of Haskovo, Plovdiv, Pleven and Blagoevgrad. Again, according to the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests in Haskovo region, there are most discrepancies in declaring cucumber production areas where no vegetable was found at 2744 decares. Next up is the onion where the fake decares are 1520. A disturbance was also found in melons with 1037 decares, and also tomatoes with 1542 decares turned out to be a grass field. My question is: are the lists of farmers who abused the declaration of areas in Haskovo region clear? By which programmes are they financed and in what amount are they total? What sanctions will you impose on the intruders?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u174	Thank you. Madam Minister, please shed light on these terrible facts.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u175	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Niva, everything is clear. Your question concerns 2019 when, for the first time since the application of tied support schemes, checks have been carried out on 50 and more than 50% of the requested areas by measures where there is a higher potential risk and a higher percentage of ineligible areas has been established. What's the stats? Everything's been established. In Haskovo region for 2019 1702 beneficiaries have declared areas for support under seven tied support schemes for fruit and vegetables. After carrying out all administrative on-the-spot checks relevant to the schemes and regulated in art. 37 of the Agricultural Support Act, 390 of them is not authorised subsidy under the relevant scheme. For your information, 253 beneficiaries from 2019 have applied again under the same schemes in 2020. As we have already announced, in respect of vegetables in this year 2020, a 100% check will be made, so that they will be checked again on the spot and for the fruits we will remain on the increased control that is from last year around half of the requested areas. The information I can give you further: in Haskovo District Directorate under these tied support schemes, both vegetables and fruits for 2019 have been claimed a total of 6314 hectares; established after on-the-spot checks as eligible, there are 5408 hectares or 906 hectares, we have a reduction as an unacceptable area, representing 14% of the total area applied for. No subsidy has been authorised to these beneficiaries, no payments have been received. Moreover, according to the amount of the area found inadmissible compared to the total area applied for, each of them has different types of sanctions, and the worst is that in the coming up to three years this subsidy will be deducted from the subsidies to which they would be entitled. But I say again, after the proper checks that I've already told you about in what order they're going to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u176	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mrs. Nieva, a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u177	Dear Minister, I understand from your reply that you have accordingly taken measures for the persons who have abused the declaration of these areas and have not received a subsidy which will be consistently paid by them over time, but have you taken any other administrative measures towards these persons and these companies besides this measure?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u178	Thank you, Ms. Niva. Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u179	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Ms Niva, all the measures that have been taken and which we are entitled to take are in accordance with the scope of the legislation applicable to the application of tied support and support. In addition to what we are doing, this season under these tied support schemes for vegetables each applicant has been checked at 100%.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u180	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Have a nice day. We move on to a group of questions to the Minister of Youth and Sports Mr. Krasen Kralev. The first question is from the National Representative Irena Anastasova regarding a verification of the activity of Mr. Boris Borisov.. Director of the State Sports School.. General Vladimir Stoychev....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Mrs. Anastasova, I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues! Mr. Minister, to my question to you, deposited in the Chamber of the National Assembly on 25 February this year, you answered in plenary on 13 March. My question was related to the election of Mr. Borisov as Director of Sports School According to your reply, the selection procedure has been followed, which I doubt so far. In connection with serious signals of violations of the activities of the quoted director, some of which I mentioned in my reply then, you were............................................................................................................................................................... Meanwhile, I was also alerted by tenants of premises in the Sports School building, who I know have also signaled you about unprofessional attitude and any harassment against them by Mr. Borisov. This suggests that Mr. Borisov continues his work with strange and unacceptable methods of work. I understand the emergency situation created in the country in recent months because of the pandemic, but this should not prevent you from checking the activities of Mr. Borisov, as you promised. In this regard, I ask you to answer my question: have you appointed a committee to check the activities of Mr. Borisov as Director of Sports School.. General Vladimir Stoychev. and what are the results of the inspection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u182	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u183	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Anastasova, as you mentioned in your exhibition, in my previous reply to you I detailed the documents and the results of the conducted test-interviews in the competition for Director of the State Sports School. A copy of the documents has been sent to you in response to your request to me. On 18 February 2020, the Head of the RIO, Sofia-City, Vanya Kastreva, forwarded to the Ministry of Youth and Sports a complaint by Ivanka Chuncheva The complaint contains statements and qualifications and a request to the RIO of Sofia-City to verify the regularity of the documents of Boris Borisov in accordance with the Ministry of Education Regulation No 15 of 22 July 2019 on the status and professional development of teachers, directors and other pedagogical specialists. Of the issues raised in the complaint by the competence of the Ministry of Youth and Sport, it is only to monitor compliance with the Ordinance. In a study of Mr. Borisov's documents on education, professional experience and pedagogical competence, it was found that when assigning the norm of teaching work to the director of Sports School, General Vladimir Stoychev, the requirements laid down in this article are met. 9.1 of Annex No 1, art. 10 of Regulation No 15. With regard to the signal for tenants of premises in the Sports School building you specify, the facts are as follows: On 24 April 2020, a letter was received from the Ministry of Youth and Sports. No. 26 - 12 of the company Marvet Arts., whose activity is branding of cars, facade advertising, wide-format printing, latex printing and is a tenant of premises in Sports School.. General Vladimir Stoychev. In connection with the letter of my order No 09-584/8 June 2020, a working group of the Directorate-General for Regional Coordination and Control was formed, which carried out the verification. The inspection ended in the middle of the month. The findings of the report are briefly as follows: In accordance with an order of the Minister of Health, the Sofia Inspectorate and the Regional Management of Education Sofia-City on anti-epidemic measures in the territory of Sofia Municipality, the Director of Sports School, General Vladimir Stoychev, has legally issued an order to close the school yard and prevent citizens from entering it. Part of the activity of the said company is related to loading and unloading activities and entering the yard of the school of cars and any outsiders, which leads to potential dangers for the children and employees of the school. The check also found a violation by the rental company and Mr. Vasil Butev. Director of Sports School General Vladimir Stoychev, at the time when the contract for temporary use of premises was concluded. Some of them are: additional premises are provided to the company, part of the first floor of the dorm No 1, without the same as offices. In these rooms the company uses electricity and water paid by the school. In the rented site are installed radiators that do not appear in the admission-transitional protocol to the rental contract. They are connected to the heating system, but the company does not pay for the heat consumed. From the inspection carried out by an official of the company, the electrical installation of the rented property is found to surround the control electricity meter of the printing plant and the electricity consumed is reported by the electricity meter of the school and is paid by the school budget. In relation to these findings of the check concerning violations, the Ministry of Youth and Sport has sent a signal to the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office. The Director of Sports School General Vladimir Stoychev was given a written order to take legal action to prevent continuing use and non-payment of supplies and by order to regulate the terms and conditions for the omission and stay of employees, students, citizens, vehicles in the building and the area of the school. With regard to the question raised by you in my previous answer about the working hours of Boris Borisov and the case of the assaulted student from the Sports School, the Department of Sports for all and sport for students and asked for a report from the Director of Sports School General Vladimir Stoychev and checked the information. The Ministry of Youth and Sport has not received any signals of non-compliance with working hours by the school director. Mr. Borisov has informed us that to date he is in the process of termination of his relations with the National Assembly. The rights and obligations of the municipal councillor are detailed in the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration and there are no obstacles Boris Borisov to reconcile the two positions. The incident with a student from the eighth grade of Sports School "General Vladimir Stoychev" occurred at 19.10 pm on 21 February 2020. The student returned from measuring the weight of the State Sambo Championship organized in the hall of Lokomotiv Stadium. According to the established daily regime for the second period of study in the academic year 2019 - 2020, day Friday, when the incident with the boy took place, the last class ended at 5.30 p.m. According to art. 24, para. 5, t. 3 of Ordinance No 1 of 29 August 2016 on the terms and conditions of admission and specialized training of students in sports schools, ensuring the participation of students from the Sports School in a competition from the State and the international sports calendar of the Bulgarian sports federations in the respective sport is the duty of the sports club. The incident occurred in extracurricular time. The student was trained by type of sport judo at the school and was measured for participation in the State Sambo Championship. The responsibility for participation is borne by the sports club. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u184	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Anastasova, you're entitled to a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u185	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! I'm not satisfied with the answer. For me, an examination of Mr. Borisov's activities as principal of the school has not been done. You've been doing complaints checks. You have done checks on facts that I have put in my backpack when putting the previous question. This does not mean checking the Director's activities. And in my first question I showed you the working hours of Mr. Borisov from 8.30 to 5 pm, at least that's how it was indicated on the sign of his office. You can also check with the school's internal employment regulations. You didn't have to request a report from him. In the same rules, such is the order in the education system, the Director's working time must be specified. I have requested an official reply from the Secretary General of the National Assembly for Mr. Borisov's working hours as an expert in the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, and I have received it and read it to you: And now I ask you, when exactly, Mr. Borisov, does he perform his duties as director? Apparently, from 8.30 to 12:00 p.m. at such a large school with overly diverse activities, you'd be surprised, or you'd rather laugh at any director. This is unacceptable to me. I continue to say that Mr. Borisov does not have the necessary internship to take office despite your response. I am convinced that the commission appointed by your order either acted incompetently or deliberately violated the requirement of the Law on the Needed Internship.. pedagogically or in the field of sport. Because pedagogical internships and internships in the field of sport are not taken cumulatively, but separately, as well as the internship in the Commission on Children, Youth and Sports cannot be considered an internship in the field of sport. As shown by the actions of Mr. Borisov during this school year he does not only have the necessary internship, but does not have enough competence. Really do a check, and if you don't have enough capacity for this, please contact the Ministry of Education and Science for help. Mr. Minister, with your stubbornness you will ruin a good school. You can't empower incompetent people to manage the school. The management of any school does not work with a demonstration of political affiliation, by chasing the uncomfortable, by making up enemies, by reviewing the video cameras, by attending school at four o'clock. A good director is a knowledgeable man who knows the regulations, a man who doesn't play boss, doesn't chase people, he helps them, and when he doesn't know himself, he learns not greatness. And that's what any good director will tell you. All qualities that Mr. Borisov has not demonstrated so far.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u186	You're exceeding your time, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u187	So do your job because you are directly responsible for this assignment, and I will continue to follow this process, because you should not ruin the oldest sports school in Bulgaria. We've seen a lot of similar examples in recent years. Thank you. I've decided that I can delay too, after the minister has two minutes overdue the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u188	Mr. Minister, are you going to make a duplicate, or are you going to leave the line without comment? And also try to respect the limit set in the Rules of the National Assembly for two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u189	Dear Mrs. Anastasova! I have several times in my previous reply, and in the present I have told you that the Director's activities are controlled very carefully and precisely. There are two departments that are responsible for this "Sports" Directorate for all and sport for students and the "Regional Coordination and Control" Directorate. We've carefully checked all the signals and statements. As I told you, Mr. Borisov has informed us that to date he is in the process of termination of his relations with the National Assembly. I would not be committed to commenting on the personal qualities and professional qualifications of Mr. Borisov, but our experts are categorical yes, we have the necessary expertise that his biography and his professional internship meet the requirements for him to be the director. As you can see, he's doing very well with his work, even in my reply just now, I was quoting that he found violations of the previous director. Violations that are sufficient for the previous director to alert the prosecution. I believe that so far he has dealt with his duties, if there are any violations that he would commit, we will control it absolutely strictly according to the rights that we have and the rights of the directorates that control his work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u190	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The second question to Mr. Kralev, Minister of Youth and Sport, will be asked by the MPs Vasil Antonov, Kolyo Milev and Hristo Prodanov on the fight against doping in the conduct of public policy in the field of youth and sport. To present the question, I give the floor to Mr. Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u191	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, our question to you is about the fight against doping in the conduct of public policy in the field of youth and sport. Dear Minister, in 2015 the Bulgarian national weightlifting team gave 11 positive doping samples. In this context, you have publicly announced that you will stop funding this Federation. Bulgaria was punished not to have weightlifters at the 31st Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro in 2016. Individual penalties were imposed on the contestants for different deadlines, and our Federation of Weightlifting was punished to pay a fine of 250 thousand. The dollar. You, Mr. Minister, not only did you not stop funding the rods, but you also provided a large portion of the fine for the 250 grand. lv. and it was paid by the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer, whose principal you are. There are three positive doping samples in the period 2017 - 2019 - there is no suspension of funding or withdrawal of the sports license. The Federation gets annually one year... 750 thousand, the other Similar is the situation in other sports, such as handballs with three positive doping samples in 2018, received in 2019 financing 220 thousand. BGN, judo also two positive doping samples in 2016, with 700 thousand in 2017. BGN, next year again two, in 2017 - 2018 again receive 600 thousand. lv. and this continues so far, in 2018. Two each year, two each, and 2019 again get 800 thousand. lv. It is also true in the fight, which also has a very large funding of over 2 million. Five hundred thousand. Annually, there are two positive doping samples in 2019 and receives next year 3 million. BGN, next year is one sample and still gets over 2 and a half million. Such doping samples in 2019 have other sports, such as sports shooting, kickboxing and muai tai, fitness and bodybuilding, arm wrestling and so on, which also receive funding, in large sizes. There are federalities that do not have positive doping samples and therefore do not receive enough funding. In the same time, Article 3 (1) (b) of the Code shall apply. 24, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on Physical Education and Sports obliges the Minister of Youth and Sports or an official authorised by him to withdraw the sports licence when the Sports Federation has allowed systematic violations of anti-opping rules to be committed. Dear Minister, our question is: in your capacity as minister in the government responsible for the conduct of the public policy in the field of youth and sport, how do you specifically comply with the provisions of the Law on the Fight against Doping in the Republic of Bulgaria and the regulation issued by you accordingly.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u192	Thank you, Mr. Milev. Mr. Secretary, you have three minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u193	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Milev, Mr. Prodanov, Mr. Antonov! At the outset, I would like to point out that anti-dumping rules are the rules laid down in the International Convention on the Fight against the Use of Doping in Sports, drawn up in Paris on 19 October 2005, in the World Anti-Pating Code and its international standards, the Convention against the Use of Doping of the Council of Europe and the Additional Protocol to the Convention against the Use of Doping of the Council of Europe. In Bulgaria, these conventions have been ratified together with the Law on Physical Education and Sports, which entered into force since 18 January 2019 and the Ordinance on Anti-opping Activity, in force from 14 June 2019, constitute the legal basis for combating the use of doping. Article 24, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on Physical Education and Sports, which you quote in your exhibition, refers to the fact that the Minister of Youth and Sports takes away the sports license of a sports federation to carry out systematic violations of anti-opping rules. In § 1, t. 11 of the Additional provisions of the Law on Physical Education and Sports are regulated that the conduct of three or more infringements over a two-year period is committed. Since the beginning of 2019, no sports organisation has had three or more infringements of anti-dumping rules and, in this sense, is subject to withdrawal of a licence for systemic infringements. The data on your sports are as follows: for 2019 there are two positive doping samples in combat, one in weightlifting, one in kickboxing, one in arm wrestling, two in gym and bodybuilding, one in sports shooting, one in handball, zero in judo. I would like to remind you that the provisions of the Law on Physical Education and Sports, which we are talking about, have entered into force since 18 January 2019. In your exhibition you are quoting examples from previous years when the old Law on Physical Education and Sport was in force. Regarding the cited case for the 11 positive doping samples in 2015 in the Bulgarian Weightlifting Federation, it should be borne in mind that it has been shown that the adverse analytical result in their samples is due to a contaminated food supplement. Until the final decision was made on the case, Federation funding was suspended. Yes, we helped the Federation, fought with them, and were able to prove that the Federation and the racers themselves are not responsible for the presence of a banned substance in the samples. I am proud that we were able to restore the Bulgarian Federation for Weightlifting. For last 2019 this is the most successful federation in Bulgaria with 36 medals won by world and European championships in all age groups. 24 of these medals are in age groups up to 23 years old, which speaks of a very strong young generation in this sport. State policy on the fight against drug use in sport is a priority of the government and my personal priority. I claim that in recent years, a lot has been done in this direction. A recognition of this at international level is my double election as a member of the governing bodies of the World Anti-opping Agency. One of our biggest contributions in this direction is the new Law on Physical Education and Sports, in force from 18 January 2019. The new law for the first time provides for an independent chapter on Antidoping activity, which sets out the main frameworks for regulation of this activity. In order to strengthen the measures to combat the use of doping in the administrative penal provisions of the Law on Physical Education and Sports, property sanctions of sports organizations are provided for in art. 149, para. 1 of the Law, amounting to 1000 to 4000 BGN. .. depending on the order of the infringement. Since the beginning of 2019 there have been 12 decisions of the Disciplinary Commission to the Bulgarian Olympic Committee on cases of violation of anti-dumping rules. To conclude, I would like to point out that the leading role in doping control, prevention and fight against doping is in the Antidopping Center. The Centre shall carry out its activities on its own, in cooperation with the other national and international institutions [[the President signals that time has run out]] and organisations concerned with prevention and combating the use of doping. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u194	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Milev, line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u195	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, first of all, I would like to dispel the doubts that I have a certain attitude towards some sports, because during my entire adult life I have not only actively participated in the sport, but also in the positions I have held, I have supported all sports, and as a Bulgarian I am proud of both the weights and the struggle and the boxing with all the sports that have a somewhat Bulgarian performance in front of the whole world. Thank you for your answer. However, you are Bulgarian Minister of Youth and Sports, as of November 2017 you are a member and you represent the European Union in the World Anti-opping Agency, and since November last year your mandate has been extended for another three years. I believe that it is not normal, even if we have such great achievements in the world, to allow positive doping samples in the future and to stain Bulgaria's name. Therefore, from the position you have and your membership in this World Anti-opping Agency, what measures will you take, Minister, to no longer receive such positive doping samples in any sport, as we are Bulgarians and should keep the name not only of the sport but also of Bulgaria? Is there any doubt as to how you will dispel the doubts, for example, in the financing of various types of sport, as you see that those who have the most doping samples receive the greatest funding, these samples have been all the years so far? Although one or two, these are doping samples and show unsystemic work over the years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u196	Thank you, Mr. Milev. Mr. Minister, would you like to use the backrest? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u197	Dear Mr. Milev, I'll be very brief in my ass. I just want to say that in recent years the number of Bulgarian athletes on the streets in use of doping has been sharply reduced. For 2019 they are 12 people, of which only 5 are national contestants. The other contestants are amateurs, on which the only way to prevent is with a large educational campaign on both coaches and doctors and parents, because some of them are children. These commitments are implemented under programs of the Antidoping Centre, which implements general policy to combat doping in our country. In 2016 we have 8 athletes, in 2017 "14," in 2018 "13." A very small part of them are national competitors, which shows that Bulgaria is one of the countries that copes in the best way in fighting doping. We are far from leading countries in the world in street racers in the use of banned substances. Regarding the financing of the federations, the funding system is absolutely transparent and clear, which eliminates even the smallest subjective element in determining the funding. Each Federation shall fall into a funding group according to its results from the preceding and last Olympic cycles. I believe that these federalities that work best get the biggest share of the funding. Respectfully, in order for there to be federalities that don't receive funds, they don't meet the standards that we have to help the Federations. It is clear that our country has always been this way for many years. It tolerates more Olympic sports than Neo-Olympics. We have tried to correct this ratio, to assist, to pay enough attention to neolympic sports, because they, especially combat sports, are extremely popular among young Bulgarians and should be encouraged because our belief is that more important than the medals of the Olympics is the health of the nation. So we make our best efforts to be objective in determining the amount of funding for the Bulgarian federations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-26.u198	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Thank you, fellow Members, all of you who have remained in this Chamber to attend parliamentary control. The next plenary session shall be on 1 July 2020 at 9.00 in accordance with the weekly National Assembly Programme. Thank you. Take care! Due to the exhaustion of the agenda, I am adjourning today's meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]]
