ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! [[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. I'll read you two messages: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order, Security and Defence Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces by its order has authorised the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of the aircraft Il-76 and its crew of the air force of Ukraine. The authorisation is valid for the period from 22 to 26 June 2020 for a total of two flights to transport medical property from China to Ukraine. The notification was received on 18 June 2020. No 003-08-43 and granted to the Defence Committee. The National Statistical Institute has received information about consumer surveillance in April 2020, inflation and consumer price indices in May 2020. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: THE LAW OF CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE PROTECTION OF ANIMALS. With the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Welcome, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u3	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u4	On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please be admitted to the Chamber Nikolay Rossnev.. Deputy Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, and Lubima Donkova Head of Department of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 152 MPs: 146, against 2, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Please, Mrs. Stoyanova, introduce us to the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u5	♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Plant Protection Act No 002-01-20 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 June 2020. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 17 June 2020, discussing the quoted bill. In the work of the Commission took part: from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests Prof. Dr. Yanko Ivanov Deputy Minister... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u6	Colleagues, it's very noisy in the room. Please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u7	...by the Bulgarian Agency for Food Safety Nikolay Rossnev Deputy Executive Director, and experts. The draft of his motives was presented by Deputy Minister Ivanov, who explained that the Bill ensures the synchronization of national legislation with European requirements relating to the application of protective measures against harmful organisms on plants, with official controls and other official activities, as well as the need to introduce harmonised risk indicators. In this respect, the Law covers measures implementing Regulation (EU) 2016/2031 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2016 on protective measures against plant pests, special rules on official controls on plants, plant products and other objects and on actions undertaken by competent authorities in relation to plant health, as well as specific rules on official controls and on actions undertaken by competent authorities in relation to plant protection products. The functions of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, related to the official control and keeping of public registers, which the Agency maintains on its website, have been revised. A public national electronic register of seeds treated with plant protection products which may be traded and used in the territory of the country shall be established while the register of plant protection products with an authorisation for placing on the market and use in the form of a ready-made solution is removed. The controls on plant protection products, active substances, adjuvants, fertilisers, soil improvers, biologically active substances and food substrates are intended to continue to be carried out by plant protection inspectors, while the controls on plants, plant products and other objects will be carried out by official phytosanitary inspectors. Accordingly, their competences are regulated. Texts relating to the actions of the control body in establishing non-compliance with the regulatory requirements shall be reviewed. In a number of cases, it is provided that the appeal against an act will not suspend the implementation of measures taken by the competent authority to eliminate or mitigate risks to human health, animals, plants and the environment. In relation to plant health control, criteria for the categorisation of pests have been introduced and, in addition to quarantine, official controls will be subject to regulated non-anguage pests. In addition, measures are introduced to identify and manage phytosanitary risks; restrictions on the introduction of high-risk plants and plant products; rules on the movement of wood packaging material; requirements on means of transport, technique, postal and courier consignments containing plants and plant products. The provisions relating to the issue of plant passports and the requirements for professional operators applying for authorisation to issue plant passports are revised. Measures are identified in the event of the risk of newly identified pest risks or other plant health risks that will apply until the characteristics of those pests are identified and until a full risk assessment is made. The measures will be applied at designated quarantine stations and detention facilities and the surveillance and release of plants will take place under certain conditions. It is an obligation of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency to prepare plans for action against priority pests. The texts relating to the conditions and arrangements for official phytosanitary control in the territory of the country are revised for import and transit, export and re-export, including at border control posts and control posts other than those. It shall be possible to delegate certain activities when issuing official certificates and other official certificates relating to plant protection products to other persons. The authorisation of placing on the market and use of plant protection products in the form of a reconstituted solution is withdrawn. A reduced certificate of the right to use plant protection products of a professional category of use will be renewed after the expiry of the period for which it is disabled and after the transfer of training. Farmers producing plants and plant products should keep records of plant protection events carried out to ensure traceability when carrying out official controls on the use of plant protection products. It is envisaged that the National Action Plan for the Sustainable Use of Pesticides introduce harmonised risk indicators based on the data on the quantities of active substances placed on the market in plant protection products. Specific measures to protect surface and groundwater and drinking water from the effects of pesticides included in the plan should encourage the use of low-risk pesticides and at the lowest possible permitted doses. New ones have been introduced and existing administrative criminal provisions have been optimized for detected infringements. The legal definitions of the terms used are revised. In the subsequent discussion of the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria, they said they would support the bill, given the need to synchronise the provisions of the Law with the European requirements, but raised a number of questions. In response, it was explained that the register of plant protection products requested for authorisation was withdrawn but the register of products already authorised for use in the territory of the country remained operational. It has also become clear that there can be no mutual recognition of plant protection products, and each Member State of the European Union should carry out its own recognition procedure. With regard to the highly increased penalties, it was explained that the purpose of these sanctions is to have a deterrent effect, especially with regard to the import and use of unauthorised plant protection products. To a question from the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, United patriots explained that all plants and plant products will be accompanied by a plant passport, as an exception will be made only for plants intended for end-user. In response to a question raised by the parliamentary group of the Parliamentary Committee on Rights and Freedoms, it was clarified that, apart from the requirement that all plants and plant products intended for planting be accompanied by a plant passport, the other important change is that the registered non-marine pests on seeds and planting material also become part of the plant health regime. Following the debates held, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 16 votes in favour, without abstention and 3 votes, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Plant Protection Act, No 002-01-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 June 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u8	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Colleagues, this is the silence in plenary that provides normal working conditions. Here you are, Mrs. Zidarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u9	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Plant Protection Act No 002-01-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 June 2020. At its meeting held on 18 June 2020, the Environment and Water Commission examined at first reading a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Plant Protection Act No 002 01-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 June 2020. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Janko Ivanov Deputy Minister, Nikolay Rosnev s Deputy Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, Ljubina Donkova, Head of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, Maria Tomalieva, Chief Expert at the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, Boyka Samardjieva, Legal Consult at the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency; from the Ministry of Environment and Water is present Nikolay Tsvetkov, State Expert at the Directorate of Nature Protection. On behalf of the importers, the bill and the reasons for it were presented by the Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The proposed draft is intended to implement Regulation (EU) 2016/2031 of 14 December 2019 on protective measures against plant pests establishing a new plant health regime in the European Union aimed at prevention and Regulation (EU) 2017/625, which organises official controls throughout the agri-food chain. In addition, Commission Directive (EU) 2019/782 of 15 May 2019 amending Directive 2009/128/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the establishment of harmonised risk indicators listed in Annex IV to Directive 2019/782 is transposed. They are necessary in order to measure progress in achieving the objectives of the European Union relating to the sustainable use of pesticides and to promote the development and introduction of integrated pest management and alternative approaches or methods. In addition to the full implementation at national level of the safeguard measures under the European Regulations, the general objectives of the Draft are related to the introduction of instruments and rules for the implementation of phytosanitary control and other official activities, the movement of regulated non-mammortal pests, the communication with operators and the public, the administrative criminal provisions and sanctions, the certification of the right to use plant protection products, as well as farmers producing plants and plant products. The Ministry of Environment and Water has expressed its opinion that it supports the Bill. After the discussion and the vote held, the Committee on Environment and Water with 13 votes for................................................................................................... Asks the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Plant Protection Act, No 002-01-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 June 2020
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u10	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zidarova. [[Noise and lines in "BSP for Bulgaria. "]] Mr. Bonev, please! Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches. Here you are, Mr. Apostolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u11	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I would like to justify our decision to vote abstention under the Bill proposed by the Council of Ministers. This is because when texts are proposed under the good preposition that we are synchronizing with European legislation, everything passes silently, by voting, by synchronization, by responsibilities and responsibilities that put us in place with these regulations and directives, and the Bulgarian national interest remains in the background. It is very well known, as stated in the Report, that these changes to the Plant Protection Act concern Directive and Regulation concerning softer preparations, doses, norms, plant passports and so on. We should be given a lamp and those experts who have proposed the texts should think about how in this Law on Plant Protection to protect the Bulgarian national interest as well. I will give you a few examples that may go beyond the framework of the scope under consideration in the Law, but are examples that show how the interests of Bulgarian farmers are damaged and the national interest is completely damaged. Let us remember what happened in 2017, when another wave of bird flu caught fire in the country and how it was imported into Bulgaria. It was imported to Bulgaria with some ducks transported from Hungary, accompanied by the so-called veterinary passport and veterinary certificate. Having such a passport and a certificate issued by n these doctors in the nth Hungarian district, we brought in some animals that blew up the entire territory of the country "birds" were destroyed and huge losses were caused for the Bulgarian economy. With what she had won as a market for duck and liver meat, we immediately moved from second to eighth only because the animals concerned had the so-called passport. Let's remember something else. There are farmers in the hall who always buy imported seeds, which are accompanied by the relevant documents of origin and quality again written papers somewhere. When it is found that there are diseases, diseases or foreign seeds in these seeds, for which, if it is a Bulgarian producer, will be immediately destroyed, but entered by the European Union under the good excuse that everything is okay there, I can convince you, colleagues, that everything is not okay. We receive in our country and we sow seeds of unclear origin in Bulgarian fields, seeds that are infected, seeds that filled the Bulgarian fields with wild oats. Just for the record, I will give you that according to Bulgarian standards only one grain of wild oats in one batch of seed material leads to destruction of the entire batch and seeds imported into Bulgaria blew up the entire Northeastern part of the country and infected the Bulgarian fields with this weed, which was completely unknown to Northern Bulgaria. That is why we voted abstention so that we could light a light for the importers and find a way and form to protect the Bulgarian interests. Because by not defending them and opening up the boundaries for the uncontrolled entry of everything and at all costs, because it is accompanied by the paper certificate, which is traceability along the way, it does not mean anything, because in Bulgarian fields we do not sow papers, but we plant what we receive. I will finish with the famous shipment of chicken meat from Poland, which was also with documents, but you know very well what was infected with it also had veterinary certificates.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u12	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. I put to the first vote a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Plant Protection Act No 002-01-20 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 June 2020. They voted 131 MPs: 121, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the second item of today's agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEDURAL RULES FOR CONDITIONS AND PROCUREMENT OF A PRESIDENT AND MEMBERS OF THE COMMISSION FOR ENERGY AND WATER REGULATION, OUT OF THE SELECTED MEMBERS REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 41 OF THE TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS OF THE COUNTERPARTY LAW AND COMPLIANCE OF THE ENERGY LAW (ORB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, TB, T 17 of 2015, DEA, B.C. 48 Since 2015), PRESENTATION AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND HEARING IN THE ENERGY COMMISSION, AND THE PROCEDURE FOR SELECTING FROM PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. Mr. Nikolov, would you like to introduce us to the Report?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u13	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision adopting the Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the proposal of the Chair and members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, outside the elected members pursuant to § 41 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act (promise, SG No. No. 17 of 2015, Dop., No. 48 from 2015), presentation and public disclosure of documents and their hearing in the Energy Committee, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly At its regular meeting held on 13 February 2020, the Energy Commission discussed and voted on Rules of Procedure for conducting a public procedure under art. 93 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for the election of members outside the elected in accordance with § 41 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act (promise, SG No. No. 17 of 2015, Dop., No. 48 from 2015). In relation to art. 11, para. 2 and 5 of the Energy Act and under § 41 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act (prom., SG No. No. 17 of 2015, Dop., No. 48 from 2015) The National Assembly shall elect a Chair, two members with experience in the field of energy, one member with experience in the field of water supply and sewerage and one member with economist, the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory: After the discussion was concluded and on the basis of the vote held, the Energy Committee with 13 votes for the Council, without the opposition and the abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to examine and adopt the following draft decision: Project! DECISION adopting the Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the proposal of the President and members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, outside the elected members pursuant to § 41 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act (promise, SG No. No. 17 of 2015, Dop., No. 48 from 2015), presentation, public disclosure of documents and hearing in the Energy Committee, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art.11, para. 2 and 5 of the Energy Act and art. 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the proposal of the Chair and members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, outside the elected members, pursuant to § 41 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act (promised, SG No. No. 17 of 2015, Dop., No. 48 from 2015), presentation, public disclosure of documents and hearing in the Energy Committee, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. I. Offering a Chair and members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and submitting their documents. 1. Proposals for the Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, two members with experience in the field of energy, one member with experience in the field of water supply and sewerage and one member with economy, shall be made by MPs or by parliamentary groups. The proposals shall be submitted in writing to the Energy Commission through the President of the National Assembly within 7 days of the adoption of these rules. 2. The proposals for a Chair and members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission shall contain written reasons to justify the good professional reputation of the applicant concerned. The proposal shall be accompanied by: (a) the written consent of the applicant to be proposed for the position under the model Annex 1 to the decision; (b) Declaration under art. 12, para. 1 of the Energy Act, that the candidate is a decommissioned Bulgarian citizen "Annex No 2 to the Decision; (c) written consent of the applicant under art. 27, para. 2 of the Act for Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army according to the model Annex 3 to the Decision; (d) a detailed CV; (e) certified by the applicant a copy of a diploma for completed higher education with an educational-qualification degree of Master. (f) documents certifying that the applicant proposed for: (aa) President shall comply with the requirement of professional experience under art. 12, para. 1, t. 2 point (e) in relation to § 1, point (e) 59 or 59a of the Energy Act; (bb) a member with experience in the field of energy shall meet the requirement of professional experience under art. 12, para. 1, t. Paragraph 2 (a) and (b) of this Article shall apply mutatis mutandis from the date of entry into force of this Agreement and from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. 59 of the Energy Act; (c) a member with internship in the field of water supply and sewerage shall comply with the requirement of professional internship under art. 12, para. 1, t. 2 point (b) in relation to § 1, point (b) 59a of the Energy Act; (d) a member who is an economist shall meet the requirement for professional internship under art. 12, para. 1, t. 2 (b) of the Energy Act. 3. The circumstances of art. 12, para. 1, t. 3 of the Energy Act is established by the administration of the National Assembly. II. Public disclosure of documents. 1. The proposals, together with the documents attached to them, shall be published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly without delay, but not later than 5 days before the hearing. 2. The publication of the proposals and documents shall be carried out in compliance with the Personal Data Protection Act. 3. Non-profit legal entities registered for public use and professional organisations may submit opinions to the Committee on Energy on the proposed candidates, including questions to be put to them no later than three days before the hearing of the candidates. 4. The mass media may send to the Commission on energy issues to the candidates to be assigned to them. 5. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. 6. The opinions and questions are sent by mail to the city of Sofia, Knyaz Aleksandar I: No 1, Energy Commission, or by e-mail: komisia_energetika@parliament.bg. The opinions and questions are published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly, subject to the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. III. Perform a preliminary check under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army 1. Candidates shall be checked for belonging to the bodies referred to in art. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The request for prior verification under art. 27, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army are made by the Chairman of the Energy Commission. 2. The results of the verification shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly. IV. It's a hearing of the candidates. 1. Before hearing the proposed candidates, the Energy Commission shall verify the documents submitted and whether the applicant complies with the relevant requirements for the post for which it is proposed. 2. The hearing of the admitted candidates shall be held in an open meeting of the Energy Committee, which shall be broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. 3. The candidates shall be submitted by the importers of the proposals in alphabetical order of the names of the applicants within two minutes of a candidate. The presentation also includes details of specific preparation, motivation, public reputation and public support for the applicant. 4. Personal presentation of candidates and their concept of the Commission's energy and water regulation activities as a regulatory authority with a view to the position for which they are proposed to a candidate within 10 minutes. 5. The Energy Committee shall hold debates on the proposals made. The Members of the National Assembly shall place their questions separately to the candidates for the Chair and to the candidates for members in alphabetical order of the first names of the candidates in two minutes of the Member of the National Assembly. Upon completion of the questions asked to each candidate by all Members of the National Assembly, he shall answer within 10 minutes. 6. The President of the Energy Commission shall, in summary, present the opinions and ask the questions of the persons referred to in Article 1. 93, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, to which no reply has been received within two minutes each. 7. The applicant's reply to the submitted opinions and the questions raised within 5 minutes. 8. The Commission may request additional information from both the applicant and the relevant competent authority. 9. A full stenographic protocol is drawn up from the hearing, which is published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. 10. The Commission shall draw up within the meaning of art. 93, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a report from the hearing of the candidates, to which a list of candidates who participated in the hearing is attached, arranged in alphabetical order of their own names, and submitted it to the National Assembly. The report shall be accompanied by a draft decision to select each candidate for the relevant position in the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. 11. The refusal of a candidate to participate in the hearing or its withdrawal from the importer shall not suspend the procedure with regard to the other candidates for the position concerned. V. Election of President and Members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission by the National Assembly. 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The National Assembly shall hear the report of the Energy Committee. 3. Each candidate shall be represented by the applicant within two minutes. 4. Debate on the nominations under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly shall be held. 5. The National Assembly shall elect separately the Chair of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, two members with experience in the field of energy, one member with experience in the field of water supply and sewerage and one member with an economist. 6. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system. If there are several candidates for one position, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the applicant's own names, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 7. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates for one position have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who has received the highest number of votes for the House shall be elected. 8. Where none of the candidates for the position concerned receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall take place, in which the two candidates who received the most votes for the position concerned shall take part. 9. If none of the candidates for the respective position receive the necessary votes in the second vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. 10. When one of the candidates refuses to participate in the election before voting on his candidacy by the National Assembly, and he is the only candidate for office, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure for this position. 11. If there is no candidate for any of the positions, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure for this position. VI. Obligation to declare incompatibility under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 and a change in the declared circumstances under art. 35, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property. 1. Upon completion of the selection procedure under Section V, the elected President and four members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission shall submit a declaration of incompatibility under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property in connection with art. 12, para. 2 and 3 of the Energy Act in accordance with Annex 4 to the Decision. 2. In the event of a change in the declared circumstances of the declaration referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1, the customs authorities of the Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the European Union of the other Member States of the European Union of the other Member States of the European Union of the European Union and of the other Member States of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union, of the one part, of the one part, of the other part, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the one part, of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, of the Republic of the other part, of the other part, of the Union, of the other part, Madam President, if you'll allow me to propose a change.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u14	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u15	We are talking about the beginning at the first Roman of the Decision, in relation to the period in which candidates are proposed: the 7-day period to become the 14-day period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u16	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Here you are, Mr. Ermenkov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u17	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The rules thus read before the editorial amendment by the rapporteur were guaranteed by the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Now I have a few questions. Don't take it as a pickle, but I'm interested in the situation we're in, what we're going to do. We are currently adopting Rules for the election of President and Members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission under the conditions of the Act in force. The day before yesterday, on the eve of the competition, we made a change in the Law, we reduced the required internship, I will not go into details why we did it, whether it was for someone, or because they need to be younger, it is a subject that is currently not the subject of the Rules. But this creates an uncertain state at the moment, because we place the conditions adopted the day before in the Law, depending on when and how these amendments will be published in the Official Journal...... will they enter into force and if they do not enter into force what do we do? At the same time, we put some other so interesting positions. The filing of documents is not actually 14 days, if we have to be exact, because if we count that there are exactly 14 days, this means that half of us will, roughly speaking, from that time we will submit the documents with requirements under the old law, and then we will submit them with the required documents under the new law!? Realistically, we are now adopting some Rules in which it should rather be written that the deadline for filing documents is five days after the promulgation of the Law, so that this chaos can really be gone. You know what I mean. It's purely legal, and I'm not saying it to get into trouble, but I want to clear it up so we know what we're doing. Otherwise, we find ourselves in the same situation that if, for any reason within 14 days, this law is not published in the Official Journal, why were we making a decision the day before and amending the Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act? Again, let's reconsider one more time for the deadline for these documents. Whether it is better to tie it to the publication in the Official Gazette rather than to place calendar days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u18	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u19	I'll give you a line, Mr. Ermenkov, so if you want, you can take my word for it. I am not a lawyer, of course, but I have examined the issue even with the Legal Directorate of the National Assembly. In reality, the references made by the Law act at the moment, while this law is valid, that is, you are right. This 14-day period is currently valid for the current law. If the new one is published, the new amendments apply from this moment on. In fact, if the president returns the Law for any reason, then in this case we will choose the old ones. This shows that we have basically not focused on a specific candidate, but there are indeed specific candidates that we want to look at and that come into the new amendments, but ultimately, what has come of it. The important thing is to have more candidates, more transparency and be able to look at their biographies, professional experience and their vision of how they see the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory functioning. So I don't see an obstacle to both periods within this 14-day period, but ultimately, whatever happens. The important thing is that there will be candidates who meet all these conditions. I don't think it's that big a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u20	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Second line? I can't see. Mr. Ermenkov, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u21	Again, I am not questioning anything that we have accepted in Parliament. Whether we agreed with him or not is a separate job, but it is already a fact in the legal area and exists as conditions on which four members and president of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission should be elected. I ask again: is it not better, instead of setting an interim deadline, to make the editorial amendment a few days after the promulgation of the Law? I ask him because that means that this is exactly and clearly putting that it will be by the new rules, there will be no problems, there will be no changes. In the end, so far, we have a Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory that works, and I do not see why and what will prevent such a clarification, thereby avoiding the possibility of a double interpretation of the rules. That's what I meant, nothing else.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u22	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. A statement? Here you are, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, the criteria presented by the Energy Commission are no different from what has been before. I think that with these criteria, we have chosen the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission several times so far and I propose that we vote as proposed by the project. What Mr. Ermenkov has to offer, I'm not buying you a shirt today. [[Elevator bell dings]] , and your concern is that if the amendment of the Law is not eventually entered in the Official Journal, there is no way to choose it under the new law. If this law is never registered in the Official Gazette, this means that we have waited two months because of the pandemic, imagine another three months and does not go out in the State Gazette, will we wait for this Commission to work? Well, we're gonna walk by legal rules, so I suggest we vote on the draft criteria as proposed, and every institution should follow its legal rules from there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u24	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I would like to ask my fellow Members to enter the Chamber to take a vote. First, I will put to the vote the editorial amendment made by Mr. Nikolov in I.1. the period of 7 days to become 14 days. Please vote. 120 MPs voted: 120, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I now vote on the whole draft decision with the corresponding editorial amendment, which we have just adopted and the annexes from one to five to the draft decision. Vote 119 MPs: 118, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we have exhausted the legislative part of the sitting with this. We continue with parliamentary control at 11:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u25	Dear Members of the National Assembly, we continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. No requests have been received for the period 12 June 2020. Written answers from: - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Polina Tsankova; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Krastina Taskova; - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister for Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from the National Representative Christian Vigenin; - Minister of Justice Danail Kirilov on a question from the National Representative Dora Yankova; - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov on a question from the National Representative Slavcho Atanasov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on a question from the MP Konstantin Popov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on three questions from the National Representative Dora Yankova; - Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov of two questions from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Stoilov. With that, we finish and move on to parliamentary control. We begin with Mr. Tomislav Donchev, Deputy Prime Minister, who will answer a question from the National Representative Ivo Hristov about a reaction to the attempts to change the status of the church. Sofia. In Istanbul. You have the floor, Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u26	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! This issue should not be treated as interference in the internal affairs of otherwise friendly Turkey, but only as an official concern for the fate of the Byzantine Cultural Monument. Sofia. In Istanbul. It is dictated by publications in leading Turkish media, translated into Bulgarian media. On May 29, 2020, the Turkish president demonstrably said that the monumental museum building "St. Sofia. In Istanbul it will be turned into a mosque. The date was not chosen by chance. I remind you that on May 29, 1453 Constantinople fell under Ottoman rule. So reading the Qur'an on this very day in the temple, which is a museum of 1934, is probably not an accident. The Greek government, for example, described it as provocation and strongly protested then. In response to Athens, Turkey's foreign minister said of the property and said, quote: "St. Sofia is in Turkish territory. What we do in our country with our property, we decide..................................................................................................... It has a huge symbolic and sacral meaning, especially for Orthodox Christianity. Because of its exceptional architecture, historians define it as the eighth wonder of the world. ♪ St. John's Day ♪ The Church of the Holy Wisdom of God, that is, one of the ipostates of Jesus Christ, was the first Patriarchal temple, later Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, my question is: Will there be a reaction from the Bulgarian state on the occasion of the intention to change the status of the museum. From a monument of the world cultural heritage in an active Muslim temple? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. You have the floor to answer, dear Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u28	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Hristov, you are right in the facts that have been set out in your question. There were similar announcements not only from the President, but also from ministers, but I propose to shed more light on the procedure, and I will not underestimate your awareness, nor do I intend to spend unnecessary parliamentary time making the obvious and explaining the immense cultural and historical importance of the Basilica. Sofia. I only recall that the international organisation that monitors the preservation of such monuments is UNESCO, which is carried out on the basis of the Convention on World Cultural and Natural Heritage, adopted in 1972 and signed by 193 countries. The basilica itself. Sofia is included in UNESCO's world list since 1985 as one of the elements of Istanbul's historic parts. Hypothetically, if it comes to a review of the status of the cultural site, this issue should be discussed at a session of the UNESCO World Heritage Committee and only then should the Bulgarian country have reason to react. This procedure has not yet been reached. I will also shed light on part of the process before it comes to consideration in UNESCO at all. The decision whether to change the status of St. Sofia is expected to be taken by a mosque museum in two weeks. The Association of Ancient Monuments and the Environment has petitioned the Supreme Court of Turkey to examine whether Mustafa Kemal Ataturk's signature in the 1934 Decree for the conversion of "St. The museum is real or fake. That's not the first demand. It has been filed several times so far, and we must note that all complaints have been rejected by the Supreme Court so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Donchev. A line, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u30	Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues! It is clear to ask a question what is the Bulgarian interest in the status of an object located on foreign territory. I've already stated in my question that the status of St. George's. Sofia is concerned to one extent or another with all the countries that are located in the Orthodox cultural civilization circle. In this sense, it has an important, sacred, symbolic meaning for us. It also matters as a temple that is purely emotionally at stake to be the basis of the architecture of the Byzantine type of cultural heritage, to which we belong a cultural circle. The great Kemal Ataturk, the father of modern Turkey, accidentally issued the decree in question, which you said was unsuccessfully trying to question. He realized that modern, modern Turkey can only exist on the recognition and development of both the Islamic and Christian heritage, whose successor is modern Turkey. The attempt to eliminate the Byzantine Christian heritage, and in some sense ours, would mean that Turkey is deprived of one of the two legs on which it stands. The legal side of the question you've already exposed. What I'm afraid of, and what you said in your reply is that it is said seriously that on July 15th the status of the museum will be changed. Of course, it's a long procedure. I believe that we should not remain indifferent to the fate of this temple. There is one more thing: even the conqueror of Istanbul, Mehmed Khan, has actually saved the city and, in particular, the church, as he has saved it from destruction, making the Enicari simply smear the frescoes, which we are currently seeing again as a result of restoration. I hope that the Bulgarian government will show character and backbone beyond the political situation when it comes to issues that are outside the vicious political order, but concern our identity as a people and as an Orthodox country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u31	Thank you, Mr. Christov. We continue the second question to Mr. Donchev. Before that, the procedure. Mr. Kutev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My procedure in the manner of conduct is related to a returned question which was addressed through Tsveta Karayancheva to Boyko Borisov, as is the order in the National Assembly. The issue was the Armenian genocide. I very much wanted to discuss with the Prime Minister the issue of Armenian genocide. He was returned with the absolutely outrageous argument, in my opinion, that, you see, it was also in the authority of the foreign minister. By the way, a huge part of European countries, like the United States, have already recognised Armenian genocide. This has happened at two levels either at the level of government or at the level of parliament, so the involvement of the foreign minister in this matter is absolutely inopportunity. This is either the work of parliament, which already has a declaration adopted previously, or of the government. I wanted to hear his opinion because in the declaration that the Bulgarian Parliament has adopted, it is written that there is no Armenian genocide in Turkey, there is a mass extermination. I was very interested to know the difference between genocide and mass extermination, according to the Prime Minister? On purpose I asked this question precisely through the President of the National Assembly, so should it be through Tsveta Karayancheva, because I assumed that she would also be interested in how she distinguishes the Prime Minister Borisov genocide from the mass extermination. We have learned that evil languages in the last few weeks have spread the rumour that he obviously disagrees with Karayancheva's interpretation. In fact, some voice was officially telling me that I could hear there, right, I don't know if it was his, that, you see, she didn't know genocide from mass extermination. I bet Boyko Borisov can't explain to me the difference between genocide and mass extermination. I really wanted to talk to him about it here because it's a key issue. We haven't admitted Armenian genocide. We've confessed mass extermination, but what's the difference? Tsveta Karayancheva doesn't know. But Boyko Borisov doesn't know?! I really wanted to talk to him about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. You are entitled to your expectations. I, too, have the expectation that you will fulfill the Rules as we have recorded it and move your discontent towards another authority that you are well acquainted with. Thank you. Mrs. Ninova, you're welcome to present the declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u34	Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, colleagues! Dear Bulgarian citizens, do you remember the summer of 2018? On 11 July, the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency announced the primary outbreaks of small ruminants plague in the villages of Kranovo, Strandzha, Sharkovo, Bolyarovo municipality. A number of decisions and actions of the institutions to kill animals followed. The people of the region did not believe that there was an outbreak and resisted. People from all over the country flocked to Sharkovo and formed a living chain around Grandma Dora's house. Then they turned to us for help, and we stood by them. We fought on two fronts there, on the spot, with fellow MPs and here in the National Assembly. In our attempt to stop the unjustified decision to kill the animals, we brought in a number of questions, organised debates for hours. I personally participated in the talks in the cabinet of the Speaker of Parliament, where we persuaded with arguments the headquarters, ministers and the prime minister to stop! But you, the honourable rulers, have continued. You killed thousands of animals for no reason at the time, and today we have evidence of that. Protests followed in Sofia before the Council of Ministers. Here's your position and the headlines from two years ago: Cornella Ninova is responsible for the animal plague. Its aim is to bring down GERB with a coup, Ninova organizes and gives instructions to the protesters for a moving coup................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. And Mr. Borisov, with his inherent cynicism for the pain of the people here, said from this place: "Cornelia Ninova amazingly reminds me of Chancellor Merkel. With the same tricks they put her in this procedure as you, Mrs. Ninova, with the goats. They gave away the Mediterranean, corpses, drowned people, drowned little kid. It was a powerful hybrid attack and she fell for it just like you do now. I, because I love animals very much, and I envied you, and I wanted to caress the goats. Mr. Borisov, but instead of petting them, you killed them illegally! A brave woman found herself in Bolyarovo, who, with our help, stood up to this iniquity. You didn't let the vets on your farm. You punished her with a fine. You wiped out her holding in the registers, thinking that you would erase the problem of hundreds of people in Yambol, but you didn't break it. We helped her. She filed a lawsuit, and after two years, the truth came out. There she is. [[Shows document.]] Decision No 7606 of the Supreme Administrative Court In the case at hand, there is no conclusive evidence of the development of the disease of small ruminants over time and in the particular region and its extent of spread. And further on: For the declared 11 dead animals there is no evidence that they were infected with the plague. Moreover, the evidence of the case, the testimony of the witnesses who, even if they were not present in the specific data of the checks referred to in the order of the Director, establish the good health status of the herd in the establishments during the different periods during July 2018 and the evidence provided by the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences on the presence of animals at the date of the adoption of the administrative act, it is established that 203 numbers of sheep kept on the establishment are alive, including both sheep with the above-mentioned ear marks with the indicated positive results for the presence of antigen and the genome of the plague virus. The analysis of the evidence in the case disproves the conclusion of an imminent danger to the health of people and animals in the region. And now, now it's time for answers, even after two years. Here I see some of the speakers and the creators of those titles that I read to you sitting on the right. You're not responsible for these headlines, you're just doing someone else's will. There's someone else who needs to answer. I'll get to that. But today I invite you here to answer: why did you lie that there was an animal plague in Strandja, why did you kill them? Why did you wipe out the work of dozens of families? Why did you depopulate the area? Why did you lie to Europe and how much money came out of Europe against a lie? Are you going to say, "Quietly, quietly, so we don't get punished for fraud?".. Is this the party for the European development of Bulgaria? One must answer here because from that time the ministers changed, the director of the Food Agency too. One is responsible for this policy of genocide in that region and this is Mr. Borisov. The question is: why? People's fears at the time, lack of information, false lab tests created insane versions. I know they're not true. It was said that the region was depopulated in order to settle refugees; that animals were killed to hide abuse of subsidies; that domestic production was destroyed to give way to large corporations to import meat into Bulgaria. Surely none of this is true, it was a result of fears, but the question remains: then why? If none of this is true, why did you do it?! I want to tell you that this will not go unpunished. It's time for justice. And in order for there to be no new talk of coups, I will clearly and categorically state what we will do by thanking my fellow MPs for all their efforts so far, Christian personally, for being with the people who cared for them. We'll do this: First, we will call Mr. Borisov here for a hearing to explain what he did and why he did it. Secondly, I will take all the transcripts from the long hours, late nights and any talks in the office of the President of the National Assembly and announce them. Let's see who's talking there. Let's see how I strongly state: "There is no plague on small ruminants in Yambol! " and how I am answered that I am currently organizing a coup. This is all gonna go public. Next, I will organize and help anyone who feels affected to file a civil suit for the damage caused by you. We'll help anyone who wants to file criminal lawsuits for the crimes of power. And this, honourable government, will not be a coup, but a concern for the people, and this will not be a threat to national security, but justice in Bulgaria. Finally, I address all Bulgarians: I know that sometimes you are afraid, we know that they scare you, crush you, racketeer you, but look at this fragile woman Annie from Bolyarovo. When you're right and brave, the truth wins. More than ever today, it is time to be brave and united, to help each other with common solutions and actions against the incompetent, corrupt, harmful and already dangerous for Bulgaria management of Boyko Borisov. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. We continue with the second question to Mr. Tomislav Donchev. He is from the Parliamentary Representative Dora Yankova on the European Union recovery plan. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u36	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Ministers! Dear Mr. Donchev, the European Commission presented on 27 May 2020 a project to create a fund to restore the economy of the European Union after the pandemic, which is proposed to be worth 750 billion. Euros. The European Commission's proposal is initially and subject to changes. Bulgaria is expected to be able to rely on 15 billion. EUR of the funds provided for in the European Union recovery fund presented by its President. However, in order to receive this money, our country must first transfer 3.3 billion. EUR, which is nearly 8% of its gross domestic product. In other words, there is a chance that it will receive under the European Commission's plan net 11.7 billion. EUR in the form of loans and grants. From the proposal and the discussion in the European Commission, there are serious conditions which each Member must prepare. The countries are expected to set their own goals and deadlines for implementing the projects to be supported by the Fund to prepare national plans. Sounds like a lot of questions. We are one of the member states that, according to the plan, must pay 3.3 billion. Euros. Here we need to know publicly and transparently everything because this is an expression of responsibility to the taxpayers of Bulgaria. At the same time, it is clear that the plan is not final and is still being discussed. And here the question is: how is the Bulgarian government involved in this discussion, what is Bulgaria's position at the time of the creation of the final version of the recovery plan? Naturally, the Bulgarian government is at the heart of the discussion about the creation of such a plan. Please inform me what is the participation of the Bulgarian government in the discussion, the preparation for the forthcoming adoption of the European Union Recovery Plan and at what stage is the activity related to the preparation of the national plan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. You have the floor to answer, dear Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u38	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yankova, first of all, I would like to clarify that the procedure and method of decision on the Multiannual Financial Framework, including the new proposal of the European Commission, called New Generation EU and the relevant sectoral legislation, are governed by the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. As a full member of the Union, Bulgaria is actively involved in the negotiation process of the established Council, Council of the European Union, and in each of these formats our country expresses its position, including with regard to the new proposal made by the European Commission. Before that, I would like to inform you, or rather correct you, because some of the numbers you mentioned are not quite accurate at first. Secondly, there is no requirement for our country to have access to funding, to make money transfers before that. Perhaps the procedure will require that state guarantees be issued at a certain stage after the adoption of the proposal, the idea underlying the proposal is, including through debt generation, that it be repaid, including through future own revenues of the European Union itself. If you want a brief comment from me, this proposal, although I do not like strong words, is revolutionary, extremely brave, basically an adequate response from the European Union to deal with the effects of the crisis. It is difficult to make an accurate forecast, but I could predict that in an option close to the one proposed, it will be accepted. Before I bring more clarity to what preparatory activities are going to government level......... nothing that this proposal is not accepted, we are obliged to work in advance............................................... that this proposal is not accepted....................... Let me mention the numbers: a total of around 12 billion and 845 million, of which more than 9 billion access to free funding and more than 3 billion access to loans, of course, if the state wants to use it, of which the so-called React-EU fastest instrument, where there are 692 million. Euros. They can be made available immediately after the adoption of the annual financial framework, which could also mean within this year; an additional 2 billion. 24 million. This is the instrument that will finance decarbonisation policies; 376 million addition to the Rural Development Programme and the largest instrument worth more than 6 billion, we could translate it as a recovery and sustainability tool. This is the largest source of funding. I specify that when we talk about the React-EU instrument, it must be spent, the money from it must be invested in a horizon by 2022, and with regard to the Recovery and Sustainability Instrument, making spontaneous translation, there is 2024. These are short horizons, but ultimately this instrument is focused on dealing with the economic, of course, and the health consequences of the pandemic. All this is combined with the ambitious task of not being just a recovery tool, but of being an instrument to speed up economic transformation in Europe and improve the state of the Member States' economies. Although we still have no accepted proposal, despite the partial ambiguity in terms of a bunch of details relating to eligibility rules, types of costs that can be covered, we have only political announcements that the main focus will be measures to restore the economy, measures to strengthen health systems, accelerated investment in innovation, digitalisation. We are already working, preparing a first version of this national document to be presented to the European Commission. I think that at the end of the summer we will be ready to enter into public consultation because it is not appropriate to draw up such a document only internally, by experts of the ministries or the Council of Ministers. It should be discussed with all those who are relevant not only to know, not only to express attitude, but also to be ready for everything that follows. The deadline for submission of the plans by the Member States is expected to be until April next year, but I think we should make the necessary national mobilisation such a document to be drawn up and presented earlier, which would give Bulgaria a chance to use this funding earlier. I am convinced that in the autumn season we will have the opportunity to discuss even at the level of detail all measures that will be part of the plan, all sectors that need to be financed. For me, the ambitious effort must be in the direction of combining in the best way recovery measures with measures for economic transformation and growth. It would be a mistake if we think only and only how to help the one who needs us to do it, but at the same time we have to think about how investments go to the one who has a chance to grow from here on, given the political accents behind the new proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Donchev. The line, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers, Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Council of Ministers! Thank you for your answer. Perhaps with your answer and with today's current question in Parliament, it is precisely the preparation of the government and the work on this fund that has been announced for the first time. Unfortunately, what we have as members of parliament, we read from the media. It's a good thing you adjusted some of the numbers. We are all aware that after this pandemic, our country is at a crucial time, as is the European Union, and that the crisis is also an opportunity, that together with the care for the health of the nation there is an extremely serious responsibility for the health of the economy. We have a unique chance as a country within European solidarity to restructure and restart the economy as an opportunity to treat the currently ill economic organism. We can actually come out of this crisis stronger as an economy and as a modern solidarity society. I think and appeal to you as a representative of the government that right now is the moment with the potential of the entire nation, with its intellectual capacity to create an original Bulgarian development plan that can restructure if we wish, and if you wish, even the oligarchical status quo at the moment. With these funds that can be obtained, this could break the current public relations. You have made a slight announcement, but I turn to you, as perhaps you will be at the centre as vice-president of the Council of Ministers: attract all the intellectual potential of the nation. People need to see their perspective and their position for themselves, because at this uncertain time, in rising unemployment, it allows them to shrink and not be able to move forward. I asked my question for another reason, too, perhaps early and in advance, because I know, and the President herself of the European Commission has made such an announcement that the price of inaction in this crisis can sometimes be much more expensive. I consider precisely the medium and long-term measures that we are taking, with the internal resources that are now being worked on, for assistance to the Bulgarian economy and to the Bulgarian citizens. This is why I think that we have the opportunity to give other perspective to the young Bulgarians, I think that these discussions should be public and that our country has a unique chance. The government is on trial, it should be in the center, but it should be involved in this plan and the entire Bulgarian people.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u42	Dear Mrs. Yankova, while I do not aim to replicate you, because I agree with much of what I have said, I just want to clarify that about ten days ago I had the opportunity to present in detail to the Parliamentary Committee what this proposal looks like to the European Commission and what Bulgaria is doing to benefit from it in the best way. The numbers I mentioned in order not to make mistakes and mixed interpretations are published on the Council of Ministers' website. I agree with you that the Bulgarian government should be the motor, it should stay in the center of these processes, but they should not be locked only in state institutions. The document, the plan Bulgaria will provide to the European Commission, must be subject to a critical public consensus.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Donchev. Thank you for your participation in parliamentary control today. We continue with the questions to Mr. Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance. He'll answer one question and one question. The question is from the MPs Rumen Gechev and Georgi Svilenski about a new concept for the taxation of gambling, declared by the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov in March 2016. Here you are, dear Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u44	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mr. Goranov, on 11 March 2016 with Вр. No 654-06-438 People's Representative at the Forty-third National Assembly Georgi Svilenski raises a question about the development of a concept for the taxation of gambling, accompanied by an impact assessment in accordance with § 16 of the Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Gambling Act. 105 of 19 December 2014 I am opening the clamp. This is about a law which in § 16 obliges the Council of Ministers and you as the principal responsible for the gambling sector to prepare the relevant bill and strategy. In your written reply of 15 March 2016, you are replicating the aforementioned provision of § 16 that the Council of Ministers is developing a concept of gambling taxation, accompanied by an impact assessment, and is making the necessary legislative changes to the National Assembly. A little further in your reply You write. It is a written answer from you to Mr. Svilensky: "The Finance Department" you write "You" has developed a concept for taxing gambling activities, including five main components: 1. analysis of the current regime of taxation of gambling activity in Bulgaria; "2." European legislation in this area; 3. analysis of the patterns of taxation of gambling activity in the European Union; "4." a proposal for a new model of taxation; It's five o'clock. The necessary legislative changes... you write. End quote. Our question to you is: where is the new Law on Gambling promised by you to the Bulgarian Parliament? Where is the government's promised new concept of gambling? With today's date: what is your concept of taxing gambling activity in Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. You have the floor to answer, dear Mr. Goranov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u46	Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, fellow ministers! In accordance with the abovementioned provision at the beginning of 2015 the Ministry of Finance developed a concept for the taxation of gambling activity in Bulgaria, including an analysis of the current regime of taxation of the country, as you have quoted, European legislation on the taxation of gambling activity and an analysis of the patterns of taxation of gambling activity in other Member States of the European Union. The analysis of the practice of taxing gambling activities in 8 Member States of the European Union, with the most developed gambling market, showed a very wide variety in Belgium, Great Britain, Germany, Denmark, Spain, Italy, Malta, France, using a combined tax approach including tax on gambling activities, profit tax and licence fees, i.e. close to actions in Bulgaria tax regime. The diversity of taxation is both in terms of different types of gambling and in terms of organizing gambling in a traditional way or online. Given that there is no single European approach in the taxation of gambling and that there are no recommendations from the European Commission for such an approach, each Member State of the European Union chooses itself what the model of taxation should be in line with the specifics and regulations of the national gambling market. The analysis outlined several main trends related to gambling taxation in the Member States of the European Union. First, taxation of gross profits is the preferred model of taxation of gambling by Member States, considering it to be more effective than the taxation of bets. The tax rate, depending on the tax base, is where the tax base is gross profit, the rate of tax is higher than 15 to 25, or on a progressive scale, depending on the amount of gross profit. Where the tax base is the bets received, the rate is lower than 2 to 8. The betting tax regime is in most cases reserved for gambling, which is a state monopoly. Traditional gambling is generally taxed at a higher rate than online betting, but there is a trend of uniformity of tax rates for gambling regardless of how they are organised. The developed concept proposed a new tax regime for gambling activities in Bulgaria, including the taxation of gambling games with gambling tax, the taxation of gambling activities with corporate tax and the payment of licence fees, including an initial licence fee and annual licence fees for maintaining a license. In connection with this new regime for taxing gambling activity, proposals for changes to the CDC, the Law on Income Tax of Individuals and the Law on Gambling were drawn up together with motives and impact assessment. The model of taxation of gross profit is the effective tool for reducing the share of illegal gambling activity. Reducing the illegal market leads to an increase in budget revenues, better protection of gamblers, as well as a more effective fight and prevention of gambling addiction. Most Member States of the European Union have changed the regime of taxing gambling in exchange for the bet tax on gross profits. At the same time, it should be noted that the taxation model included in the concept requires the introduction of a complex system which, on the one hand, should benefit from the gaming organisers to determine gross profits as a tax base and, on the other, the Income Administration to carry out an effective preventive current and subsequent control, which in turn would lead to a significant increase in administrative burden. It is necessary to take into account the fact that the taxation of gambling activities in Bulgaria has always been a focus of public attention and any change in the volume and type of taxation is subject to different interpretations. Due to these circumstances, the developed concept and a new model of taxing gambling activities were not presented to the National Assembly and the current model of taxation of gambling in Bulgaria was preserved, which is very close to the models of taxation of gambling activities in European countries with the most developed gambling market and is consistent with the specifics of the national market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u47	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for two questions, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u48	Thank you. I listened with great interest. If you had read an excerpt from the Godfather, it would have had the same effect, since you are not answering in substance, but I will ask you two additional questions. Mr. Minister, for five years you have not implemented the law................................ and the President's Decree, then Mr. Plevneliev. You don't do it! My first question is: why? Because you can't do it or because you didn't want to do it, obviously in the service of an organized crime group, so there's no 700 million? Can't or won't? My second question: how long are you going to hold... You, why don't you fire your appointed civil servants who have resulted in 700 million losses, according to your words? Why do they continue to stand there on high wages without any responsibility? At least take the sugar out of their coffee. Why don't you fire the civil servants you said were responsible for 700 million? Those are my two questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u49	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u50	That rule in § 16 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law does indeed award an intermediate legislative initiative by the Council of Ministers. You understand that no one can be forced to implement a certain legislative initiative, insofar as it is only a right and is not an obligation under a Constitution. On the other hand, I have explained that the different aspects of taxation in European countries are being reasoned, but what we have decided is that there is no need to change the taxation model. Naturally, during this same period, each Member of the National Assembly, apart from the Council of Ministers, has had the opportunity to propose different amendments to the tax regime in previous years, including on your proposals, similar changes to the Gambling Act have occurred. With regard to the implementation of criminal or administrative liability in respect of infringements, the competent authority shall be the Prosecutor's Office with regard to criminal liability here. It is actively working, as far as I know, on this subject relating to unlawful conduct by the Gambling Commission. As far as administrative liability is concerned, you are probably referring, because in a previous question you have raised the subject of an employee of the National Revenue Agency, in the absence of proven guilt or violation of the duties of a particular employee, I cannot, although I may wish, this cannot be carried out by an act of the Minister of Finance, in so far as this civil servant is working in an administration and the appointing authority is another body and not the Minister of Finance, I do not think that such responsibility should be carried out in the absence of any administrative infringements of the relevant officer relating to the performance of his office, or criminal liability which is currently under investigation and will be carried out if it is proved in court.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u51	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor, dear Mr. Gechev, to express your attitude about the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Goranov, your answer to the first question is a step. Let me read you the Law one more time. The Council of Ministers shall develop a concept of gambling taxation, accompanied by an impact assessment, and shall submit the necessary legislative changes to the National Assembly by 28 February 2015. The Law shall enter into force on 1 January 2015 and shall enter into force on the date of its publication in the Official Journal of the An order, President, President of the National Assembly, then Mrs. Tsacheva. We have an expression: where are you? Parliament has told you that by 28 February, you are obliged by the Council of Ministers and you, as a principal, to submit a draft law. You say here you're thinking. This is the style of Mr. Borisov and your style, very interesting! You can't think about anything. You have not fulfilled the Law, so there will be consequences. We will submit a written request to the Attorney General to deal with this matter. Secondly, you say that no one is guilty of the second question. No one is guilty of 700 million. lv. They're gone. No, they're there, they're coming out of drawers. And you're right that the investigation and the prosecution, no doubt, must come to how the 700 million are divided. lv. between the organized crime group. And also do not imagine that this is the end of the debate. We've prepared you a complete stunt of questions. I'll give the Speaker of Parliament, please. [[sends document folder]] , signatures by over 60 people from our parliamentary group to debate next Friday, then questions begin endlessly, every kilometer, every Friday, until we see how the money Have a nice day.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u53	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. In connection with the previous inquiry, by letter No 054-00-43 of 19 June, submitted today at 11.44 pm, a request was received to hold a debate on question No 054-05-26 of 3 June 2020 and a draft decision on the inquiry by the MPs Rumen Gechev and Georgi Svilenski to the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a new concept for the taxation of gambling games declared by the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov in March 2016. The proposal and the draft decision have signed 62 MPs. This shall comply with the requirement of art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure one fifth of the Members of the National Assembly shall make a proposal to hold a debate on the questioning. On the basis of art. 105, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly, has scheduled the debates on the inquiry and voting of the draft decision for the next session designated for parliamentary control. We continue with the second question to Mr. Goranov. He is one of the MPs Alexander Paunov and Anton Kutev on the taxation of lottery games. Mr. Pawnov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u54	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! Prof. Gechev just said that the stunt of questions will begin. This is the beginning of the stunt.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u55	You guys are so scary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u56	Dear Minister, my questions to you are as follows. First, what imposed in 2014 on the adoption of legal changes for the taxation of lottery games to be 20% on the commission and not 15% on the turnover of gambling? Apparently, it's a very big difference to the detriment of the budget. Second, why the Ministry of Finance allowed a different interpretation of the Gambling Act by the National Lottery, which caused a damage to the state budget of 500 million. lv.? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u57	Thank you, Mr. Pawnov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u58	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I've read your question for a long time. It is not long in content, but with all due respect to you, especially to Mr. Kutev I did not understand it. You literally ask the following question: What did you impose in 2014 without referring to a specific bill, the adoption of the lottery tax to be 20% on the profit and not the 15% of the turnover proposed? ♪ Well, I didn't understand you, because that's not the case. First of all, if we have to adjust the subject, we need to talk about a taxi. Second, in 2014, nothing like this has been offered or accepted. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Law does not allow for lottery games the payment of a state fee under art. 30, para. 3 in the amount of 20% of the gross profit, the difference between the bets received and the wins paid. Since the adoption of the provision of 1 January 2014, including the subsequent amendment in force from 1 January 2015, the regime for determining the state fees for lottery games has always been the same " 15%' on the value of the bets made. So I couldn't understand the question what forced the adoption in 2014 for the lottery games to be 20% on profit and not the 15% on turnover?- Nothing has imposed it since 1 January 2014 and the regime for determining state fees for the lottery games is 15% on the value of the bets made. Your second question has more resonance and I have several times since the end of last year answer this question and it is as follows. Several gambling organizers have included in their rules for organizing the games a coup d'état interpretation of art. 30, having decided that lottery games can be taxed not by 15% on turnover, but in fact, you see, the lottery games were games on which fees and commissions are collected, which is contained in the hypothesis of para. 3 of the same art. 30. At no time did the law allow such an interpretation. The Gambling Commission has since 2014 validated similar rules for games contrary to the Law and allowed similar application of the Law by certain gambling operators. As soon as I received a signal from gaming organizers for such incorrect implementation of the Law at the end of 2019, I immediately commissioned an inspection by the State Financial Inspection, which identified the difference and incorrect application of the Law as you correctly quote, the difference in taxation. As a result, along with fees, interest rates for delays is established approximately 700 million unsubstantiated fees by certain gambling organizers. As a result of this finding, the Gambling Commission issued acts establishing public obligations which were confirmed by the Supreme Administrative Court in respect of the preliminary implementation and submitted to the NRA for implementation. The assets of these organisers are subject to postures with a view to securing public public public claims.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u59	Thank you, dear Mr. Goranov. Mr. Kutev, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u60	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Goranov, colleagues! Mr. Goranov, you say that, you see, some kind of signal in 2019. He had explained to you the situation how five years back were imported 100 million a year less, and at the same time these companies once every three months submitted documents to the Gambling Commission and the NRA. Minister, at what precise moment do you think you should have found this violation at the fifth year of the first year of the second year?! What prevented you from doing this job at the end of 2014. ▪ The beginning of 2015, as the Law obliges you? Just because you and Prime Minister Borisov did not implement the Law and did not make any legal changes until 28 February 2015 does not mean that you did not know what changes you had to make. You knew very well how to change things so that Bozhkov's companies, and maybe there are others we do not know about and you will find out not to withdraw the money so and not to damage the budget. But not only do you not do it here, in March 2016 you respond to colleague Svilenski and show that you know. Here you say what you need to do in connection with the Law, and why don't you do it? What are you doing in 2015, in 2016, in 2017, in 2018, so one of the players on the market in 2019 has to tell the Finance Minister that he is missing 700 million?! The Minister of Finance understands from one of the players who filed a complaint that he did not raise 700 million. I'm sorry! With all due respect to you and to your colleagues in this House, I would like to say that the easiest option from now on for you, for Borisov, for Bulgaria and for Parliament is to resign. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u61	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. That was Mr. Goranov's last question. Thank you for participating in parliamentary control today. We continue with Mr. Mladen Marinov, Minister of the Interior. He will answer a question from the MPs Rosen Malinov and Ivan Valentinov about the personnel policy of the Ministry of Interior. You have the floor to ask the question, Mr. Malinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u62	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, the question is asked in a broader aspect, but there is one clarification. The basis of the question is that more than half a year there are several cases in which the internal investigation of the Ministry of Interior found the participation of employees of the Ministry at different levels in illegal activities. The question of me and my colleague Ivanov is in this direction: first, how is the personnel policy of the Ministry of Interior implemented; what is the content and not the formal selection mechanism, training of the employees of the Ministry of Interior, because this topic is extremely sensitive and it needs to find its answer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u63	Thank you, dear Mr. Malinov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u64	Mr. President of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Malinov, Dear Mr. Ivanov, Countering Corruption is a top priority in the Programme for Government Management of the Republic of Bulgaria during the period 2017 - 2021. A strategic document on countering corruption among the authorities of the Ministry of Interior is the Concept for Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption in the Ministry of Interior 2016 - 2020, on the basis of which annual anti-corruption plans have been adopted, the Methodical Guidelines for the Implementation of the planned anti-corruption activities in the Ministry of Interior, as well as the Method for assessing the effectiveness of the work of the Ministry of Interior on Prevention and Countering Corruption have been developed. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 155 of the Act on the Ministry of Interior are specified requirements for entering a public service and in art. Art. 156, Art. 156a "requests', the main one is through a competition procedure, which is conducted under the conditions and in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Minister of Interior's regulation. The selection of candidates shall verify whether they comply with the general requirements for entering the State Service in the Ministry of Interior to have only Bulgarian citizenship, not to be convicted of a deliberate crime of a general nature, regardless of rehabilitation, not to be attracted as defendants or to be convicted of a deliberate crime of a general nature, of medical requirements for work in the Ministry of Interior, as defined by a regulation of the Minister of Interior and of the specific requirements of Decree No 8121z-34 of 25 July 2014 for age, education, physical fitness and psychological fitness. The competition procedure goes into three stages with elimination thresholds. The first stage is a physical fitness study, the second is a psychological study conducted by the Institute of Psychology of the Ministry of Interior in two parts, the third stage is the final interview to the respective appointed commission. In the last five years, 779 employees directly engaged in anti-corruption and detection activities related to corruption have been trained at the Academy of the Ministry of Interior, national and foreign institutes. The main objectives of the Corruption Trainings are prevention and countermeasure. Increasing employee competence builds specific habits for anti-corruption sustainability of employees, as well as capacity for analysis and implementation of the anti-corruption legislation. Through trainings conducted by foreign Ministry of Interior training institutions, employees are acquainted with international standards and relevant laws and administrative processes related to countering corruption, as well as share good practices and cases with employees from other Bulgarian or foreign administrations. Participants in this type of training develop more in-depth knowledge of corruption situations, intelligence methodologies, analysis and investigation of corruption crimes and violations. After updating the knowledge of the management of the Ministry of Interior in 2019, the Ministry of Interior Academy has developed a new course to update professional qualifications, which also include disciplines related to countering corruption in the Ministry of Interior. This process has continued up to now and has passed 101 staff holding executive positions in the Ministry of Interior. The rate of training of employees on anti-corruption problems in the Ministry of Interior is increased, the programs of the Ministry of Interior Academy for anti-corruption training with practical focus and respect for ethical norms are updated. Officials of the Directorate of Homeland Security have been trained with a view to the forthcoming implementation of the integrity tests at the Ministry of Interior and to exchange experience in the application of such tests with the United Kingdom. Trainings related to the implementation of the Public Procurement Act of employees engaged in public procurement, of the employees of the Internal Audit Unit and of the Directorate's Office shall be carried out with a view to carrying out public procurement checks and other procedures. The main advisory and coordination body for countering corruption in the Ministry of Interior is the Internal Affairs Coordination Council for Combating Corruption to the Minister of Interior with functions for planning, control, reporting and analysis of anti-corruption activities in the Ministry of Interior. The prevention, prevention, crossing and detection of crimes committed by officers of the Ministry of Interior is carried out by the Department of Homeland Security at the Ministry of Interior. The Ministry of Interior Directorate shall monitor compliance with the regulations and the acts of the Ministry's management, assist the Ministry's structures in their activities to counter and detect violations of the Code of Conduct of the State Officers in the Ministry of Interior, the Code of Conduct of Public Administration employees and to clarify signals of conflict of interest. The Department of the Ministry of Interior controls and supports disciplinary practice in the structures of the Ministry of Interior and disciplinary proceedings in the course of serious disciplinary violations by the employees. From the analysis of corruption in 2019 with the highest corruption risk in the system of the Ministry of Interior are identified the employees of the Road Police. In the structures, prevention measures have been taken to limit the functioning of the factors creating conditions and a favourable environment for the pursuit of corruption. In the field of road traffic control, measures aim to standardise and technologie the activity in order to reduce the role of the human factor. This improves the organisation of work and creates conditions for lowering the levels of corruption pressure. The Automated Information System is established and implemented. Managing the fines imposed on criminal orders and making payments on them via the Internet, SMS and WAP. There is an Automated Information System..Administrative Penal Activity..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In the structures of the Road Police. POS terminal devices are installed to pay the fines under the Road Traffic Act. These technological improvements limit the possibility of requesting or accepting bribes by citizens against covering up a violation committed by them under the Road Traffic Act. The control activity of the employees of the Road Police is strengthened for unspoken electronic tickets and unpaid fines. Within the framework of Bulgaria's National Programme for Support from the Internal Security Fund " 2014" the Center for Active Monitoring continues to be established in the Ministry of Interior system through which the scope of the checks will be extended. The Security Police Department is on track to synchronize and expand the integrated video surveillance system, with 300 additional police vehicles already being purchased in the exercise of patrol and post activities, which are equipped with video surveillance and control of police action. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In the area of border control, the main anti-corruption measure is monitoring the use of available technical equipment. By using the automatic location tracking system's capabilities, police patrols are monitored daily by maintaining video surveillance in control booths, routes and crossing areas. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In the regional directorates there is systematic control of the prevention of illegal practices against citizens from other countries in detention...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u65	Thank you, Mr. Minister, you can finish in the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u66	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u67	Here you are, Mr. Malinov, you have the floor for two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u68	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. and Mrs. Ministers, honourable colleagues! The specific questions, Mr. Minister. Mr. Minister, you have made an excellent point in terms of legislative and regulatory matters. However, you are aware that between legislative and regulatory activities and its implementation, enforcement controls have significant deficiencies. My question is that way. We know how the police are selected, we know the content, the exams, and so on. Where the thread breaks, it's after. These newly appointed police officers, after a certain time, have their own leadership, which is at a lower level, at a higher level, department commanders, heads of regional police stations, do they at that time understand what this is about?! The fact that there is an Advisory Council for the Fight against Corruption at the Ministry, I think it has been formulated, it must be wonderful, but in small and larger towns, do people know it? I'm sure they don't know that. So great is the activities of the Internal Security Directorate at least at this stage, only it must be multiplied and have an effect from top to bottom! Because corruption is a scourge, it is a scourge for the whole society, and the society is my second question, and I will give you a concrete example of it is extremely sensitive when law enforcement and law enforcement authorities are considered above the Law that it does not apply to them. Cops interpret, not enforce the Law, and this is the initial stage and element of corruption. That's the direction to go. There's no country that's ever fought this thing. We are fully aware of both you and I and those sitting in this room, but this thing must be reduced to zero as an activity, because the most sensitive population is when law enforcement authorities allow themselves to break the law. Then the pain of this thing is extremely great. I'll give you one simple example. I don't want to go into detail, I can give you signals, and I will, we have a pretty big list of these activities. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] First, frankly, the heads of the district police department are responsible for their employees' activities. Second, cops shouldn't be above the law. The simplest example is: go now when you leave, to the nearest district police station, stand in the parking lot and you will see the available cars...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u69	Thank you, dear Mr. Malinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u70	...police, gendarmes, fire alarms and so on, stickers that are in violation of the Law for which there is a warrant, but no one controls it. You can easily see it in the parking lot of the first precinct and it irritates people.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u71	Thank you, dear Mr. Malinov, you have already asked the questions. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to answer these supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u72	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Malinov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, honourable Members! You're absolutely right that policemen should apply the law, shouldn't interpret it, it's the work of other institutions. In summary, I will say, as I failed to complete the report, that the policy of the Ministry is indeed about technologies of all processes that exclude the subjective factor, to exclude so far a client from a control body. This is the best prevention of corruption practices. On the other hand, good prevention for corrupt practices is also the possibility and awareness of citizens as to whether they have fines, how certain administrative services are carried out, within what time limits and control of the performance of the services themselves. In this regard, I would like to assure you that much has been done. Already a large part of the composition of the Ministry of Interior, which works precisely in these risky positions, work in terms of video surveillance, sound recording of their orders and their actions. This largely excludes both the corrupt element, on the other hand, also proves the unlawful behaviour of offenders. The employees understand very well that this works both ways. With regard to the frequent cases in the last six months, about which you have said, what I am impressed and observed is how the signals come. It is good that a large part of the signals that are subsequently received by the Homeland Security Office come directly from the superiors of these employees by their direct directors and from the directors of the Regional Directorates. This is a signal, although not 100%, that there is monitoring and monitoring, because at the beginning you said that for all incoming requirements are most general, but the employee's behaviour can now be different when it comes to the particular environment. I agree with you that the heads of medium and high management levels are responsible for the behaviour of their employees and there should be the first signal to come to us. With regard to the stickers, we have spoken to you in the towers of the National Assembly. Stickers are released by some trade union organizations in the Ministry of Interior as an emblem of the trade union organization itself. Naturally, where it is noticed by the authorities of the Road Police and the Security Police, which control traffic on the roads, that they are placed incorrectly on the windows of cars, they are removed. But, again, this is now the decision of every leader. There is such a problem, we know and we are doing everything we can to stop it. By the way, many such private organizations also have such activities.. issue service cards that are very similar but have different abbreviations and content such as the maps of employees of the Ministry of Interior. These are processes that we all know here. A lot of people are trying to speculate on checks with these cards. This, of course, does not affect and should not affect the verification. The authorities of the Ministry of Interior are instructed that the service cards are for certification of a particular position and not for mitigating the fine imposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u73	Thank you. You have the floor for attitude, Mr. Malinov, to express your attitude towards the answers you have received.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u74	To a certain extent, I am pleased with what the Minister said. It is somewhat surprising to me that the signals have been sent by the chiefs of the precinct police department either they are few or they have not reached us, but this is a technical detail. As for the stickers, Mr. Minister, you are the Minister of Interior and you have perhaps the largest number of civil servants that exist in Bulgaria. On your side there is a specialized law and specialized texts and you issue an order. If you want to convince me that you can't issue a warrant, whether police officers, if union officials, if any other organizations stick stickers and make fake stickers, let's say not fake, but similar cards, and you're not able to deal with this issue, it sounds a little frivolous to me. Because if I put a sticker on the windshield, at the first intersection they will stop me and fine me, but when my neighbor has put a sticker on the windshield, he buzzes and violates the Road Traffic Act throughout Sofia, but none of your colleagues will stop him and punish him. So issue an order and let these same heads of regional police stations and specialized services be so kind as to comply with your order and, above all, the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u75	Thank you, dear Mr. Malinov. The next question is from the National Representative Krum Zarkov on the need to provide equipment and improve domestic conditions in the Second Regional Service "Fire safety and protection of the population" in the city of Ruse. You have the floor, dear Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Mrs. Sacheva, Dear Minister! The town of Ruse is one of the few district centers of Bulgaria where the Department of Fire Safety and Population Protection does not have a truck with more than three tons of water capacity. In the opinion of specialists, it is necessary to purchase a larger machine with eight tonnes of capacity due to the presence of large industrial enterprises in the area. May God not have any accident in enterprises such as "Dunarit" or "Orgahim" or "Megahim" or "Megahim" or "Ninahim" or "Ninahim" or "Ubrika" or "Prista Oil" or others. Firefighters there will be having difficulty fulfilling their duties due to lack of proper technique. In addition, the domestic conditions under which employees of the Second District Service work are under any criticism. Recently, the European project has taken action to repair the First District Service and it is imperative that the Ministry look for options to improve the situation in the Second Service, moreover that the new building is still not functional. It is ready, but for some reason you may be able to explain what is not being used. My questions to you are as follows: do you consider it necessary, in view of the needs of fire safety in Ruse, to purchase a truck with more water capacity and if so, when would that be possible? Is repair planned in the Second District Service to improve the conditions under which firefighters work and give long 24-hour shifts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u77	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u78	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Zarkov, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! The territorial structures of the Directorate General for Fire Safety and Population Protection shall have staff and specialized equipment to carry out the tasks assigned to it. In order to integrate into the constantly changing environment, action is actively taken to step up the modernisation of structures, including the replacement of some of the specialized equipment and means. Over the past 15 years, with budget funds and funds from European funds, over 460 fire trucks have been purchased for combined fire extinguishing. With modern cars for fire extinguishing in the middle class there are all district services for fire safety and protection of the population in Ruse district. Middle-class cars have less capacity for extinguishing substances, but have the same basic device and operation with heavy-duty vehicles equipped with modern high-capacity pumps. Undoubtedly, fire extinguishing operations within the industrial sites are related to the provision of large quantities of water, so buildings and open-air technological facilities are constructed for external fire extinguishing water supply from fire hydrants. This is a requirement for all industrial enterprises. Fire extinguishing water supply may be carried out from water sources or from non-fire extinguishing tanks with provided water supply, mobile and stationary motto- and/or electric pumps, as well as suction shafts and fire car filling devices. The General Directorate of Fire Safety and Protection of the Population at the Ministry of Interior continues to work for the delivery and replacement of fire trucks, using all existing funding opportunities, including European funds. Here I will open a clamp to say that from the structures in the Ministry of Interior, the Directorate General may have built the best administrative resource for working on such international programmes, as a result and is the most technically secure. During the purchase of heavy-duty fire trucks, an allocation will be made, including the Regional Directorate for Fire Safety and Protection of the Population. In 2015 according to Operational Programme "Regional Development 2007 " 2013 " Ruse Municipality has prepared an Integrated Plan for Urban Reconstruction and Development, which also includes the building of the Second Regional Service "Fire Safety and Protection of the Population. A technical procurement order for the preparation of an investment project was developed with the premises of the Second Regional Service Fire Safety and the protection of the population. The site is subsequently not included in the main or reserve list of sites for which funding is envisaged under the Operational Programme "Regional Development" due to a reduction of the previously announced budget provided for the municipality of Ruse. The buildings of the Second Regional Service "Fire safety and protection of the non-city" Ruse have been in operation since 1982. In view of this fact, the need for constructive and energy audit and complete renovation of the premises is realized. In this direction, we continue to look for possible options for future funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u79	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Zarkov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u80	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Minister, Dear Minister! I am not a firefighter, but I have come to know the case very carefully, and I can say a lot about the machines bought in the last 15 years about the European projects that have been implemented. But that's not the subject of my question. The theme of my question and I ask you to get out of its purely administrative part you are talking about the implementation of energy efficiency systems and other things on projects, but the truth is: the toilets and showers where these men perform their functions are, as I suppose, not in a Turkish prison. Ruined dressing rooms, duty rooms, beds and springs that have been there since she opened the building in 1982 and have not been changed. Blankets are what I've never seen in my life, and blankets are important, because there's practically no next door except the one that made the firemen themselves. When you do with Euro Project First Service, all employees of it go to Second, there are piled up all these people and are on duty, as you know very well, 24 hours each. I have a wealth of footage, I can show it to you, but it's best, and I'm sure if you go there for a while, you won't leave this office before you order some very easy things or at least give them the opportunity to do some things themselves. You should not wait for a European project, it is simply unbearable. I tell you it, I come from there, on the spot. The most impressive thing is that these people, these men in this environment, they used to say to me, "Zarkov, don't look at us here, we'll be fine, but we need a truck." We need this 8-ton truck. "They had a previous one that was broken, it wasn't made in time, maybe it couldn't be used anymore, but the only thing they cared about in this environment was the technique to be able to perform their duties. These men deserve respect. I can't invite you on their behalf, but once again I say.... I am sure that if you pass for just a second, not administratively to tell you what things are, but to see them with their own eyes, they will tell you how relatively little money can do things, not to be perfect, but at least to be habitable. And lastly: ready, brand new building cannot be used, made nice, at least from the outside it looks like I haven't been inside yet, can't be used due to any administrative obstacles, we need to see what they are. I will help with what we can remove them, especially if they include other countries, as the project, as far as I know, is joint with Romania. Thank you for your attention and I really hope not just an administrative understanding on this matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u81	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Mr. Minister, would you like a duplicate? Yeah, well, you're already planning. So it makes sense, Mr. Zarkov. Thank you for participating in the parliamentary control, Mr. Minister. We continue with Ms. Denitsa Sacheva, Minister of Labour and Social Policy. He'll answer two questions. The first one is from the MPs Georgi Gokov, Christian Vigenin and Vesela Lecheva on the policy of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy regarding the Law on Social Services. You have the floor, dear Mr. Gokov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u82	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable Members of the House! Dear Minister, our question is about the policy of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy regarding social services and, more precisely, the whole situation surrounding the Social Services Act. The chronology we all know, but I'll say a few words. The Social Services Act was passed after a broad discussion and by consensus in parliament, but subsequently caused serious public discontent and practically divided our society into two separates for the Law and against it. Parts of this law created a lot of tension in Bulgarian society, many worries and fears in families. Many protests related to these fears were organized. The postponement of the entry into force of this Act of 1 July 2020 was almost unanimous, although the motives of the parliamentary groups that supported this postponement were fundamentally different. The aim, however, was to give additional time to conduct discussions to clarify the true nature of the Law and, in parallel, to all citizens and organisations to give concrete proposals for changes. As a consequence of this tension in society and in response to numerous public statements that some of the texts sound unconstitutional, the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce (BSP) addressed the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria with a request to rule whether there are texts in the Law that contradict the Constitution or not, because this is the rule of law in the state and in the hope that by the ruling of the Constitutional Court on the subject will stop the disputes whether the Law is contrary to the Constitution or not. Constitutional Case No 3/2020, this year, Judge Philip Dimitrov was appointed rapporteur. In addition, from the BSP parliamentary group with the Vice-President of the National Assembly, Christian Vigenin, we organized a very serious and fruitful discussion at which all parties were discussed about the Law and against the Law. You attended part of this meeting and you know what this is about. You and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy assured the Bulgarian public that regardless of the difficult situation you will continue to seek balanced solutions. At the same time, the epidemic has emerged, a state of emergency has been imposed, restrictive measures and this has put into difficulty all public discussions under the Law. The inability to fully develop the activities of promoting the Law continues to this day and the fears of society have not been overcome. I would definitely say: the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy did not meet the expectations for adequate action during the delayed entry into force of the Law and in the context of this for calming society. Madam Minister, July 1st, the question is, what are we doing in this situation? The question to you is: what is the attitude of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and of the Government regarding the Law on Social Services and its entry into force? How do you intend to continue working on the opinions and questions raised in the discussions held, in the opinions sent by citizens and organisations? How do you treat a new possible delay? Do you plan to propose changes to the Law before the expiry of the period with which its entry into force was postponed, even though it is unimaginably close, or are you planning to make any changes after its entry into force or are you not providing for any changes at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u83	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Dear Mrs. Sacheva, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u84	Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Gokov, the Social Services Act began its development in the period 2013 - 2014 conceptually. In 2016, a working group was established for the first time in order for it to be developed. And I recall, as you said in your question, that it was adopted by consensus by the National Assembly on 7 March 2019. I say this because it is seven years in which the concept of this law is discussed, the need for it, the need for it to introduce new legislation in terms of efficiency, organisation, funding opportunities. Let us note that this law allows for better planning of social services, quality of social services, standards of pay for employees who carry out precisely these activities related to social services. This, I think, is extremely necessary to note, given the fact that this law is constantly being discussed, and I think that seven years of discussions and participation in the working group of extremely broad representation of all state institutions, representatives of the National Association of Municipalities, the Ombudsman's administration, social partners, academic community, non-governmental organizations, civic initiatives, as well as you have listed in your question, so many round tables and discussions have already been made, in this sense I could not agree with you that we have not met the expectations for discussion, because perhaps this is one of the laws that is widely discussed in the public. What has come out and come out clearly from the point of view of the various fears that you are talking about concerns matter related to the Child Protection Act and the matter relating to the Family Code. In this sense, the opinion of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is supporting the Social Services Act. We expect the Social Services Act to enter into force from 1 July, we do not intend to propose changes to it, moreover, that a law that has not entered into force could hardly be changed. And what I would like to inform you is that, at the last government meeting, the government approved the opinion of the Council of Ministers on Constitutional Affairs No 3/2020, formed at the request of 54 Members of Parliament, saying that those of the importers of the request and their disputes of the Law on Social Services in general, as contrary to the Constitution, were disproved as unproven and unfounded. At this stage, our expectations are that the Social Services Act will enter into force from 1 July, we will have the opportunity to develop the legislative framework and continue to maintain our opinion that a broad debate on family policy and on changes to the Child Protection Act and the Family Code is needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u85	Thank you, dear Minister. Two questions, Mr. Gokov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, ministers, honourable Members of the House! Madam Minister, first of all, let's get one thing straight before I start asking questions. Consequentially in the first vote, between the first and second votes, there were proposals, including our group, which we have not defended, of course, for explainable reasons. I'm not going back. And the other clarification I know about what you've been saying for seven years now. In my opinion, it is not even seven years, but it is 10 years, and there is more talk about social services, there in some chronographs it said that it should be ready for 2017, but this only shows how the parliament for 10 years has been attested for its work, of course, cannot make a single law to be adopted by the whole society. But now the question is another: what do we do because it is coming into effect? I will now quote something of yours: decisions in social policy should bring people closer, not divide them. So, Mrs. Minister, you have argued that the Social Services Act should be postponed, by the way, the Ministry has agreed to the postponement. By the way, this law is the first hot potato you inherited from the previous minister in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Again, one more word of yours: delaying will give time to enter into conversation mode about the essence of this law. So have you entered into a conversation mode, Madam Minister, how many conversations did you have, not in general and not in the media, but with stakeholders? Were you able to bring people closer to the Social Services Act? It is tempting to ask what we are doing from now on with the Social Services Act, but this is a matter that Parliament, the National Assembly, must decide. But I can ask you your opinion on the matter. Other questions arise. How far have you reached with the drafting of the legislation required for the Social Services Act? What do we do when the Social Services Act enters into force and then the ruling of the Constitutional Court with something different? Will you insist on entering the Chamber the two bills that have been submitted to the National Assembly on the occasion of the Social Services Act and concerning its postponement or cancellation, which passed the first vote through the Labour and Social Policy Committee, or the entire ruling majority... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Yes, I'm done, Mr. Chairman. ...doing so, apologize for the expression of distractions, will we miss this moment for another discussion in Parliament? You said you wouldn't make any changes to this law because it didn't come into force. What about the others? Since you said he was concerned, many of the protests were provoked by other laws? The problem is entirely in the hands of the government, you will have to take responsibility for its entry into force, its new delay or its cancellation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u87	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. You have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u88	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, I think I have made clear the opinion of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in my reply just now. We maintain the entry of the Law into force from 1 July and work in the institutional working group on the development of regulations, namely Regulation on social services planning, Rules on the implementation of the Law on social services, Regulation on the quality of social services, Proposal for a Draft Rules of Procedure of the Agency for Quality of Social Services, Ordinance on the standards for paying the labour of employees engaged in social services activities financed by the state budget. With regard to the discussions, you know that two such discussions have been held. The first was in Stara Zagora on 30 January 2020, the next was on 25 February in Burgas. Both were public and were attended by representatives of all interested parties. Before that, before the New Year, a big discussion was held in the building of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, and our representatives participated in other discussions that were organised in parliamentary committees here in the National Assembly, as well as in the organized discussion by your parliamentary group. As for what happened during the emergency situation, I think that what happened during the emergency situation best proves the need to regulate the quality of social services. And I would like to point out that, at the time when we are talking about social services, we are talking about the following social services: homes for adults with mental disabilities, persons with mental disabilities, persons with physical disabilities, persons with sensory disorders, adults with dementia, day centres for children and young people with disabilities, centres for social rehabilitation and integration, centres for social rehabilitation and baby support, centers for public support, centers for working with children on the street, day centres for old people, observed housing, temporary housing, protected housing, centers for family-type accommodation for children and young people with disabilities and those with the need of constant medical care. We are talking about 36,000 people currently using social services, and the responsibility that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy bears is that they do not remain in a situation of legal vacuum and that we organise for them the necessary high quality of social services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u89	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Sacheva, ministers, ladies and gentlemen! We cannot be satisfied with what we have heard, Mrs. Sacheva, as I believe that both Parliament and citizens have been misled by your conduct as Minister in relation to this law. At the end of last year, as pointed out by Mr. Gokov, the Law was postponed by six months, but with the expectation that for these six months the opportunities for amendments to the Law will be sought to allow both parties to recognize at least elements of their positions taken into account. Instead, you have undertaken a policy of facts done, you have used these months to do nothing about the contents of the Law, you have tried to explain to us that there is actually no problem with it, as a result of which, in recent weeks, protests have started again, tomorrow also such a big protest and this policy of facts done demonstrates a management stubbornness which, from my point of view, is incomprehensible, given that we could all find these solutions together. And it is not true that everything that was discussed at these roundtables is not known in Stara Zagora and Burgas who was involved, my information is that above all the supporters were invited to the relevant bill, but nevertheless you participated in other discussions and some of the concerns of the people who are against the entry of the Law in this form are related to things that are precisely in this law. I will not comment here on the caring policy for the children. This is a topic which is definitely subject to a broader review. Just because something was done 15 or 10 or 7 years ago doesn't mean it has to stay the same now. The world is changing, our society is changing. Personally, I definitely think that caring for children needs a more comprehensive examination. We can't do it right now, but we have to do it. With regard to the law itself, I believe that there are at least a few elements that, without creating a problem for the functioning of the Law, can be done. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I literally need 10 seconds, Mr. Chairman. They are related to the role of private service providers; their licensing; the fears that this could become a business that in the years will become another channel for the accuracy of budget resources; a strengthening of control over these providers. Several such things, which are also problematic for us. On the one hand, we want the Law to enter into force, but not without these changes, so the BSP parliamentary group is working on some such changes, which we will be ready to comment on and submit eventually next week, and with an adequate support from the majority, we can calm people down, accept these changes. And from then on to start a more systematic work on the other round of problems that you yourself talked about being put by people, and probably need a new review. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u91	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. We continue with Minister Taneva. Minister Taneva is here to inform us you have the floor, Madame Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I have asked to take account of and give information on the political declaration made by Mrs Cornelia Ninova concerning Decision No 7606 of 17 June 2020 by the Supreme Administrative Court, V compartment. Prime Minister Boyko Borisov was called to answer questions about the case. Prime Minister Boyko Borisov has liberated all persons from the Director of the Regional Food Safety Directorate.. Yambol, to the Minister at the moment when they were responsible for the case. That is why I will present up-to-date information as a minister in whose portfolio is the relevant case and case. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, in order not to manipulate data and to use it for political debate, from which sectoral damage can always result, I mean and explain the judgment issued No 1706. First, the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency will implement the judgment without any comment, but on the occasion of the previous comment, I will give the following explanations. In the first place, the data in the Animal Laboratory Research Protocol does not reveal the number of all animals tested from the cashier's premises.. This is the establishment of the cashier Annie Petrova. In order to assess the quantitative ratio between infected and healthy animals, which will determine on its part the immediate risk of the disease after only two sheep have identified the presence of the disease. That is to say, the court in its reasoning clearly accepts that there are two sheep with the disease of small ruminants. Next quote: "Last place, although the norm under art. 138, para. 2 in relation to Art. 138, para. 1, t. 2 of the Animal Health Act is of bound competence and the body has no other lawful decision, in any case the power may and should be exercised by the Director of the Regional Directorate for Food Safety.. Yambol only if there is in this case undisputed evidence of the existence of gross infringements of the requirements of this law or regulations for its application. By Order No RD 11-1349 of 18 July 2018, the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency has announced a secondary outbreak of small ruminants disease in an establishment with registration No 8720-0355 and is ordered for humane killing and disposal of all small ruminants in the affected establishment. That order is not the subject of the judgment and it remains in force to date. The Court considers that this does not exempt the Director of the ODBH from the collection of undisputed evidence in the proceedings for the issue of the contested order and from his own judgment a statement of the factual circumstances to justify the immediate danger to human and animal health, within the meaning of the legal basis laid down in the contested order under art. 138, para. 2 in relation to para. 1, t. Two on the ZBMD. The current composition of the SAC, V compartment, finds that the factual basis for issuing Order No. JA-3-702 of 10 October 2018 to the Director of the ODBH, Yambol, that is the difference, was not available and the decision repealed it. That order said it should be erased. Bulgarian Food Safety Agency will implement the judgment, this site will not be deleted. It will be re-inserted with the relevant number of small ruminants and will comply with the decision, but the order to declare a secondary outbreak of the Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency remains in force and is not subject to this Decision and the reasons of the V compartment of this Chamber of the Court are clearly recognised by the infected two animals.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u93	Those two.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u94	Yeah, that's right. As much as they're shown in the samples. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Apart from that, it is from the European Union Reference Laboratory for the Plague of Small ruminants, in which and on the basis of which research remains and...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u95	Mr. Gokov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u96	...the time since 2018, confirm the outbreak of small ruminants plague where it is registered. The measures for the eradication of the disease, when taken in 2018, are implemented by: the Animal Health Act; Council Directive 92/119/EC, Chapter XIV, p. 7 of the OIE Terrestrial Animal Health Code, Commission Implementing Decision (EU) 2018/954 laying down certain protective measures to prevent the spread of small ruminants plague in the Republic of Bulgaria. With regard to the funds. In 2018, the European Union has supported us with 417 750 euros, which have been received by the Food Agency for the costs of the eradication of identified outbreaks and other activities. The expenditure for the country in 2018 was nearly two and a half million, including the compensation paid to farmers whose animals were efthanazed in connection with the outbreaks identified. I would also like to recall some data on all the episodes Bulgaria has encountered in recent years, 2018 is not the only one: 2006, 2008. "Birds', Newcastle disease, 2005th, 2007th, 2008th, 2009; Bluetongue, 2006 and 2014; classical swine fever, 2006th, 2007; African swine fever, I will not quote, from 2018, the first outbreak. These are dangerous infectious diseases and all the measures that have been taken have been in accordance with the existing regulations................................................................................................ The diseases of the years I have quoted and outlined you, you understand that they do not choose either who is in power or who was a minister or who was a prime minister. The years in which different epidemics erupt, the methods of dealing with them are the same because they are based on common European, including global legislation on animal health and are the same. However, in view of really purely administrative organisational problems with regard to reactions and ways of work at the Food Agency, the relevant changes were made last year and some of the reasons for these changes undoubtedly arose with regard to episotes and dealing with them. At the moment, regardless of the judgment which in practice revokes the order for the deletion of that establishment, they do not call into question the existence of that disease. We will execute the order, the object will be entered with the animals. This order, this judgment, of course, will communicate them to the European Commission, because our country is in the information system of the Commission and the World Organisation for Animal Health with the outbreaks of this disease. This attracts relevant negatives for the sector, we will present the solution. Naturally, if there is a possibility, and if we can prove.. regardless of which sector in livestock farming to be, to have a derogation from the application of stepping outs in the event of such episodes, we would do so. We have tried for African swine fever and you are well aware that we did not receive it precisely because of the risk of spread. That's what I'm done with. I think all the facts have been presented to you in order not to create messages that have nothing to do with facts, reality and legislation. I don't know if there's a procedure, Mr. Chairman, I'm ready to stay in Parliament and answer questions if there are any to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u97	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u98	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u99	Mr. Vigenin's way of handling it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u100	I will not abuse this procedure, Mr. Chairman, but I really don't understand what Mrs. Taneva's coming to parliament is imposing right now. Ms. Nino's declaration clearly stated who we expect to come. Of course, she has the right as Minister to speak. We thank her for reading us much of the judgment, it is clear. However, since the procedure does not allow us to have a conversation, I would like to inform her that after this decision we will resume our parliamentary control on the subject. The fact that people who were directly responsible for these decisions two years ago are no longer in power and are not in their positions does not mean that the crime has not been committed or the wrong decisions have not been taken. They are taken by this cabinet, by this government and in the forthcoming parliamentary control that we are planning, we will have the opportunity to comment on each of the topics that Ms Taneva has raised today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u101	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. You know perfectly well that the provision of art. 65 of our Rules gives Minister Taneva the opportunity to inform us on a topic she considered. She has considered that this is a vicious topic and informs both the MPs and the Bulgarian public on the topic. As for what you just said, to pin a crime committed by the Council of Ministers, I think it's a little far-fetched. Let's leave it to other organs. I'll take that as a lapsus. We continue again with Minister Sacheva. Asked by the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Alexander Siddy about fragmented legislation in social policy. Here you are, Mr. Siddy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Social assistance is an area that increasingly attracts public attention and, respectively, leads to many legislative initiatives in different directions. The current regulations in this direction have become numerous and are often administered by different departments. This creates a lack of a common view of the system of various forms of social assistance and it is virtually impossible to track a person or family how much and what it receives from the state, and even less there is an opportunity to demand counter-socialisation efforts from that person. This, in our opinion, favours social parasitism, and even only the laws in force in this field are disturbing very much "the Social Services Act, the Social Services Act, the Personal Aid Act and so on." Some of them were accepted under street pressure and without clear assessment of their effect, while others openly contain ideologically those contrary to the traditional values of our people. More and more people and public organisations with every reason raise the issue of abolishing certain laws, even those that have not yet entered into force. We therefore ask the following questions: do you believe that fragmented social assistance legislation favours social policy with a clear focus and perspective, as well as an opportunity to monitor its results? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u103	Thank you, dear Mr. Siddy. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u104	Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Siddy, a major priority in the work of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is the creation of conditions and opportunities for social support and the provision of targeted supportive and encouraging measures for people in a difficult life situation and for their families, which, in the context of dynamic macroeconomic environment and regional disproportions, has an important preventive effect on quality of life and social exclusion. I share the position expressed on the fragmentation characteristic of the current legislation in the field of social support and social inclusion, which actually favours the increasing varying pressure for the implementation of regulatory changes. Despite the rise in budgetary resources to secure socio-economic support for those in need, we cannot confirm the efficiency resulting from their receipt. Currently, there is increased public tension, which affects various sectors of social policy, social security, social security rights, social services, disability rights, social assistance. This hinders the implementation of the positive effects of the actions taken by the government in the interests of the people and, at the same time, prevents the successful implementation of reforms in individual sectors in order to achieve the expected efficiency and sustainability in the long term. Obviously, the problem created and escalated discontent among certain public groups for expected structural reform reflects directly on the regulation and subsequent application of insufficiently thought-out approaches, as is the example of the Personal Aid Act, with negative effect and without clear perspective. Fragmentaryness in the social sphere should be overcome, but without testing the smooth functioning of the system. The underlying principles in the context of the European Pillar of Social Rights also require rethinking established practice and applying a new integrated approach to social policy. In this regard, a positive side would be the transition from specialized legal regulation of individual forms of social support for citizens to codifying legislation in a whole based on systemic approach and synergy. This would help optimize the administrative and functional structure of the system, as well as interinstitutional coordination and interaction as an important condition for targeted financial management. Last but not least, it will also allow the application of a differentiated individual approach combined with the complex provision of support, according to the needs of the maximum relief of the administrative burden and without allowing the establishment of permanent dependence and risks for the system financed by the principle of solidarity with public resources. The idea of codifying the matter that regulates public relations in the social protection system is to consolidate the types of social support in relation to people with disabilities and their families, children and the elderly, people in difficulties or at risk and all the people in need. I believe that codification would ensure sustainability of the social system and limit the possibility of conjunctural changes, which in turn would create conditions for consistency of the policy and monitoring of the results. Active discussions are to be held in different formats with stakeholders for expressing positions in all relevant situations and with a view to making rational decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u105	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sacheva. You have the floor for further questions, Mr. Siddy.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u106	Thank you, Madam Minister, for your answer. As a supplementary question in terms of what we have talked about fragmented policy and that there are too many different laws in this system, could you tell me: how is the implementation of the budget in terms of social support means going, do you have such data, and therefore how could it be handled in this area from now on?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u107	Thank you, dear Mr. Siddy. You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Sacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u108	Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Siddy, the social costs are the largest in the state budget and they amount to 31.7% of the total costs, and as a size of the gross domestic product, 11.7%. What I could inform you to date is that, with regard to the Personal Aid Act, there is an estimated shortage of about 100 million. lv. at the end of this year. As regards our plans, which we have proposed to the Ministry of Finance for the medium-term forecast, there is a need for an additional resource of no less than 341 million. lv. We have expressed our concern that, in the absence of political support for urgent legislative changes, the real resource needed from 1 January 2021 under the Personal Aid Act could amount to 1 billion. lv. As regards other social payments and a total of 1 billion. 350 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. are designated for disabled people, 172 million. lv. For children with permanent disabilities, and for children, family aid amounts to 370 million. lv. The next largest cost is 121 million. lv. for heating aid. At this time, all other indicators other than the indicator relating to the Private Aid Act are within the scope of the planned funds. According to the Personal Aid Act and the Personal Assistants, 92 million were planned. lv. and, as I have told you, to date, the estimated estimated estimated deficit by the end of this year amounts to 100 million. lv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u109	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sacheva. In connection with the previous inquiry by letter No 054-00-44 of 19 June 2020, submitted today at 13.02 p.m., there was a request for a debate on questioning, No 054-05-27, of 5 June 2020 and a draft decision on the inquiry by the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Alexander Siddy, to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on fragmented legislation in social policy. The Annex and the Draft Decision have signed 49 MPs and the requirement of art. 105, para. One fifth of the Members of the National Assembly shall make a proposal to hold a debate on the questioning. On the basis of art. 105, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I schedule the debates on the questioning and voting of the draft decision for the next meeting designated for parliamentary control. Mr. Siddy, you are now entitled to the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u110	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. There are indeed tensions in this system and there are too many people who, on the one hand, expect the entry of the Social Services Act, and on the other hand, there are people who oppose different texts of it. As we have spoken so far, there is extremely fragmented legislation in this direction. Therefore, there is no surprise in this case, we are putting forward a proposal for a debate on the question that the chair has already read. I hope at a fruitful debate with which we will be able to reassure people and, accordingly, by decision of the National Assembly, to make those correct decisions that will calm people on the street on both sides of the Social Services Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u111	Thank you, dear Mr. Siddy. With this we have really completed parliamentary control of Mrs. Sacheva. Thank you for your participation. We move on to questions to Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov. Question from MP Dora Yankova about interest-free loans up to BGN 1500 You have the floor, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u112	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister and Mrs. Minister! Mr. Karanikolov, I asked my current question to you on May 20th with one alarm. I visited my electoral district and then I made talks with many people and representatives of banks, and only four banks had the opportunity to conclude contracts so that they could provide interest-free loans up to BGN 1500. My concern was that on the territory of Smolyan region two of the banks were located, and in the other nine municipalities they had no offices. Subsequently, I understand that in this period from one month to the answer, banks are about 12 and two banks have already exhausted their financial resources. What you signed as a Programme for guaranteeing interest-free loans, of course, and with Parliament's sanction in measures to support Bulgarian citizens who are self-employed and who are on leave, was actually launched with a decision of the Council of Ministers on 14 April. Self-insuring and employees in the context of the emergency situation had to have flexible access to these funds. What made me a little angry is that the campaign was very active from the 14th, that it had resources, that it had resources, come on, come on, and really very slowly worked. It may be natural, since they are banks, relations, the Development Bank is precisely in the period when people needed it most, now we are the third month, and the first two months this money was for supporting the family for the first needs when it stopped working. For this reason, I asked the question: how many banks do they provide? How many people have taken advantage of your opinion as Minister: how exactly does this mechanism work?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u113	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u114	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yankova, first of all, I would like to thank you for your concern and for your question. Allow me to provide short information, and then I will also answer the specific questions you have asked. As part of the measures taken by the Council of Ministers to overcome the economic consequences of the spread of COVID-19, Decision No 257 of the Council of Ministers approved a Programme for guaranteeing interest-free loans in the protection of people deprived of opportunities to work because of the pandemic. The budget of this programme is 200 million, with the Bulgarian Development Bank not financing, but guaranteeing our 100% allocated resource, which is provided by the commercial banks and they approve the corresponding loans. Regarding the specific parameters of lending, it should be pointed out that each person who fulfils the conditions is entitled to one interest-free loan under the Programme and a maximum amount of BGN 4500. for all months, 1500 leva. There is no provision for freezing as a condition for granting credits. Credits are up to five years with a minimum of six and not more than 24 months grace period. Persons will be entitled to early repayment of the debt without due fees. 12 commercial banks had applied for participation in the Programme. Currently, there are actually agreements with 11 of them. The total maximum guarantee limit approved by the Bulgarian Development Bank is now just over 140 million. lv. As of mid-June under the Programme for Guarantee of interest-free loans to protect people deprived of the opportunity to work because of the pandemic, the commercial banks guaranteed 8459 credits to individuals worth just over 35 million. As a breakdown, I am only telling you: two thirds of these loan-free applicants are workers and employees on unpaid leave and one third are self-insuring persons. As you know, the situation was extreme. We make decisions about certain measures. They are, of course, subject to time development. You started by saying that the Council of Ministers in April made a decision that increased the capital of the Bulgarian Development Bank. Of course, there are banking procedures.. We had to call a general meeting. You know that the Bulgarian Development Bank is not one hundred per cent state-owned there is a private shareholder of another commercial bank, a general meeting is called, then there is an increase in capital and entry of these capitals. The laws in Bulgaria must be respected, especially for banking systems. It slowed us down. Nevertheless, I believe that the work has been very positive since the beginning of June and people are taking advantage of the data. Moreover, after the commercial banks and the Bulgarian Development Bank looked at where the most serious case cases were, why they refused many people, on Wednesday the Council of Ministers decided on a decision to be published today or Tuesday. With this decision we have increased the circle of people who have the opportunity to apply. So far, it's only been for those who have been paid insurance, and now we've allowed people who haven't been paid, but these insurances have been declared. I assure you, we are continuing our work. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm coming, just one word.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u115	Yeah, yeah, I think it's important.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u116	I follow the National Assembly several times in the Chamber and in control you raise a question: how will the state help the public sector, municipalities and public administrations that have obligations to business and hence provide liquidity in the business? The Bulgarian Development Bank and the factoring to it developed a package. If you wish, in the next parliamentary control I can present it to you. It is aimed precisely at the public sector to ensure liquidity there too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u117	Thank you, dear Mr. Karanikolov. You have the floor for a line, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u118	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, I continue to worry for the following reasons: according to data from the National Statistical Institute from yesterday the self-employed are 823 820. Aside from the sector of Selsko and the holding, which is not within the scope of the support, potential candidates for these funds are 380 thousand. I understand that money also loves silence, and banks love their order, but we have Bulgarian citizens who need it. And here I address you as a business man, part of the cabinet: be a better mediator in the direction of greater publicity and clarity. It is true that this week at the Council of Ministers you have made adjustments, but look, I am meeting with several cases where the Development Bank says: "You don't need to have a bad credit history, you can get funds. In terms of social security contributions. It's a good thing you did what you did as a distinction, so that they could have declared them, not paid them, because they were wandering amongst the institutions. We, as a parliamentary group, had a different view and it would have been much easier in those two months, people who had not worked and who had stopped, especially during the emergency situation, to receive a minimum wage, so that they could easily, more calmly pay their costs. You've decided otherwise. You are now on the move to support the people. Support them, but let the rules be much clearer, be public. Open a phone if you need it or at the Development Bank, for people who have problems. A lot of people are wandering around, moving them from one place to another, and they can't really get that financial resource. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u119	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u120	Thank you. I assure you that we are doing our best to expand the circle of stakeholders as quickly as possible. But once again, I pay attention to the Bulgarian Development Bank does not provide these loans. It does not have this created network, branch base and opportunity at the moment, as it has another profile with its creation. The point is that in the beginning commercial banks had to decide from their boards whether to participate in this package that is being proposed. That's where we waited. Right after that, we started working. We've established the first major weakness. The main problem was that mass return people who have declared what they owe, but did not pay it. We felt that this was not right, and we took immediate action. I think there are open phones and pages to the Bulgarian Development Bank, I will check it further. You can count on us to do it. We continue with the commercial banks to consider further hypotheses and we are open at every moment to react. Here, however, I note that we are also working on other grants. As of today, we started making contracts. That is, both micro and small businesses today will also start to receive funds. I understand. We want it to happen faster, too, but these are budget funds, these are EU funds. However, we must exercise the necessary control, because liquidity is important, but tomorrow they will come from Brussels and others and will ask: "How did you spend the money? " I assure you that at the moment we are even looking at opportunities for further enlargement of citizens, let me call them who still have an opportunity on this credit. Because, as you've seen, from 200 million at the moment, commercial banks have claimed a little over 140 million. So there are 60 million left where we can think buffers, expand the circle of people to whom we can provide funds. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u121	Thank you, dear Minister. Thank you for your participation in today's parliamentary control. Before we move on to the last minister for today, let's do one last disinfect. We move on to the questions to Mrs. Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. The first question is from the MP Dean Stanchev concerning the extension of the period of validity of the annual wine stickers. You have the floor, Mr. Stanchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u122	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, in the past few months Bulgaria and the whole world have faced an unprecedented situation. The war with him was waged with measures that we could not have thought could be applied in the world where we live, the ban on visits to events, closed airports and international borders, blocked villages, neighborhoods and cities. A number of restrictive measures were introduced in Bulgaria to deal with the pandemic during the period March 13th. One of them was the ban on entering or leaving Bansko because of the quarantine. Another such measure was the ban on leaving Sofia for no good reason. The same measures for non-leaving district centres were taken in the rest of the country. During the whole time, the Ministry of Interior and the National Operations Headquarters invited citizens to limit their travels. Dear Minister, in view of the above, my question to you covers the following: is the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works considering extending the period of validity of the annual wine stickers with the period of limitation of movement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u123	Thank you, dear Mr. Stanchev. You have the floor to answer, Mrs Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Stanchev, honourable MPs! The wine charge gives a road vehicle the right to use for a certain period of time the Republican road network. According to art. 10a of the Roads Act, wine charges are differentiated depending on the period for which the wine fee has been paid. According to the Regulation on conditions, arrangements and rules for the construction and operation of a mixed charging system for different categories of road vehicles based on time and distance travelled, wine charges are collected by the Road Infrastructure Agency, adopted by Decree No 219 of the Council of Ministers of 2008 in accordance with the fee tariff, according to their period of validity, annual bill of lading, monthly bill of lading, weekly bill of lading with validity of seven calendar days, and weekend payment with validity of 12:00 on Friday to 23.59 on Sunday of that week. The current legislation does not regulate the possibility of changing the period of validity of the electronic tart issued. This is caused by the type of road toll to be paid. Unlike the other road toll charge, here the use of the paid road network is not linked to the number of crossings and miles travelled. By paying a fee on a time basis, the owner of the road vehicle is entitled to use the paid road network for a certain period of time, regardless of the number of crossings and the mileage travelled. In this sense, even if the road vehicle does not move on the paid road network at a certain time interval during the period of validity of the screw, this does not constitute a reason for its extension. For this reason no regulatory possibility is provided and the electronic toll system does not allow for a change in the period of validity of an electronic tart already issued. Road charges, such as electronic wine and tolls, are state fees and are also subject to payment in a state of emergency. No text of the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March and subsequently extended until 13 May 2020, exempts consumers from the payment of a state fee such as the fee for electronic wine. It should be borne in mind that, despite the emergency situation, travel to work, supply of medicines, care for sick people, care for loved ones in small towns was not hindered. Only occasional travels for tourism, social contacts or sports were limited for which consumers usually buy travel rights on a time basis for a shorter period. Provided that there were no full restrictions on travel on the Republican road network, there is no applicable measure which does not discriminate between one group of users and another, namely those using road infrastructure on a toll basis, with those on a toll basis. In view of what I have said so far, we have no legal grounds for extending the period of validity of electronic wineries based on the emergency situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u125	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. Mr. Stanchev, you don't want a line, so there won't be a back. We move on to the last question by the MPs Ivan Chenchev and Dimitar Danchev about the promised soundproofing wall in the village of Churek, Elin Pelin municipality. I'm not sure of the emphasis. Now you will tell us how it is, Mr. Danchev, and we will all learn it. Here you go, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The accent is Chu-rek. My question is very brief, Madam Minister. In fact, it is now coming for the third time from the stands of the National Assembly within this Parliament. Twice the question has been asked by my colleague Mr. Ivan Chenchev. As early as 2018, you, in response to his question, said there was indeed a problem with the noise of the highway in the village of Churek. Then you promised that a strategic map for noise around the village and in other regions will be made and based on this plan the Road Infrastructure Agency will provide funding and will start building this soundproofing wall. Almost two years since you became Minister on this issue, unfortunately, there is no movement and no wall near the village of Churek yet. In this regard, I ask you to answer: when will the soundproofing wall finally be built and what is happening around the construction that you promised almost two years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u127	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. You have the floor to answer, Mrs Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u128	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Danchev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yes, as I informed in the previous reply of July last year, depending on the budgetary opportunities, from 2020 it will be a step-by-step assignment and development of technical projects for the sites that are included in the action plan to the updated strategic noise map, and then actions will be taken to secure and build noise protection facilities. In this regard, the Road Infrastructure Agency published a public procurement notice with subject "Development of Acoustic and constructive projects for construction of noise protection facilities, for residential areas with an established overcrowded noise level near road sections of the Republican network with traffic of more than 3 million. motor vehicles per year, divided into four separate positions, with the section of the motorway "Hemus" in the area of the village of Churek is included in separate heading No 4, namely: the motorway "Hemus" in a section of km 24+916 to km 26+559, the residential territory of the village of Churek, Elin Pelin municipality, Sofia district. The other objects are as follows: Special position No 1: Highway "Trakiya" is a residential territory of the village of Mirovo, municipality of Ihtiman, district of Sofiyska; Special position No. 2: Highway "Struma" - Residential territory of the village of Belo pole, Blagoevgrad Municipality; · Position No 3: Motorway "Struma" - Residential territory of Sq. Church, Pernik. The deadline for receipt of tenders is 10 August 2020, the value of the contract for separate position No 4 is BGN 32 950. excluding VAT, which includes design activities and the exercise of copyright supervision during construction. The time for designing the project is 60 calendar days as a notice after conclusion of a contract with the selected contractor. The investment process also provides that an expert technical and economic board will be held, that development will be adopted, that the project proposal will be agreed with the Ministry of Environment and Water and the Ministry of Health, and that these procedures also require a certain additional time resource. An important element of the realization of the site for the construction of this noise protection facility on the territory of the village of Churek is the provision of, of course, the necessary financial resources after the procedures for designing, accepting and issuing a building permit. The value will become clear after the development of the project and the Ministry and Agency road infrastructure will continue their active actions for financial provision of this site as well as other objects with abnormal noise in the settlements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u129	Thank you, Mrs Avramova. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'm sure you can't be satisfied with the answer you've heard. In fact, we have heard from Mrs Avramova that this is the third time that some planning is envisaged. First, the noise measured it took about a year and a half, then another year to draw up a sound map plan, to find that really yes, once again it was confirmed that there was noise. Now we hear that the team has been assigned and the team or group is about to be selected, which will finally work out the project itself, which then is not known when and for how much money will ever be built this noisy wall around the highway I note, Madam Minister, that last night I listened to your participation in a TV show, where you quickly told how several hundred million leva were spent in just about a year for the construction of the highway. Up until a few days ago, the tunnel was literally being repaired. Well, if you'd cared a little bit about the people who have lived for years with the noise on the side of the Hemus highway in Churek, you'd probably include this soundproofing wall to the amount necessary for the construction of a Vitynia tunnel, which is only a kilometer or two up that road section. Really strangely, some questions are moving slowly, and extremely elementary as technical implementation in the Road Infrastructure Agency and in your ministry at all. Some issues are given priority, and some issues that affect the problems of living people who are forced to do so again, I say that daily they should tolerate the harsh noise from the highway, because there is indeed a lot of traffic there. Along with the construction of a tunnel, Vitynya and Vitynya received huge traffic jams in this section, which further increased not only the noise, but also the pollution of the air. However, we have now learned from you that in two years as a minister you have managed to provide 30 or three thousand leva, if I have correctly memorized the figure in order to carry out a design for this soundproofing wall, then there will be another n number of studies, conclusions of a bunch of other institutions, and eventually it may come to the physical building of the wall. It's really frustrating, and I can't say thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u131	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u132	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Danchev, Dear Members of the National Assembly! I will in no way oppose the construction of highways, speed roads, noise protection facilities and any other activities that the Road Infrastructure Agency is building and building. Of course, it is important that the health of people who live in many settlements and suffer from the noise of passing cars. Of course, these facilities must be built and I will in no way oppose the construction that you referred to in my commentary yesterday, the construction of a highway that is also about people's health and life. Because travelers in Northern Bulgaria know how different it is both as a movement, as a passage, and as a safety passage to Northern Bulgaria and South Bulgaria. Yeah, there's prioritization. Indeed, the people of the village of Churek had to hear that design was being commissioned, that this project would be made and it would be implemented, as well as in many other places in Bulgaria, where necessary, but we should not in any way oppose the various activities that are priority for the Agency, for the Ministry and for the Government, because the good and well-maintained roads also mean health and life for the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-19.u133	Thank you, dear Minister. That concludes today's parliamentary control. Thank you for the participation of both you and your fellow Members. The next regular meeting will be on 24 June 2020, Wednesday, at 9.00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
