ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u1	Hello, colleagues who are remotely involved in the meeting! Anna Alexandrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u2	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u3	Vejdi Rashidov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u4	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u5	Georgi Kolev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u6	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u7	Ivelina Vassileva?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u8	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u9	Konstantin Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u10	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u11	Plamen Nunev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u12	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u13	Six voted online. They voted 118 MPs in the House and 6 MPs online The number of MPs required to take a decision in the Chamber shall be 63. There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that the following additional item be included in the weekly work programme of the National Assembly. The draft decision on the annulment of the Decision establishing a Temporary Commission to examine the Draft Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, adopted by the National Assembly on 2 October 2020. Importer Daniela Daritkova and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 26 November 2020, and I propose to be the first item in the Programme for today. Please vote. Mrs. Alexandrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u14	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u15	Mr. Rashidov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u16	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u17	Mr. Kolev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u18	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u19	Mrs. Vassileva?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u20	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u21	Mr. Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u22	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u23	Mr. Nunev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u24	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u25	There are 114 MPs and 6 MPs online. Vote 120 MPs: for 119, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Moving on to point one: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO REPEAT THE DECISION ESTABLISHING A TEMPORARY COMMISSION FOR THE INVESTIGATION OF A PROJECT FOR THE CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA, AS REFERRED TO BY THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION OF 2 OCTOBER 2020 I'll read to you: Project! DECISION repealing the Decision establishing a Temporary Commission to examine the Draft Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria adopted by the National Assembly on 2 October 2020. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and § 2 of the Additional Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Revocation of the Decision establishing a Temporary Commission for the Study of the Draft Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria adopted by the National Assembly on 2 October 2020. Importer Daniela Daritkova and a group of Members of the National Assembly. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the draft decision repealing the Decision establishing a Temporary Commission to examine the Draft Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria adopted by the National Assembly on 2 October 2020. Mrs. Alexandrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u26	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u27	Mr. Rashidov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u28	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u29	Mr. Kolev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u30	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u31	Mrs. Vassileva?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u32	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u33	Mr. Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u34	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u35	Mr. Nunev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u36	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u37	They voted in this House 106 MPs plus 6 online " 112" total. They voted 111 MPs: 111, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. My colleagues, I'm sorry, I missed the announcements for today. Messages: On the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I inform the Members of the National Assembly that on 26 November 2020 a Decree No 247 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria was received under art. 101 of the Constitution by which the Law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act adopted by the National Assembly on 19 November 2020 is returned for a new discussion. It is entrusted to the lead Committee on Budget and Finance to report to the MPs the President's decree and the reasons for it. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of an airplane with its crew of the members of the Swiss Air Force. The permit shall be valid for passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria on a flight from the United Arab Emirates route, Switzerland, without landing on the Bulgarian territory, from 1 to 4 December 2020, including for the purpose of transporting a delegation led by the President of Switzerland. The order issued is within the competence of the Minister of Defence, concerning the assessment of the military parameters of the country's transition to defence. On export control issues and in accordance with international sanctions regimes mandatory for the Republic of Bulgaria, the country's air space clearance should be granted to the State concerned following a positive opinion from the competent state authorities in these areas, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The notification was received on 25 November 2020 with entry No 003-09-98 and was submitted to the Defence Committee. Let's continue with: THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR MARITIME SPACES, THE INTERNAL WATERWAYS AND THE PORTS OF BULGARIA Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u38	Madam President, yesterday we reached § 14, which was adopted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u39	Statements? I can't see. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote for paragraphs 15, 16, 17 and 18. Mrs. Alexandrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u40	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u41	Mr. Rashidov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u42	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u43	Mr. Kolev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u44	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u45	Mrs. Vassileva?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u46	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u47	Mr. Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u48	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u49	Mr. Nunev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u50	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u51	The votes from the Chamber are 138 MPs and 6 online. s become 144: for 104, not against, abstention 40. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u52	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 19: .....19......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 112 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinei 1 and 2 are amended as follows: (1) The territory and infrastructure of the ports under art. 107 " 109', with the exception of maritime access infrastructure or inland waterways, may be owned by the State, municipalities, natural and legal persons. The inland waterway access infrastructure is public government property, respectively. (2) Specialized port sites may be owned by the State, the municipalities, natural and legal persons. 2. In para. 3 After the words the owners of the... shall be added the territory and the infrastructure of the............................................................ and after the words...................................................................................................................................................................................... 1 and "suppliers" shall be added. 3. A new para is being created. 5. The provisions of art. 5 (5) For the procedure for the entry of specialized port sites shall apply respectively. 92, para. 6................................................ 4. Previously on AMC's... 5 and 6 become respectively. 6 and 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u53	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of Paragraph 19 of the Commission Report. Mrs. Alexandrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u54	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u55	Mr. Rashidov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u56	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u57	Mr. Kolev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u58	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u59	Mrs. Vassileva?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u60	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u61	Mr. Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u62	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u63	Mr. Nunev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u64	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u65	The votes from the House are 149 MPs and 6 online.. become 155: for 112, against 1, abstention 42. The motion is accepted. Mr. Letifov, the Minister of Environment and Water wants to give information, so I'm going to ask you to interrupt the review of the Law. We'll be right back. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I know the procedure by which I want the word is a very rarely used form...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u67	No, no, no!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u68	...but it's permissible and applicable. I am doing this precisely because circumstances are of a force majeure nature. We'll talk about the waters with their real names. In advance, I want to tell you that I come with good intentions, I do not intend to confront, either individually with one of you, or politically. This is my personal statement and I do not engage any political power. I start with Burgas and Dam Kamchia. There is a water treatment plant at the dam that cleans the water for Varna and Burgas through a water supply to Kitka, total of 110 km to Varna and 100 km to Burgas, without any pump, water I would like to inform you that since May, in case it continues to rain, the city of Burgas and the South Black Sea coast will become twice as attractive a tourist destination as the famous pomorie mud, lye, residents and guests, if there is, will also try the unknown kamchi mud from this moment. We'll put rafts in the dam, we'll pour water, we'll clean and send to Burgas. Why? Since January this year, the MoEW has written 10 times reports, schedules, in which 10 times we send information to the Council of Ministers. We've made two advisory water councils, they've all made a unanimous decision. In case there is a third year of drought, consumption is in standard sizes and volumes, the city of Burgas will be left without water for drinking and domestic water supply. As a result of these 20 letters, two tips, dozens of interviews, shows, publications, nothing. Zero! There's no nail stuck. If there is, show it to me, I'll pull it out myself, a meter pipeline, a generated document of our calls all summer to begin while it's warm. There is an opportunity to dig, to pour, to build a channel easily. There's time, technological feasibility. You didn't do anything. Silence. Gentlemen, this is the scheme that we have given September month to all district governors with all reductions. [[shows diagram]] May the month there is no water if it comes a little, it will last until June, if it comes a little... it will last until September. It hasn't rained! This scheme has it all, I've sent it off the record since September every month, and I've been writing reports every month since January. District guides, mayors, party elite no one! This problem doesn't exist. The only one who's ever taken a stand was Valeri Simeonov. What can he do? [[Noise, lines.]] Just him, but there's nothing he can do. I've been waiting all summer for a PR guy to decide when it's gonna be the right time for a first crack. You never made up your mind. We've been going to the dam three times since May for a first crack, for a first run. Nothing! Bulgaria is managed by the piari. The Ministry of Agriculture and MRDP are fighting each other. The farmers don't give out their dam, so they can declare a public procurement, the MRDP can't start because the farmers don't give them the paperwork. We have a vote by the Council of Ministers two months ago, signed by the Prime Minister, voted by all ministers, some cabinet chief in Agriculture and Deputy Minister do not give the documents to start construction. They're censoring the Prime Minister. There's not a meter of pipe dug. They're on my head. Perhaps it's a consolation that the Prime Minister's too. We will allow the South Black Sea coast to become a bet of corporate interest who owns the dam, who sells a company and acquires money. Some don't give it to each other. The others can't start. Burgas is approaching and in six months it will be in a water crisis. The only interest of the Moss. The mayor of Burgas occupies a special place in the whole situation, especially the place of a spectator. At the MoEW, we have a special name for him, I won't say it. All our hydrologists, engineers, experts, 10 months we write schedules, reports, we meet, we calculate dry year, wet year, medium year, 50 years ago, with graphs. [[(Noise, banging on banks, yelling from GERB and OP:]] Please be quiet! They gave a brilliant decision.. The mayor became... You will be a mayor, who in five months will not have water and give not one, but two genius solutions: "We will build a new dam. Second solution: We will set up a water desalination station. Where will this new dam be in five months, when did they build it? Let's let him work. We must first leave the European Union and then. The second genius solution is a desalination plant. But on which plot, but at which discharge, but on which accession? But it's bought, it's made, it's built! Say, let's put it on the schedule, feed the city. No station, factory should, and water would be awfully expensive. I am sure that no one in this hall believes that in five months in Bulgaria, there will be a new dam and a treatment plant in Burgas. One table, 10 reports, 10 graphics, two consultative councils. It's going to happen, Pernik-2. I'll explain the model in Pernik because he's in pain vicious. I don't play political. In Pernik, political appointments drained the water that was in the dam to make one repair, covered it up before the elections because of the political moment and brought all the faults of the MOEW. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Studena Dam has always been full since it was built. At the moment the renovation lasts longer than the construction of the dam, and it runs more than before. I explain the dam is at MRRB, the wall, the facilities, the cost meters, the pipelines, the treatment plant is the whole system of MRRB. MOEWs only run schedules, others run them. But they deliberately drained it for repairs, made it thinner, didn't use divers, didn't they?.....................! But they put some plastic, vinyl on the wall, it's leaking more than before.! The dam is renovated twice as long as the entire dam was built, and it's still being repaired. But they'd take out water meters, they'd take them down and water them all they wanted, but 400,000 cc's of ecological drains would put them in the treatment plant and sell them to people to hide them all clean as a tear. And the universal apology: "This is a political solution. " There's an election coming. We know it's illegal, we know it's empty, we'll keep quiet, then we'll find guilty. Oh, well, they lost them. A whole town knows how they drained their dam, knows that they lied to them and then the state made a feat with this pipe, but they drank two months of water from Sofia and cursed power because we lied to them before. Does it look like Burgas to you? After the elections the mayor and the district covered themselves, the state built a plumbing, the Perniks used it for not two months and the case was closed. However, water theft continued out of control. Uncontrollable! What's my problem? We've got 52 nationally significant properties. We've got dams. We've got public dams. That's the national interest. Once the elections start, everyone starts joining, everyone starts using political pressure, everyone starts ruining them. I'm setting an example again with Studena, with the Pernian mayor. It is filled by the Vladay Canal, by the Mutiny River, Kladishka, by the Palakarian Derevation and by the spring. From the Vladay Canal since 1972 there is built a treatment plant that does not have a permit for use of water, but uses water and sells it. Which water does he use? He's stealing the one on the Vladay Canal. While it was dry land, we hid, and now we've moved on. They don't, and they never had a permit! The station, if it's convenient and could have been stolen since 1972, why not... There was a technological connection to the Radomir plant. Twenty years of illegal use of this connection and water, which is due to enter the reservoir of Studena, goes to Radomir because Radomir has not built its springs, water sources and has uncomfortable hooked up to the technological plumbing. Twenty years! There was no permit. They didn't mean to. Ten mayors did it, the parties kept them safe. Why shouldn't it be done now? All spring in front of Borisov's cabinet: This is a political solution, we need to feed the city, they will go out on the street. We know it's illegal, we know it's a criminal act. Someone's gonna take it out of the Swimming Directorate. Start the pumps. They've turned them on themselves! Do you believe that to date someone has applied to legalize this activity? There's no such thing. In Bulgaria, it is unpunished. Go behind Borisov, hide, flush and drive for another 20 years. If you have a party behind you, it doesn't matter which party. Three sittings in the Council of Ministers on this topic will the Pernik plumbing be legalized and Vladaiska? Nothing's been done. They didn't pay for the water from the dam. While the crisis was going on, the plumbing there was destroyed, so the prosecution wouldn't catch them. Once the dam was filled, the treatment plant was hooked up, and... If someone gave them the plumbing, they'd use it. That's my problem. Political solutions are ruining dams. The Pernik mayor, the new mayor of Positano, asked him politely, after all his numerous interviews, to at least submit a document of Sofia plumbing to legitimize it. Tomorrow we'll have to use it again, we have no right. Ready water, ready plumbing, and we have no right to use it. Let's at least legitimize it. He's gonna sue me! The Minister of MoEW is asking him to legitimize his plumbing that he might need it again.! I'm asking him to get a permit. Why? Because Positano is helping. And on TV I watch how I have to go and drink brandy and beg him and apologize for asking him to legitimize his plumbing and help legitimize it. Okay. Ask me if the MRRB, respectively the Water and Water, to date, have paid for what they are taking from the reservoir of Studena, whether the pipeline that is built for Radomir but use it as well as when they want illegally, criminally, have submitted at least documents, does this treatment plant have documents? No. Once the dam was filled, the thefts started twice as much as before. At the moment, the city with repairs uses more water than before the water crisis. Since you're with the MRB, you have an indulgence for unpunishedness. I'm setting an example with the DPS so you won't say anything... It's a classic case! Reservoir for purposeful destruction of priceless state resources, creating multi-annual problems and damage to the environment, for only one purpose Do you know how many springs are in the territory of Targovishtko, who are now writing me letters? Two hundred and eighty-three pieces have springs, wells. Do you know how much they're used to? Thirteen. Everything else is destroyed, buried, abandoned, and we hook up with the first state dam around, and we privatize it. For the rest of 270, what kind of care did the VAC operator take? The local mayors, what's their concern? Nothing. I'll tell you in detail this dam. Here's the schematic. [[Shows it.]] Irrigation system - Popovo, dam - 62 million Cube. I built the people. The water masses, through the main irrigation channel, route 46 km along, tunnels, dukes, savazzi, pump stations, all of this stuff is currently destroyed with one accession for one city of Antonovo, for 2000 people. Cube. water. He's got 270 unused drillings hooked up to the dam, and he's an agricultural man. Why? Because it's easier for them. Around the parties in some elections, the local mayor decided for 2,000 people to solve the problem. Instead of fixing his drills, he knew there was a pipe for a former plant to the dam, tied to it. The other city decided that he would do the same, he gave tens of millions of people the pipe didn't work and the water didn't carry, but they did the second stage so that they could drive in other villages. The same city currently has no water because it is powered by third place, passes through nine villages, the nine villages have, the city has no water. And now they're writing me letters, and they're going to feed me a spring with two liters per second. What's going on? Because of a small town and a hundred drillings, someone once politically hung the city and the dam is no longer agricultural, it cannot be used by law is first the drinking water supply, the dam is already drinking. Worse still, the neighboring town, and it's hooked up. They've abandoned all their wells right now, and they're hooking up to the dam because they've drilled not to have farmers dying, even though they're the same elector. With one decision, you make their dam, the same people you leave behind. This pipeline isn't working. He's on election leave. The money's spent, the drilling's abandoned. They're dropping water from nine villages for this town. There really are nine of them! The Minister must have provided for him himself. You're ruining my dams! Currently, an entire 62 million dam is closed because of a city with 2,000 inhabitants who does not want to use their drilling. I explain: it is agricultural, and everything built is in the wind. Once we make one politically wrong decision, we ruin everything with ongoing decisions to make the first decision. All farmers are even your fellow partyers, down the chain now have no water because their dam is closed. Another new madness! Here someone brings a law behind our backs to allow these farmers, who have already, in one act, deprived of water, to be able to dig wherever they want, whenever and whatever they want to do, to fence rivers, to stir up water bodies, to change the water horizons of their neighbors, we have stopped the dam, we have found a solution, dig yourselves. There is a norm behind our backs that must legitimize the theft of underground water sources, and this is the only national resource that we can leave to our children. So, first, under a party dictatorship, we close the dam. Since we have closed the dam, we impose a norm for everyone to do what they can, by digging where they find fit, and if I did not agree to this norm last Friday, they would have asked for my resignation because I didn't understand the political moment?! Is this my dad's dam?! Will I carry it somewhere?! Isn't he national? And you in this room have described it as such. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not my water, but this is the only clean water we have left. We've contaminated the surface waters, at least the underground ones to save us, we've got no others, no third ones! We destroy the shallow ones and steal the land. Is this our future? This is our children's water. One madness leads to the second, to the third, and finally there will be no water for the citizens or for the farmers. Two years ago I was here on one of the strikes I was watching, mother was pushing a stroller and there was an inscription on it. I'm your future, but you're not there! But our children will rely on this water, there is no one else, and we are racing how to destroy it faster. Colleagues, I've spent two terms here as an MP. I was Vice-President, Chairman, you even set up a committee, and I'm grateful. I was a blue helmet among you and we worked well. I come back as a blue helmet with a constructive proposal about how to do the job, not how not to do the job, whether to help or not to help. I've known you here for five years. I assure you, at least as far as I know you, there is not a single person in this room who will believe for a minute that the water that our ancestors have calculated can be gathered in this particular dam. Someone can take down the already closed 46 kilometers of routes in the same places as the previous one, in the same volume, in the same season, without disturbing the water bodies or hindering the remaining citizens who tomorrow will not have to take their water out of the well. What's the cost of this water if they dig? What electricity, what infrastructure?! They'll dig in 20 meters, 100 meters, 100 times in one plot, and free of charge, that's your offer, through the back door, through the Agricultural Commission, because it's known that we're against it! But we're in charge of the waters, gentlemen. Forty-fifty kilometers of route we'll duplicate it with drilling. I assure you, ladies and gentlemen, those hydrologists who once built in Africa, in Asia, in Bulgaria, all these, I assure you, were no more stupid than we were. They built these dams because they figured they had to. They could say, we don't need a dam, dig, dig, but they did. They did a few hundred kilometers of deviating, not because it was easy. Thousands of people built Kamchia, 6 thousand people built pipelines to Varna and Burgas. No one can say that again. At least we can save them, at least towel them. This is the water for our children, this is the future of Bulgaria, this is an renewable resource, we should protect it, not waste it! Another problem of fisheries and aquaculture will be interesting to you. The agriculture ministry has dozens, I would say, hundreds of dams, but it doesn't breed fish there, but it wants to intervene, like everyone else, in the national wealth in the fifty-two national dams, through the back door! We can do it, we can do it, they'll give it to us, we'll do it, you have to let us go! Their committee in the dark is entering. You're creating a problem. We don't have anywhere to absorb euro money. Well, get 'em in your dams, not your national dams! I will only give you two examples, please be so kind as to listen to me! Koprinka Reservoir serves as a river drain 200 km of Tundzha River, near the Turkish river is 390 km, 360 km on our territory. Koprinka Reservoir Full Reservoir Zhrebchevo, it feeds the river terraces where the water sources of Nova Zagora, Sliven, Yambol, Elhovo are located. Understand the entire drinking-bit supply of four districts in Bulgaria is powered by the water dam of Koprinka through the Tundzha river and through the reservoir of Zhrebchevo. From the same river Tundzha and from the same dam, we water in Stara Zagora, Nova Zagora, Sliven, Yambol. From the same river, from the same two dams, we need to fill two more dams, because it is connected to the energy, and the dam is connected to the energy, because it is also connected to the energy, otherwise we will not have a gram of electricity. One of the Stara Zagora passes and fills the Rose Deck and the Rose Deck is full of slime and has 3000 ccs in it. But they stopped the energy! Reservoir "Ovcharitsa" with a built dam, with five walls, we complement it from the river, or with one river we have to fill two dams with two more dams, and we have to give for drinking, for watering, for drinking-biting everything, and the dams were empty. This year is the third year of drought. What are you doing to me? I give you an example: this is the first time you will hear it. August month happened. This year it happened August, next year it will happen April. You'll hear it for the first time! This year, after three years of drought, the hydrostatic pressure levels in the drillings fell sharply in August across the country, but I will only comment on the Tundzha River, which has been entering the Maritsa River for 15 years. The river Tundja didn't continue on Tundja, but went to the river Maritsa! Sliven, Yambol, Elhovo, Nova Zagora, Stara Zagora were almost out of water. The pumps fell down, the hydrostatic, the drilling started to explode, and the third year was drought, and the Koprinka was empty, as they say, "Koprinka" and "Zhrebechevo" were at a dead volume of only mud, there was no water. I'll tell you how we've mastered the situation at an empty dam, drying wells and the largest, maximum demands for water from energy, from irrigation and from the drinking-boilers all, huge fumes. The farmers want to water, the energy wants to cool, the waterhouses want to water their drilling because they're falling, ecology has to have two reserves. We're starting to drop 5 million from Koprinka to Zhrebechevo, 800,000 are arriving. Everything's soaking up! Seventy kilometers of course! Ovcharitsa Reservoir, which cools the plant, has a range if you don't give it to it, will explode if it's too small. We run the small machine to chase the new machine, we run the wave one after the other to water, on the dam, we stop the whole river and we drop it down the irrigation channels to make small losses, so we can take them to Yambol, so Elhovo can get water, so that Hanovo can bar and give water to the dam Ovcharitsa, so that it can not stop the energy. We drop it, we lose it, we lose it, we release new ones disappear, we launch a fast wave, we accelerate. We saved the day. This year we gave all the water and the owner comes from Koprinka dam and says: why are you missing Koprinka dam, I have a permit, I look at fish, you interfere with me, my temperature is changing, I have to move the cages. Who is our more important national interest? Energy, drinking-boiling, citizens or any fish that moves into the national dam?! We have to make a decision about river drain, about energy, about drinking, about dams. We're dealing with fish because someone broke into the national dams! At the moment, a new attack to allow all dams to accommodate private associations to manage them! The second example is Kardzhali. During communism there have done true heroism.. tied three dams to each other.. a stunt, one filled the other, the other filled the third, but then Greece. We have a commitment not to drop more than 300 ccs per second. In the first dam, cauldrons entered. Spring is raining, the dams are filling there is rocky, fast, scary speed. We fill Kardzhali first, we drop in the cold pit, but there is a very dead volume, it is quickly filled, it is overflowing, we drop in Ivaylovgrad, so that we do not flood Greece, we drop all the machines at 270 cc's on two fingers. Good thing the rain stopped, we wouldn't have flooded Greece. The one with the fish comes and says, "Why are you watering us from Kardzhali, changing the temperature of the fish, getting irritated?" Where's the public interest in giving everyone a private dam to use?! In conclusion, for the rafts where Plovdiv should drink water, I should chase the rafts from the rafts from Vacha. Why did I come to you? To ask you, to ask for assistance, not to bear my responsibility, I will carry my cross, but to make an extremely important decision, not with a temporary committee, not with a committee of inquiry, not with conversations here, wherever. To invite you to come to the Ministry of Environment and Water. I'll show you all the cards, and I'll show you the black cards that are hiding, just don't take pictures. Why am I here? Next year, ladies and gentlemen, there will be a water crisis in agriculture, you will have a third election once regular, once presidential, and once water riots. Because the collateralization is 40, 45% to date! I don't have a phone with Grandpa. I don't know if it's gonna rain. This year we gave water to everyone, no one admitted it, no one said it. Next year we have 45, if we do it at 70, 75, we'll save a whole industry. I will give an example only with Plovdiv region. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Madam President, I'm done. Ten years ago, all the pumping stations were cut, pipes were destroyed, irrigation systems were destroyed. What's not cut out doesn't work, and the losses are colossal. Colossal! The rest is now morally outdated. On the agricultural dams, their walls miss, closed exhaust outlets. Nothing works. And if there's water, they don't fill them, because the dams will overflow! We are in an extreme crisis due to criminal inaction to repair agricultural dams and criminal acts in the destruction of our national irrigation system. Is this my question, should we mobilize this year, should we give all water, like this year, or should we leave the situation as it is now? When I came here and swore as a MP, and then as a minister, I said I would be guided by the interests of the people. I must tell you, for these eight months, I have defended the interests of the people, but I have worked for emissaries. Everyone writes letters to one, two, third institution, she to the presidency, the prosecution and I of the few 30% staff left who are not sick, who have no children, send them on meaningless checks, then check the inspection, and finally ask me: why were they not in their office to do their current work? You're killing the Ministry right in front of me! I've forgotten everything, I've done everything, I've done everything, I've done everything. But don't kill the Ministry! I have the opportunity, perhaps the last, today only, a little to serve the interests of the people. We have the opportunity to protect the wide public interest. That's why I took the liberty of coming. I don't want to offend anyone. I apologize twice, I'll apologize three times if I have to. I don't want you to have my responsibility or anyone else's. I'm a member of this office, and as long as the rules require it, I'll do my best by the end of the day. However, I have come to ask you this. Get two people on the air and come over here. I promise I'll show you everything. I'll show you the whole picture, I'll show you the black cards, all the pictures. Come to consider whether it is worthwhile to help farmers and to survive next year? Our ancestors built the dams in our country and predicted that these people could once come a series of dry years, that the energy dams did not need to be poured into the rivers alone and alone. They thought there might be a big drought. That's our luck. They've built opportunities on the basis of which water from the energy dams can be redirected to agricultural land. Figuratively speaking, from one mountain we can send them to the other. They planned how all year round energy processed water could be stored in a warehouse using very complex pumps, tunnels, deviating, but they invented it hard, heavy, complicated, and built it. They have even planned an opportunity for the whole winter to gather for summer and summer to move. Such intelligence, investment and knowledge! How to build it will not happen again in Bulgaria. And it can go to the reservoir. We can, in a way, send the stunts to Stara Planina. Mirror made people, but we didn't know about it. We have a unique system where it's more preserved, where it's not, but we still have it. This system, regardless of the insanity on it, with a slight repair a pumping station can save farmers, but it has to work immediately. She, the water, otherwise it leaks. Theoretically: instead of wasting water in the river, let's collect it and next year the farmers get water approximately equal to this year's. It's a difficult decision to make. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm done, gentlemen. Should we do this, do we have to solve the problems between NEK, the Agriculture Ministry, energy? How are we gonna fix the mix, because if the farmers are gonna resuscitate them, we're gonna have to use coal for electricity, not water. I'm not the smartest guy, and I have no claim. When I took up this post, I said: I don't have all the specialties in ecology, I'm an administrator, I'll administer the process. That's what I'm doing. Maybe better, maybe worse. I've never claimed to be the biggest expert, and I've said it here, from the stand, I'm taking the position to get the term, I'll do my best, I'm the administrator. Is it even worth it? Ladies and gentlemen, a person is either part of the problem or part of the solution or part of the landscape. We've been part of the problem for years. Now, for about a month, you a little later, and I will become part of the landscape. You will return, you will pass new laws. Please don't touch the dams! We have a little bit of time for this parliament to decide whether to save for next year or not? What measures should be taken or not? Come, come, I'll give you everything! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u69	Get it over with, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u70	Thank you for listening. In these difficult times, as they say, God save Bulgaria! Bless you!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u71	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We continue with the second item on the agenda... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] On behalf of a group, okay. Come on in on behalf of a group, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u72	Dear Bulgarian citizens, you heard the most faithful, uncompromising assessment of the management of Boyko Borisov. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This time not by us, the opposition, which we have been giving continuously for four years, you heard it from Borisov's minister on the inside, from the cabinet, from a man who has experienced all these problems that he described. And have you heard the key words about Borisov's rule chaos, carelessness, private interests, theft, theft from the present, but theft from both the children and our grandchildren in the future, illegal and criminal activity, impunity, criminal inaction. Here is the most true assessment of this management in the water sector. Everything we've heard today, we've been talking for a long time. That's a long time ago. Remember Bisser, Asparuhovo, Miziya? Do you remember the government's answer when we were already asking questions when we were proposing solutions? Because I remember the carps in the squares of Miziya, which stood there for a week after the four-foot wave withdrew. I remember all the catastrophic consequences and casualties. You didn't pay attention at the time. Since then, you have given only one answer: get used to it, so it will be, there are climate changes in the world. Get used to watering your houses, get used to it being dry and have no water to drink. But here's the answer to the truth. Why is that? Because Borisov's government is also unchaber in the assessments of the minister himself in some parts with criminal and impunity. However, the Minister has missed a few things that are relevant to the question that we have raised several times as questions and as proposals for solutions. Who cut irrigation systems into scraps and sold them? Because part of the problem is the lack of irrigation systems tied to the dams. Who created a water holding very soon and defined it with 1 billion. lv. capital, which would unite all the dams in the country and manage them already purposefully and wisely, with the care of the people? Who? Borisov's government. Under Borisov's government, irrigation systems were cut by one of his so bright speakers now. Mr. Minister neglected to say about these 10-11 years of government of the cabinet Borisov how many times has the price of water increased for the people? Always with a promise that this price and this money collected by the entire people will be invested in the modernisation of the network, in infrastructure. Did you hear that? There's not a kilometer of new infrastructure at this time the minister reported. Who came up with the new law from last week with everyone's permission to stick in the ground and out of control to drain the groundwater? Borisov's government again. However, there was something else very important in the speech of Minister Dimitrov. And I thank him for that. The high assessment of the professionalism, competence and patriotism of those experts through the socialist government who created and left Bulgaria the system of irrigation systems, dams and care for the water sector. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria (BGSP for Bulgaria))]] However, there is the huge question of the threats that the minister outlined: threat of drought, threat of flooding, threat of a water crisis in agriculture, threat of water riots, threat of having to replace production instead of water, from coal. Do you understand what this means especially today? He says: you will have either fresh air or water. And you'll have to choose either air or water. I say in today because it is another one that reports several times overconflict of air in the major cities of Bulgaria, in Sofia, in Burgas, in Blagoevgrad, air pollution in a kind of crisis when hundreds of thousands of people have trouble breathing when this disease is related to breathing problems, on top of that and the dirty air in the country. And he is right in one question about air, clean water, land and food are questions about the future and about our children, but they are also questions about the health of the nation. Mr. Minister, I share our impression, my personal impression, I expected after this murderous picture of Borisov's government to resign, because after what we heard, we believe that the outcome is the resignation of the entire government. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u73	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We continue with the second item of today's agenda. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please be quiet! Let's calm down. We continue with the second reading of the Law on Marine Spaces. Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u74	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 21: In Art. 2 (1) (a), the following paragraph is added: 112a1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 1 a dash shall be placed at the end and added to the ports referred to in Article 1. 106a and for public transport ports (b) c. 2 the words "nationally important' shall be deleted; (c) c. 3 after the words the owner is added the territoriality and the infrastructure of the airport and the words of regional importance shall be replaced by a terminal of such a port. (d) c. 4 the words "new or extension of an existing port for public transport of regional importance' shall be replaced by a port for public transport or a terminal from an existing port. 2. The creation of para. 5. . (5) Within 7 days of the issuing of the order under para. 3 The Executive Agency of the Sea Administration shall send the officially approved assignment for the development of a draft plan of the Ministry of Environment and Water for the determination of the applicable procedures under Chapter 6 of the Law on Environmental Protection and Art. 31 of the Biodiversity Act and of the Ministry of Culture for Coordination under the Law on Cultural Heritage. Under § 22, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 22. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 112b The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 1 comma after the words the surrounding environment shall be replaced by the Union and the words shall be deleted; (b) point 2 is amended as follows: "2." the minutes of the public discussions held with port users and other interested parties where the draft master plan is for port under art. 106a or for terminal from such port. (c) point 3 is repealed. 2. In para. 2, p. 3 the words "road and/or rail connections' shall be replaced by the "report access infrastructure' and the words "parts of the total' shall be replaced by the "other common' elements. 3. A new para is being created. 5. . (5) Within the term under para. 4 The Executive Agency of the Sea Administration shall send an electronic copy of the draft Master Plan of the Interdepartmental Council on Border Control, of the operating companies to whose networks and facilities are available or provided for accession, and where protected areas are included in the territorial scope of the plan for the protection of cultural heritage and of the Minister of Culture. If, within one month of the date on which a copy of the project was received, one of the addressees does not submit an opinion on the draft master plan, it shall be deemed to agree on it without any comments. 4. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6 and in it, the word "supplied" is replaced by "sacrifice." 5. Previously on AMC's... 6 and 7 become respectively. 7 and 8. Under § 23, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 112c the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2: (a) c. 2 the word "supplied' is replaced by "scheduled'; (b) c. 4 the words "the regulatory boundaries' shall be replaced by "the borders' and after the word "the territory', a comma shall be placed and added "the plan in force'. 2. Allinea 4 is canceled. Under § 24, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 24. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 112d the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 the words "public transport port' shall be replaced by "public transport port'; "state property' shall be replaced by "public transport port'. 2. In para. 2 the words "regionally important' shall be deleted. 3. Allinea 5 is canceled. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26. Under § 27, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 27. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 27 be rejected. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u75	Statements? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 20; the version of § 21 of the Commission Report; the version of paragraphs 22 and 23 of the Commission Report; § 24 of the Commission Report; the wording of the importer for paragraphs 25 and 26; the rejection of § 27 and the text of the importer for § 28, which shall be § 27. Colleagues who are remote. All I see is Mr. Nunev and Mr. Popov. Mr. Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u76	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u77	Mr. Nunev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u78	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u79	Thank you. Vote 19 MPs plus 2 remotes became 121: for 115 plus 2 remotes, 117, not against, abstention 4. The proposals have been accepted. There's going to be a declaration?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u80	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u81	You're welcome, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u82	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Madam President, after hearing Minister Emil Dimitrov's assessment of the overall work of the government, after this clear and strong assessment of the work of the Council of Ministers by a minister, part of this government, we of the "Movement of Rights and Freedoms" believe that you should invite the Prime Minister and he, in turn, or disprove what he said and propose his release, or come here to confirm what he said and resign the entire Council of Ministers in order to put an end to the 10-year political time in which GERB resides in power, as was the assessment of Minister Emil Dimitrov. We understand that different ministries don't communicate, they don't correspond. We found out there's no one to organize the work of the Council of Ministers. This was the assessment of Minister Emil Dimitrov and on our part we urge you to invite the Prime Minister and either to refute what was said and to vote on the resignation of the Minister or to resign to the entire Council of Ministers. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u83	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. I'll contact the Prime Minister. Moving on, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u84	Under § 29, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 29. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 29, which shall become § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 Article 112i is amended as follows: Art. 112i. (1) The right of construction to extend an existing public transport port shall be established for the benefit of the owner of the territory and port infrastructure of the existing port or terminal thereof. (2) The right of construction to expand an existing port under art. 107 "109" or of a specialized port establishment under art. 111a, para. 1 or art. 111b, para. 1 shall be established for the benefit of the owner of the territory and port infrastructure of the existing port, respectively the owner of the existing specialized port site. (3) The volume of the right to construction under para. 1 shall be determined in accordance with the approved master plan of the port for public transport and under para. 2 in accordance with the approved specialized detailed development plan under art. 112e. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 29. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31, which shall become § 30. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32, which shall become § 31, as in para. 7 words are replaced by a refund and the words a paycheck is replaced by a paycheck. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33, which shall become § 32, in c. 1, b. The words of the managing authority of the port for the ports referred to in Article 1 shall be inserted after the words of the managing authority of the port. 106a "s' are replaced by the State-owned enterprise "Sport Infrastructure'. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 34, which shall become § 33: ................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 a comma is finally placed, added within 7 days of the occurrence of the infringement and a sentence second is created: "Written objections to the constitutional act may be lodged within 3 days of its service. 2. A new para is being created. 4. (4) The order under para. 3 may be challenged in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Code within 14 days of its knowledge. The complaint lodged shall not stop the execution. 3. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5 and in it, the words.............................. and the words............................................................... 2 for the submission of objections against them and the statement of objections shall be deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35, which shall become § 34.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u85	Are there any speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I put to the vote the version of § 29 which becomes § 28; the text of the importer for § 30 becomes 29; the text of the importer for § 31 becomes § 30; the text of the importer for § 32 becomes § 31 with the corresponding replacement of words in the text; the text of the importer for § 33 becomes 32 with the corresponding changes; the version of § 34 which becomes § 33 under the Commission Report; and the text of the importer for § 35 which becomes § 34. Mr. Popov, how do you vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u86	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u87	Mr. Nunev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u88	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u89	Thank you. The result is 103 MPs: for 95 plus 2 remote.. 97, not against, abstention 6. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u90	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 36, which shall become § 35: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 115m The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 1 comma after the word "building' is deleted and added to the ports and ports of state ownership, as well as to the words "to public transport ports of national importance' are replaced by the port ports of state ownership, by the public transport ports of the "public transport ports'; (b) point 2 is amended as follows: "2." State ownership management in public transport ports; (c) c. 4 after the words suppliers shall be placed comma and the words...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. 106a and in public transport ports (d) point 6 is amended as follows: It's six. identification, collection and cost of port fees under art. 103c, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 109a, para. 3; (d) (e) c. 8 a dash shall be placed after the word "infrastructural" and the words "public transport ports of national importance" shall be replaced by "Stately owned"; (f) c. 10 words for the public transport ports of national importance shall be replaced by the words for the ports of art. 106a and for public transport ports or terminals from such ports which are State owned; (g) c. 17 the words "port areas which include a port for public transport of national importance" shall be replaced by the ports of art. 106 a.s.; (h) c. 18 the words "nationally important' shall be replaced by the terminals of such ports which are State owned; (i) c. 19 the words of the ports and of the ports shall be replaced by the words of the ports referred to in art. 106a and the public transport ports (k) create a t. 20: It's 20. the establishment, maintenance and administration of a national system for the electronic exchange of information in public transport ports. 2. The creation of para. 4. The port infrastructure is an internal operator in accordance with the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2017/352 when providing one of the maritime and technical port services under art. 1 (2) in points (a) and (b) of paragraph 2 in points (a) and (c) of that Regulation in a port referred to in art. 106a. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 37, which shall become § 36, in c. 2 the words "the other ports' shall be replaced by "the ports'. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 38, which shall become § 37: ...... 37........................................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 115p, para. 7 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 the words the ports for public transport of national importance shall be replaced by the ports of art. 106a and the ports of the State-owned companies. 2. point 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. adopt a seven-year development programme for each of the ports under art. 106a; 3. Point 10 is amended as follows: ..10. on a proposal from the Director-General, determine the amounts of port charges under art. 103c, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 109a, para. 3, as well as changes in them. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 39, which shall become § 38, in c. 2 the words "supplied' shall be replaced by "supplied'. Under § 40, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 40. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 40, which shall become § 39: .............................................................................. Article 115 shall be amended as follows: Art. 115. The financing of the construction, reconstruction, rehabilitation, maintenance and development of public transport ports, as well as the establishment, storage and maintenance of capacities and material means of carrying out State resources defence-mobilization activities of the country shall be carried out in accordance with the rules for granting State aid. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 41, which shall become § 40. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 42, which shall become § 41. Under § 43, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 43. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 43, which shall become § 42: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 116a The following amendments shall be made: 1. Alinei 3 and 4 are amended as follows: s (3) the activities of the territories of the State in the public transport ports may be carried out by the State-owned undertaking In the case of a concession awarded, the carrying out of the accompanying activity shall be included in the subject matter of the concession contract and the revenues thereof shall be included in the value of the concession. (4) The accompanying activities of the territories of the municipal property in the public transport ports may be carried out by means of a concession awarded. 2. In para. 5 the words "regionally important' shall be replaced by "privately owned territories'. Under § 44, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 44. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 44, which shall become § 43: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 117 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 the words the State-owned enterprise "port infrastructure" and "port infrastructure" shall be deleted. 2. A new para is being created. 3: . (3) Port operators shall provide their workers with the necessary, in line with technological innovations, initial and subsequent training for the proper, healthy and safe performance of the service functions assigned to them. 3. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4. 4. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5 and is amended as follows: s (5) A public register shall be kept for port operators under conditions and in order laid down by a regulation of the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The entry in the register is a condition for the provision of port services. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 45, which shall become § 44, i.e. 3 concerning para. 4 t. 3 the words "in all other cases' shall be replaced by "outside' cases. One and two.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u91	Colleagues, speeches? I won't. I put to the vote: the version of § 36, which becomes § 35 of the Commission Report; the text of the importer for § 37, which becomes § 36 with the corresponding replacement; the version of § 38 which becomes § 37 of the Commission Report; the text of the importer for § 39, which becomes § 40, and 42, which becomes paragraphs 40 and 41 respectively; the version of § 43, which becomes § 42 of the Commission Report; the version of § 44, which becomes § 43 of the Commission Report; and the text of the importer for § 45, which becomes § 44 with the corresponding replacements in the text. Mr. Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u92	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u93	There's a MP who voted remotely. They voted 111 MPs plus one remote 112: for 106, not against, abstention 6. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u94	Under § 46, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 46. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 46, which shall become § 45: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 117b The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: a) in the text before t. 1 words "al." The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): the following point is inserted (b) c. 5 words within the meaning of art. 162 of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code to the State and to the Municipality shall be replaced by the State or to the Municipality for taxes or compulsory insurance contributions under art. 162, para. 2, p. 1 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code, including their interest; c) create new t. 6 and 7: It's six. maintain a certified quality management system according to standard EN ISO 9001:2015 or equivalent; 7. has established the necessary organisation to ensure the availability of the maritime and technical port service 24/7, without interruption and weekends, throughout the year and for its operation without undue delay of ships; (d) the so-called t. 6 is going to be t. 8 and amended as follows: It's 8 o'clock. in cases where ships are used for the operation of a maritime technical service: (a) have one or more vessels meeting the technical requirements for the safety of navigation and the requirements of art. 6 of the Code of Commercial Shipping; (b) have the minimum number of seafarers required for the assembly of crew vessels; (c) maintain a certified system for managing the safe operation of ships and preventing pollution by ships when the service is carried out with one or more vessels subject to provisions of an international contract requiring the maintenance of such a system to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a party; in such cases equivalence under point (c) 6 shall not be proven; (d) maintain ready for immediate response to its vessels in accordance with the emergency plan of the port and the orders of the officials of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration; (e) Previously on Seven and eight are canceled. 2. In para. 2 words.............................................................................. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 1 to amend this Regulation by means of implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 (2). 117, para. The words 3. They're creating an al. The Executive Agency of the Sea Administration shall exercise control over the compliance of port operators with the requirements of para. 1 and 2 under the terms and conditions of the ordinance under art. 117, para. 5. (4) In the event of non-compliance with the requirements of para. 1, t. 5, 6, 7 or 8, or by para. 2: 1. the master of the port shall give the port operator mandatory prescriptions for the removal of the non-compliance and shall set a reasonable period of time for their implementation; 2. The Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration shall temporarily apply the activities of the port operator until the non-compliance has been resolved, where the mandatory provisions laid down in point (c) of this paragraph are not complied with. 1 are not fulfilled within the time limit; 3. The Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration shall remove the port operator from the register of port operators upon suspension of activities lasting more than 12 months. (5) The provision of para. 4 t. 3 shall also apply in the event of non-compliance with any of the requirements of para. 1, t. 1........................................................... (6) Mandatory prescriptions under para. 4 t. 1, suspension of the activity of the port operator under para. 4 t. 2 and deletion from the register of port operators under para. 4 t. 3 and para. 5 may be challenged by the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. An order giving the port operator mandatory prescriptions or ordering its suspension shall be subject to immediate enforcement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u95	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of § 46, which shall become § 45 of the Commission Report. Mr. Nunev, how do you vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u96	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u97	They voted 118 MPs plus one colleague from remote to 119: for 112 plus one remote to 113, against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Rhodolyptics. Here you go, Mrs. Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u98	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, honourable Bulgarians! The declaration on behalf of the group of the Bulgarian Rhodophilizers (Bulgarian Rhodophiles) which I want to make is rather an address to the Bulgarians. Today in this Chamber, the Minister of Environment and Water eight months later, after being a minister, came and exposed really stressful facts. We will miss the fact that his party has actually been part of the government of Bulgaria for three and a half years and apparently today he has decided to tell us all this. But what became clear, dear Bulgarians?! It became clear that there was no municipality not lobbying for these water resources. It became clear that this was the result of long managements of various parties, because the problem is not from today. He hasn't been since yesterday. What, though, not the MPs heard, but the representatives of the various political parties in this House. For example, BSP heard that the problem is GERB. They didn't hear about the mayor of Pernik, they didn't hear they were involved in all this all these years. GERB didn't react. The DPS didn't hear about the municipalities where they created the problem. But what we heard from Volya and what you heard from all of Bulgaria that only we, only we, have not participated in all these years and in no way... [[noise and lines]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u99	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u100	...we are not responsible for the state of water resources in the country. Only we of the Vol were not mentioned to have lobbied for anyone in this country and led to this situation that the state would really wonder what would happen to water resources.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u101	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u102	I hope you've really all heard this, colleagues, because very often some of you are exercising on our names. We of Volya remain representatives of the Bulgarian people, not of the interests of a political party or of certain businessmen, fishermen, farmers and so on to the detriment of the Bulgarian people. We at WALK are the only ones as pragmatists, as people who are looking for quick solutions, want to get acquainted with the problem. We will obviously be the only ones to respond to the Minister's call and we will go to the Ministry of Environment and Water today to look at all these stressful facts with which he wanted to introduce the MPs of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention and I wish you to start reacting as quickly as the People's Representatives of the Volya. [[Private applause by the Bulgarian Rhodolists]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u103	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. Colleagues, I will put to the vote the version of § 40, which becomes § 39 of the Commission Report. I missed a vote. He was in a series of many paragraphs, but I guess I didn't read it, so let's vote on it now. Mr. Nunev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u104	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u105	Thank you. Vote 105 MPs plus one remote turn into 106: 100 plus one remote turn for 101, not against, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. [[Noise and lines.]] Come in for a statement, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u106	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It's 10:30. Exactly at this hour 101 years ago in the suburbs of Paris Neui Sur Sen begins the procedure for signing the peace treaty with Bulgaria. [[Noise.]] This procedure lasts exactly 25 minutes... as long as an execution. The treaty is signed between the Contracting Parties...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u107	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u108	...winners in World War I, and Bulgaria. The treaty was made by the Paris Peace Conference, where the Bulgarian delegation practically does not participate and has the character of a dictator whose main purpose is to punish Bulgaria. The winners forget their assurances about the fair Bulgarian demands of the summer of 1915, which remained in the history of World War I as the Bulgarian Summer. The interests of the Balkan neighbours who were on the side of the winners in order to preserve the stolen Bulgarian lands after the inter-Union war of 1913, topped the proclaimed principles for post-war device. Bulgaria emerges from the war in the hope that the 14 points announced by US President Woodrow Wilson will be followed in the development of peace treaties after the war. This programme promises the right of peoples to have their own and the right to national self-determination. It is envisaged that the defeated countries will conclude open peace treaties made after an open discussion in front of everyone. For the Bulgarian society, the application of the principle of self-determination is a guarantee that the predominantly Bulgarian population of land in Thrace, Dobrudzha and Macedonia will remain within the limits of the kingdom. The Bulgarian statesmen rightly rely on President Wilson to support the fair demands of the Paris Peace Conference, because during World War I, the United States of America is the only power of the Antanta that does not declare war on Bulgaria and the US diplomatic representative in Sofia Dominic Murphy plays an active role in the conclusion of the 1918 Thessaloniki truce. Bulgarian hopes, however, remain in vain. European cases are decided by the French-English duet, led by Georges Clemento and Lloyd George, which outline the conditions of peace, defined as a second national disaster. President Wilson is leaving the September Conference, and Congress has not ratified the peace treaties following the Versailles-Washington Agreements. Under the treaty, the lands for which Bulgaria fought in Dobrudja and Macedonia, inhabited by over 1,400,000 people, remain within Romania, Yugoslavia and Greece. From the old lands of the kingdom are cut off parts of Kulsko and Trunsko, the entire regions of Tsaribrodsko, Bosilegrad and Strumishko, which amount to 2566 km with over 92 000 people. Twenty-five Bulgarian villages are divided in half. Western Thrace with territory over 8700 sq. km and population 261 000 Bulgarians were handed over to Greece, with which the White Sea escape was lost. Bulgaria must pay the winners the huge amount of 2 billion. 250 million. golden leva. for a period of 50 years, and the Bulgarian Army is reduced to 20,000 volunteers, with all armed forces, along with police, gendarmerie and border guards, cannot exceed 33,000 people. The development of a navy and an air force is prohibited. Bulgaria is treated as a non-sovereign state and is placed under the control of an Inter-Union Control Commission. The New York Treaty determines the historical development of Bulgarians throughout the 20th century. The national catastrophe creates a deep crisis in Bulgarian society. The destruction of national ideals, the enormous sacrifices, the material losses lead to acute polarisation and political opposition. The question of the causes and responsibility of the disaster raises some Bulgarians against other Bulgarians. Here comes the time of violence and civil war. Authoritarian regimes are alternated with military coups. Democracy is rejected and is designed in its place "orange" or "proletary" dictatorship, elite management or non-party power. The peaceful revision of the New York Treaty became a fundamental principle of Bulgarian foreign policy in the coming decades. Bulgaria refuses to seek changes along the way of the war and relies that minority rights can be secured through protection by the League of Nations. This issue is rejected by the ruling in Belgrade, which proclaims Vardar Macedonia Old Serbia and prohibits the use of the term "Macedonia" at all, and the Bulgarians "Serbs." Athens imposes, together with the signing of the Neucoin Treaty, the conclusion of a bilateral agreement on the exchange of populations, which marks the beginning of the removal of the Bulgarians from Aegean Macedonia and later from Western Thrace. Set in conditions to border on itself, Bulgaria cannot forget and survive the wounds of the war. Over one million refugees from Macedonia, 400,000 from Belomorie and Thrace, 100,000 from Dobrudzha and over 50 000 from the Bulgarian lawn and the Western suburbs arrive in the free borders of the kingdom. They create numerous earth-based, charitable, scientific and social organizations. They create families, work, raise children and keep looking with hope at the homeland where they have left their property, relatives and memories. This national tragedy defines Bulgarian history in the next world war. During World War II Bulgaria managed to correct one of the injustices by returning South Dobrudja peacefully, but the decisions of the Great Powers in the other directions are for preserving the Balkan status quo. The resuscitation of Yugoslavia in the form of a federal communist state leads to the establishment of the People's Republic of Macedonia, the predecessor of the Union Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Macedonia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and the present-day Northern Republic of Macedonia on an anti-Bulgarian basis. The territorial status quo was established at the expense of the Bulgarians. And today the Bulgarian people continue to pay the price of this injustice. The heirs of Serbian occupiers and Yugoslav communists, innocently defined today as the deep state, continue to divide and oppose some Bulgarians against other Bulgarians. This cannot be forgotten. This can't be undone. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the... United patriots.............................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u109	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, I am doing a procedure to extend legislative activity at today's meeting until this bill is completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u111	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. A reverse opinion? Here you go, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u112	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! You became a habit of extending the legislative part on Friday and completely ignoring parliamentary control. [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]] In the last month there were four Fridays for parliamentary control, of which two were dropped as parliamentary control at all, and two were extremely reduced. Just about an hour ago, the Minister of Environment and Water told you how you manage. What we want is really control over how you manage. You're all trying to hide how you rule, so we're against it. [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u113	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. I put to the vote the proposal to extend the legislative part of today's sitting until the end of this law. Vote 112 MPs: 82, against 29, abstention 1. The proposal to extend the legislative part has been adopted. Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u114	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 47, which shall become § 46: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 117c the following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: s (1) the provision of a service of service of service of service under art. 116, para. 2, p. 2 and 3 and of maritime and technical port services in the cases referred to in art. 117a, para. 4 t. 1 of one or more works of state, shall be awarded with a concession for services under the terms and conditions of the concession law. 2. Alinea 2 is canceled. 3. In para. 3 words................................................................................. 1 or 2 is replaced Under § 48, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 48. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 48, which shall become § 47: ss ss s s s s s In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 121 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: 1 An official who violates the provisions of art. 92, para. Art. 6 or Art. 6 112, para. 5 concerning the entry in the register of ports and specialized ports or registered in the register of port operators a person in violation of the requirements of art. A fine from BGN 1000 to BGN 3000 is punishable by 117b. The master of a port which ordered or allowed entry in the first sentence shall be punished with a fine from BGN 2000 to BGN 5000. 2. A new para is being created. 2: . (2) Whoever violates or allows to be violated the prohibition under art. 92, para. 7 or under art. 112, para. 6, or the order for carrying out port services under art. 116, para. 5, is punished with a fine from 10 000 to 50 000 BGN, respectively with a penalty from 50 000 to 300,000 BGN if the infringement was committed by a legal person or a sole trader. In the event of a repeated infringement, a fine shall be imposed, respectively, in a double amount. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3 and is amended as follows: . (3) Whoever violates other provisions of the law or of its implementing regulations shall be punished with a fine from 2000 to 10 000 BGN, respectively with a penalty of 10 000 to 50 000 BGN, if the infringement is committed by a legal person or a sole trader. 4. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4 and in it the words "use of craft for sport, tourism and entertainment" are deleted. 5. The creation of para. 5. . (5) Whoever violates the provisions of the law or the act of the Council of Ministers under art. 5, para. 4 on the order of use of craft for sport, tourism and entertainment is punished with a fine from 500 to 1000 BGN. In case of repeated infringement, a fine of double size shall be imposed. 6. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 6 And in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 October 2011 laying down detailed rules for implementing Under § 49, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs under Article 49. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 49, which shall become § 48: ............... 48............................................................... Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 121b and 121c: Art. 121b. (1) A penalty of 10 000 BGN shall be imposed. of a State-owned enterprise, Port infrastructure, where: 1. enter into a contract under Article 1. 106e, para. 2 for which there is no decision of the Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration to justify the need to impose a public service obligation, respectively, without any of the circumstances under art. 7 (4) of Regulation (EU) 2017/352; 2. fail to fulfil an obligation under Article 2. 13 (5) of Regulation (EU) 2017/352; 3. adopt a decision under art. 106b, without a public consultation procedure in accordance with art. 106b, para. Three and four. (2) In case of repeated infringement under para. 1 a double-size penalty is imposed. Art. 121c. (1) A penalty of 10 000 BGN shall be imposed. to a port operator providing port services in port under art. 106a, which failed to fulfil an obligation under art. 15 (3) of Regulation (EU) 2017/352. (2) A penalty of 10 000 BGN shall be imposed. to a port operator under art. Article 12 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2017/352 which has not been fulfilled within the period referred to in Article 12 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2017/352. 106z, para. 2, p. 3 obligations under art. Article 12 (3) of that Regulation. (3) In case of repeated infringement under para. A double-size penalty shall be imposed on 1 or 2. Under § 50, there is a proposal from the MP Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs under Article 50. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 50, which shall become § 49: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In § 1a: (a) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: (1) The plans for acceptance and treatment of waste shall be developed in accordance with the requirements of the ordinance under art. 95, para. 1 by State-owned enterprise 106a and for public transport ports, state property, respectively by the owners of the territory and the infrastructure for the other public transport ports and for the ports under art. 107 "109." Before being approved by the Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration, the plans shall be agreed with the Minister of Environment and Water or with an official authorised by him. (b) in para. 2 words.............................................................................. 92, para. 5, t. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10 and 12 92, para. 5, t. Two, three, four, five, six, eight, nine and ten. 2. In § 2: (a) c. 20 after the word "Secures', the word "Secure' shall be added and after the word "Safety'; (b) point 23 is repealed; (c) point 42 is repealed; (d) shall be established. 52 - 56: "52." The total technical infrastructure of the port is a collection of buildings, facilities and linear engineering networks of transport, water supply and sewerage, electricity, heat supply, gas supply, electronic communications, waste treatment and geo-protection activities which serve more than one terminal from a public transport port and, as foreseen by the master plan of the port, are intended for general use by all port operators and port users under the same conditions. The deviation from linear engineering networks to the border of the port terminal concerned shall be considered as part of the common technical infrastructure. 53. The access point shall be the part of the common technical infrastructure of the port including the facilities and linear engineering networks of transport by which access is ensured to users by land and by sea, by inland waterways, respectively, by port and entry into it. 54. The road and rail approaches to the port border ensuring its connection to the road network, respectively to the railway infrastructure, are 55. The approach channels, approach areas and maneuvering areas of ships, as well as external rails or anchor stations, are the maritime access and inland waterway access facilities. 56. A national system for the electronic exchange of information in public transport ports is an open electronic platform that ensures an intelligent and secure exchange of information between public authorities, port operators and port users for the purpose of managing, optimizing and automated port and logistics processes through one-off data submission and interconnection of transport and logistics chains.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u115	Are there any statements under paragraphs 47 to 50 by importer? I won't. I'm calling off the debate. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 47. 50, which shall be renumbered by numbers from § 46 to § 49. Voted 103 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u116	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. Under § 51, there is a proposal from the National Representative Halil Letifov in accordance with Article 51. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 51 be rejected. Under § 52, there is a proposal from the MP Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs under Article 52. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 52, which shall become § 50: .................................................................................. In the Code of Commercial Shipping (promise, SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) c. 1 words.............................................................................. 103c, para. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed (b) A new item shall be created. 7. "7." the part of the port charges under art. 103c, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on marine spaces, inland waterways and ports of the Republic of Bulgaria, determined by size and collected under the terms and conditions of art. 106c, para. 2 of the same law; c) the current t. 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 362a, para. 3 t. 10 is canceled. Under § 53, there is a proposal from the MP Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs under Article 53. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 53 be rejected. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 54, which shall become § 51. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 55, which shall become § 52. Under § 56, there is a proposal from the MP Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs under Article 56. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 56, which shall become § 53: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, on a proposal from the Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration, shall determine by order the limits of the aquatory, territory and infrastructure of the ports under art. 106a in accordance with the data listed in the register under art. 92, para. 5 and in accordance with the plans in force until the entry into force of this law. (2) The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and an official authorised by him shall re-issue, within 3 months of the entry into force of this Act, the certificates for the operational suitability of the terminals of the ports under art. 106a. Under § 57, there is a proposal from the MP Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 57. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 57, which shall become § 54: s) § 54 (1) The pending assessments and security plans of the port areas approved until the entry into force of this law shall remain effective as assessments and security plans of a port under art. 106a. (2) The closed assessments and security plans of ports approved until the entry into force of this law shall remain effective as assessments and security plans of a port facility. Under § 58, there is a proposal from the MP Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 58. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 58 be rejected. Under § 59, there is a proposal from the MP Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs under Article 59. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 59 be rejected. Under § 60, there is a proposal from the MP Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs under Article 60. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 60, which shall become § 55: ........... 55....................................................................... (1) Until the entry into force of the decision of the Management Board of the State-owned enterprise "Port Infrastructure" for the structure and amount of the port fees under art. 103c, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 109a, para. 3 in port under art. 106a, designated by the current order and amount of port charges, shall be collected. (2) Until the approval of the plans for acceptance and treatment of waste in ports under art. 106a shall apply the welded approved until the entry into force of this law of the plans for acceptance and treatment of waste by collecting the fees laid down in the current order and size. (3) The plans for the acceptance and treatment of waste of public transport ports to which Regulation (EU) 2017/352 does not apply shall remain valid. (4) Paragraph 3 shall not apply where changes to the circumstances in which the plans for acceptance and treatment of waste have been approved have been made to the entry into force of this Act. Under § 61, there is a proposal from the MP Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs under Article 61. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, item 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 61, which shall become § 56: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) Within 6 months of the entry into force of this law, the State-owned enterprise shall submit the application under art. 112a1, para. 1, t. 1 for the establishment and (2) The predictions of the general plans under para. 1 as regards the infrastructure for access shall comply with the approved until the entry into force of this Act, the master plans for port terminals of a port under art. 106a.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u117	Just a minute. Please put your masks on at the bottom! Mr. Pawnov, please put your mask on.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u118	(3) The submitted but not approved until the entry into force of this law projects of general plans providing for common infrastructure for access to a port under art. 106a shall be approved as general plans for port terminals from port under Art. 106a. 106a. Their forecasts regarding the infrastructure for access shall apply until approval of the master plan of the port under art. 106a. (4) The authorisations granted until the entry into force of this law for the preparation of projects of general plans providing for a common infrastructure for access with terminals from a port under art. 106a, maintain action. The draft master plans drawn up in accordance with them shall be approved in accordance with para. 3. Under § 62, there is a proposal from the MP Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 62. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 62 be rejected. Under § 63, there is a proposal from the MP Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 63. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 63 be rejected. Under § 64, there is a proposal from the MP Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 64. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 64 be rejected. Under § 65, there is a proposal from the MP Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs under Article 65. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 65 be rejected. There is a proposal from the National Representative Ivan Valkov according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 57: ...... 57............................................................... (1) Built before 2 April 2018 brigo-protected and coastal hydro-technical facilities on the Black Sea coast in the river flows of the Black Sea and in the Bulgarian section of the Danube River, which are designed and constructed so that they ensure safe docking and temporary stay of ships, may be entered in the register under art. 92, para. 4 as specialized port sites under art. 111a, para. 1 or art. 111b, para. 1. (2) The application for entry shall be accompanied by a draft of a specialised detailed development plan under art. ) (a.k.a. 3 reflective of the existing situation. (3) The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications shall conduct a procedure for coordination of the draft of a special detailed plan under para. 2 and send it to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works for acceptance and approval. In these cases, no art. ) (a.k.a. 5. (4) The entry of the specialized port establishment in the register under art. 92, para. 4 shall be carried out within one month of the entry into force of the order of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works for approval of the project under para. 2 and after issue of a certificate of suitability. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 66, which shall become § 58: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Paragraph 13 concerning art. 106c, para. 2 § 15, as regards Art. 109c and § 38, t. 2 shall enter into force from 1 January 2021
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u119	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. I shall open the deliberations referred to in paragraphs 51 to 66, including the proposal for a new § 66, which shall become § 57. Are there any speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the texts proposed by the Commission on paragraphs. They voted 102 MPs: 83, against 2, abstention 17. Thus, all the paragraphs of the Bill have been adopted, and thus the Bill itself. Moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. No new requests have been submitted for the period 20 "November 26, 2020'. Written answers to service: - from the Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - from the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Dessislava Taneva to a question from the National Representative Dimitar Danchev; - from the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Dessislava Taneva to a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Daniel Yordanov and Lyubomir Bonev; - from the Minister of Culture Boel Banov to a question from the MPs Anastas Popdimitrov and Nona Yotova. - from the Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov to a question from the National Representative Vesela Lecheva; - from the Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov to a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - from the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the National Representative Georgi Stoilov; - from the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the MPs Stefan Burgev and Georgi Stoilov; - from the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to a question from the MPs Nikolai Tsonkov and Anton Kutev; - from the Deputy Prime Minister of Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov to a question from the MPs Nikolay Tsonkov and Dimitar Danchev; - from the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Dessislava Taneva to a question from the National Representative Radoslav Stoychev; - from the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Dessislava Taneva to a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - by the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov to two questions from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - from the Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov to a question from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev; - from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to a question from the National Representative Simeon Simeonov; - from the Minister of Finance Kiril Ananiev to a question from the National Representative Lalo Kirilov; - from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to a question from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov; - by the Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov to a question from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov; - from the Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov to a question from the MPs Manoil Manev and Radostin Tanev. Please receive your written answers from Members of the United Patriarchs and GERB. Are there any willing GERBs to receive written answers, or are there no willing ones? There aren't any. Well, they burn. We are addressing questions to Mariana Nikolova (Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy and Minister for Tourism). The first question is from the MP Hristo Prodanov on financial support for tour operators and travel agents. Mr. Prodanov, come in. I hope you're satisfied that parliamentary control was only three minutes late.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u120	Mr. Chairman, I have only told you the facts that for the last month, the last four Fridays, parliamentary control has been conducted in total for two hours. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, on my question of 20 October 2020, on the famous aid to tour operators and travel agents for the notorious 10 million. lv. Here for the three million you promised. lv. I'm not going to talk to the tour guides at all because I'm ashamed of that, too. You promised that 840 applications were received under this programme for 10 million. lv. aid to tour operators and travel agents, and in this regard I have the following questions to you: how has the selection of candidates for this aid been made, has there been even one lev paid to tour operators and travel agents? Who and at what cost does this selection work? Have you ever announced an external valuer contest? How have you chosen the performer under what conditions should he and everything else that is necessary for the transparency of the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u121	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u122	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Prodanov, for the answer already provided to your question, No 054-06-992 of 20 October 2020, I offer to your attention the following additional information. The selection of candidates for support aid for small and medium-sized enterprises in the tourism sector to address the economic consequences of COVID-19 by applying a support scheme by the Ministry of Tourism is carried out by a committee designated by an act of the Minister of Tourism. The commission has been appointed by order. Representatives of the Ministry of Tourism and external experts shall participate in the Commission. It shall consist of a Chair and two Secretaries. The Chair and the Secretaries shall have no voting rights, and eight members shall have voting rights. The members of the evaluation committee with voting rights shall participate in the meetings, shall have equal rights in the decision-making process and shall be responsible for the evaluation process. The decisions of the evaluation committee shall be taken by a majority of one second of the voting members. For financing, all project proposals that comply with the assessment criteria in Annex No 5 shall be approved in proportion to the number of project proposals approved and the turnover of each undertaking for 2019. The Chair and Secretaries of the evaluation committee shall carry out the distribution of draft proposals on a random basis by means of the ISU. The evaluation shall verify the administrative compliance of the project proposal with the conditions for applying and the eligibility of applicants according to the criteria and methodology for assessing the project proposal. This assessment shall be carried out by one member of the evaluation committee with a voting right and shall be documented by completing the evaluation sheets for the verification of administrative compliance and eligibility in ISU. Where a lack of documents and/or other irregularities is detected, the Commission shall carry out and notify the applicant of the irregularities identified and shall set a reasonable time limit for their removal. The evaluation committee may require applicants and additional explanatory information and at any time verify the data declared by the applicants and require clarification of the documents submitted in accordance with the requirements of the application conditions under the relevant procedure. The evaluation committee shall not be entitled to propose for removal a candidate for unsubstantiated documents where they relate to circumstances entered or declared in the Trade Register. In this case, the Commission is obliged to apply the provision of art. 23, para. 4 of the Commercial Register Act and carry out an official check in the Commercial Register, the same reflected in the minutes and the valuation report. The policy led by the Ministry of Tourism and the administrative units carried out in its structure do not impose specific expertise on the evaluation of projects under operational programmes financed by the Structural Funds of the European Union, given that the Ministry and its units do not fulfil the function of the managing authority of the operational programme, respectively, do not have that type of specific administrative capacity. In this regard, in order for this financial assistance to be timely and to have its positive effect for economic operators, and in order to ensure the administration of the very large number of project proposals in the short time available for consideration and assessment, the urgent need for external experts to be employed has been justified. I note that the possibility of hiring external experts is detailedly regulated in Decree No 162 of the Council of Ministers of 5 July 2016 laying down detailed rules for granting grants under the programmes financed by the European Union and investment funds. The sum of an estimate of a project proposal under the contract concluded...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u123	Get it over with, Mrs. Nikolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u124	...extends to 83 leva. excluding VAT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u125	Thank you. - What's the line? Mr. Prodanov, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u126	I know, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, you haven't answered my question: how much has there been paid before and 1 leva. in connection with this help? The other thing you didn't answer, yes, you said BGN 83. of a project proposal, and what I've calculated means about 85,000. lv. The tourism ministry has given an external valuer to assess these projects, which have not actually been evaluated so far. In this regard, I ask myself the following few questions: how is this external valuer chosen, because this is not the lowest price at which you have made your choice? Why hasn't a contest been announced? Why was it necessary for the Ministry of Tourism to apply and become a beneficiary of these funds, provided that you yourself say that you do not have the necessary administrative capacity to make this assessment? Wasn't it much easier and extremely faster the Ministry of Economy the same 10 million. lv. with their administrative capacity to allocate them to these tour operators and so far all these funds would have reached the beneficiaries, i.e. those to whom you want to help the tour operators and travel agents, those 840 who, you say, have submitted documents and applied for? And the other thing that bothers me and I'm asking you: should and should have needed some extra 85,000. lv. to give a private company instead of this money to be allocated additionally to those affected by the crisis tour operators and travel agents, and what was the purpose of this whole exercise?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u127	Thank you. Mrs. Nikolova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u128	Dear Mr. Prodanov, on the subject of the additional information you require, I would like to strongly state that the procedures and rules that the Ministry of Tourism complies with are in line and in line with the current regulations, including with regard to the application of the project proposal based on the principle of aid deminimis, the Ministry of Tourism has agreed with the Managing Authority and this is the decision that has been taken in order to express and quickly reach these funds to those in need. I can clearly state that there is no violation in terms of hiring external experts and what we have done, and the capacity that we have used further is linked to the statutory rules. I can also state that, from 2 November 2020, access has been created to the projects in the ISAN in order for the evaluation committee to start the work on their assessment and from 24 November 2020. The Commission has launched a notification procedure to nearly 450 candidates for identified irregularities, deficiencies or discrepancies, setting a reasonable deadline for their removal, which cannot be shorter than one week. I would also like to emphasise that, when it comes to European funds, all procedures, rules and deadlines are respected, including in terms of raising irregularities, so that the funds that will be obtained are legal and there is no subsequently request for reimbursement of the amount to the managing authority.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolova. The next question is again from the MP Hristo Prodanov on spending public funds from the budget of the Ministry of Tourism. Here you go, Mr. Prodanov. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u130	Dear Minister, to my question of 20 October 2020 on the spending of public funds from the budget of the Ministry of Tourism, you replied to me that the Ministry of Tourism did not have contracts for repairs and furniture. According to my information, that's not true. In this regard, I ask for your answer to the following: what repair activities have been carried out in the meeting room of the Ministry of Tourism and what is its area? In order to make some assessment of the unit cost of the repairs carried out and to assess whether this is a real and sparing spending of money. The other thing I wanted to ask you is: have the furniture contracts been concluded for the Ministry of Tourism's room? I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I I ask for your really correct answer, because, as I said in my statement, I believe that the written answer to the question I asked you was not correct to me and to the Bulgarian citizens whose money you are actually spending.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u131	Bulgaria, Mr. Prodanov. Mrs. Nikolova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u132	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Prodanov, in relation to the questions raised so, with my answer I have provided duly information which fully corresponds to the truth and the factual situation. I confirm the answer that the Ministry of Tourism has not concluded contracts whose subject matter is furniture. As regards the contracts for construction and repair works concluded, I would reiterate that, for the period when I run the Ministry of Tourism, only one contract has been mentioned. The specific contract is for the development of an interior project together with its implementation, according to an offer submitted by the contractor for a meeting hall and the entrance space in the administrative building of the Ministry of Tourism, located in the city of Sofia, St. Sofia, No 1, according to the order regulated in the Public Procurement Act. The contract was concluded for a total amount of 29 thousand. 500 leva. excluding VAT in the case of the maximum specified art. 20, para. 4 t. 1 of the Law threshold of 50 thousand. lv. excluding VAT for this type of activity. You, I suppose, are well aware. However, I will allow myself to make it clear that the interior consists of three main elements: construction base without walls and ceiling, subject elements, furniture, technological equipment and functional processes, forming space and atmosphere in the room. In this sense is the said contract, which includes two phases, namely: phase 1 The first phase combines the following activities: photographing the room, proposal for interior solution and functional distribution, design of 3D image with specific proposals on decorative elements, finish of walls and floors, color solution. It is important to note that besides the meeting room itself, renovation and renovation activities include the Ministry's entry space in order to shape a uniform vision. The area of the conference room is 51 sq. m, the walls of the hall are 51 sq.m, the walls in the hall and in the entrance hall are 59 sq.m. m, and at the entrance space, 28 sq. m, or a total of nearly 150 sq. m. After the preparation of the interior project in line with the needs for the use of the meeting room, the second phase with the implementation of the project itself was realized. On the basis of art. 17, p. 10 and so on. 11 of the Development Rules of the Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry is responsible for the proper management, management and use of the property, as well as ensuring the maintenance of movable and immovable property. The Ministry of Tourism in its care of a good owner on the basis of the implementation of the statutory and contractual rights and obligations changed has initiated the implementation of the project. The equipment available before the renovation in the hall is old, registered off-balance as assets in use with a long past representative function. To conclude, I would like to draw attention to the following. The Executive project is fully appropriate in order to comply with the anti-epidemic measures according to the need for distance in the conditions of a pandemic, as well as with its active position in the work with representatives of the Diplomatic Corps in Bulgaria, representatives of business and heads of administrative bodies in search of opportunities for support of the tourism industry, which in turn requires all working and protocol meetings in the meeting room of the Ministry of Tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolova. Mr. Prodanov, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u134	Madam Minister, I specifically asked you to be correct in your answer. You must have misunderstood me, I even explained to you what furniture means and curtains are part of the furniture of a building. In this regard, since you do not know that you have entered into such a contract, I will tell you. Since August 18th, you have signed a contract to change curtains at the Ministry of Tourism in five offices. I'm very interested in this whole thing. Five rooms with curtains for 25,000. lv. The modest sum of $25,000. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, I admit I don't know anything about curtains, but I did some middle bill. 5 offices on 3 windows are 15 windows and 15 windows on 2 meters are 30 meters. I split 25,000. lv. I split by 30 meters and got 830 meters per linear meter for these curtains. And I started looking for.. I confess, as I said, I don't know about curtains, I've seen those from 15. 20 lv. Price up to 180 These are from 830 lv. At a linear meter, believe me, there may not be any in Versailles. Maybe if they find out about this price, they'll envy you! I think this is extremely incorrect. First of all, for the second time you don't answer me, you don't give me real answers to questions because I told you that you are, after all, a man who spends public funds, and in this regard I have a few questions: didn't you have a more reasonable price for these curtains when you thought you needed them? Don't you find it uncomfortable, given that there are 1400 tour guides and about 1000 tour operators and tour operators who have not received one penny for nine months, that you do so exclusively in my opinion incorrect, unjust and immoral and in any other way spending.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u135	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Nikolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u136	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Prodanov, I do not know what information you have, but if you are referring to a specific contract with the subject of furniture, I pay attention again because it was your asking that such a contract with the subject does not exist. The stubbornness you show with regard to these contracts leads me to the suspicion that you are referring to a specific contract of work. However, it is not subject to the furniture. The Ministry of Tourism has concluded a contract for production with a legal basis art. 258 of the Law on Obligations and Contracts and Subject-matter of Drying, Delivering and Mounting of Curtains and Cornises on Offices and in the Building of the Ministry of Tourism on the ground of a reasoned and reasoned proposal from the responsible directorate approved by the Secretary-General of the Ministry. There is no legal definition or legal definition of the concept of furniture, but as a matter of fact, it was necessary to understand that the furniture is the items necessary for life and work and, more precisely, the furniture. The lawyers of the office do not consider and interpret the subject of the probably and falsely quoted by you as a contract with the subject of the furniture. Furnishing would be chairs, tables, cabinets, floorings and others, but not curtains. Curtains or blinds are one of the details that shape the decorative working space of employees and help create a good working environment, ensuring that the necessary light is admitted and adequately protected from it. According to the proposed offer entered into the structure of the Ministry and the proposed conditions respectively, this contract was concluded with a legal basis. 258 of the S.A.P.D.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolova. Mr. Bonev, the mask!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u138	Yeah, yeah, yeah! Of course!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u139	Dear colleagues, here are the Minister of Agriculture and Food Mrs. Desislava Taneva and Mrs. Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, to give us information on the topic before, with which the Minister of Environment and Water introduced us. Honourable Members, we will interrupt parliamentary control for a little while. Mrs. Nikolova will wait. Mrs. Taneva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u140	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for the opportunity to be heard, and I would like to give an answer to these accusations and statements, which were presented by my colleague, Minister of Environment and Water, Mr Emil Dimitrov, at the beginning of your plenary session. First of all, I want to say that we are colleagues, we have always had direct communication, sometimes a little difficulty. My last conversation with him was Monday. I am extremely sorry that we have to enter this level of communication and that these communications, which have always been operational, take place only now in plenary. When I first found out that he had been sick, he was really upset. We had a very long conversation, perhaps over 50 minutes, was very affected in the beginning, in purely human terms, about the disease and about the care for its recovery. In the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry we always have many common topics in the sector, in the adoption of sectoral legislation, in the adoption of the Rural Development Programme, it is always agreed with the Ministry of Environment. That is, our two ministries, respectively, and the experts in individual directorates, are always involved in working groups when dealing with environmental and conservation issues. This collaboration has become much closer and now, at the present time, when we are preparing the new programme, when we need to meet the goals of the green deal, when we have much more ambitious environmental ambitions, and this work continues. This conversation was initiated by me because we have four topics that remain unresolved at the Ministry of the Environment, and I believe that on all subjects after the 50-minute conversation we still had a common vision of how to continue and I am extremely surprised by what I hear. First, on the occasion of allegations of unpresented schemes of irrigation systems of dams. The co-worker, Director of Irrigation Systems, assured us that 20 days ago they were provided this way. Nevertheless, the very next day at 9 a.m. she was at the Ministry with all the folders and documentations I really want everything to be presented very correctly. Besides that, the mayor of Burgas called me probably a long time ago, maybe three or four weeks ago, asking us to provide archive, available design documentation for another dam with the trend of whether it can be used to provide drinking water. His construction engineer, deputy mayor, came to the archive of one of the ministry's divisions. Everything that is available and available was presented. Secondly, with regard to the claims of war with MRRB. I've never heard such a thesis! In general, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry always has a rather different vision with the Ministry of Environment and Water, but not with MRDP. Moreover, there is a decision and a report from an operational meeting of the Council of Ministers of 13 October in which the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry has supported a solution for the water supply of Burgas. So everything that had to be done by our system to support a solution to these issues has been done. About the farm charges. That's very sad. A few months back, at the beginning of the summer season, the colleague himself urged through the media in connection with the drought that farmers should seek their own water sources for irrigation. Again, this can be taken a few months back from media participations. After many communications with the branch organizations, after meetings, an agreement was reached between us to initiate changes. After they were proposed, we held a joint expert meeting at the Ministry of Environment and Water, where I attended, where my colleague attended, and the experts of the two departments in this field. All amendments were not adopted. Everything they asked us to remove has been removed, except for the volume that can be used under a light regime for registered farmers outside urbanised territories. The introduced changes by MPs were eventually produced after several months of communication with non-governmental organizations in the sector and after this meeting in the Ministry of Interior. After all, this is the subject of a vote in the National Assembly. What do these changes say? Firstly, we need to take into account that, at the moment, measure 4.3 under the Rural Development Programme will rehabilitate and put into effect major 50 million channels. EUR and access to areas that can be irrigated will be increased and farmers that can be included in this system. Secondly, in relation to the preparation of the national recovery plan, the Ministry with the support of absolutely all branch organizations in this direction proposed to the Council of Ministers with representative Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev for the preparation of this plan and were at first reading adopted for the overall rehabilitation of state "Irrigation systems," as it had functioned best, with all the available technical documentation it had. I'm just pointing out a clamp, Romania will present the exact same project by Romania. I'm just saying that because we have similar problems in the end, because historically we have gone through the same political periods. And to return these amendments concern only opportunities for those registered farmers who do not have technical access to this entire irrigation system and there is one maximum volume in which this notification regime can be used. But if this is a problem in general for the general regime in order to alleviate it, which I believe there will be in no way different opinions in the sector, we have introduced administrative relief, including the use of electronic registers and documents that are publicly available... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u141	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u142	...not to be specifically requested. All this is done for the purpose of administrative... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u143	Anyone who doesn't want to hear this is free to leave the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u144	...a relief, but something else, but ultimately the will of the National Assembly. I would like to say that all these accusations that have been made are absolutely groundless and that this is a product, I say again, as a result of several months of discussions, including them, and many other proposed changes have been removed from this meeting. In conclusion, for other charges I can't think of right now, all the specifics we asked for, as we discussed on Monday: well, I've been told that everything has been presented, the coworker will come again at 9:00 a.m., but there was no one there. Security can confirm that. We need to talk to very concrete facts. Since we have a really good collegiate relationship, on Monday I spoke in purely human terms and there can be no threats. It's just unreal stuff. Yes, we are at a difficult time, a pandemic, yes, everyone is going through some trials, feelings perhaps, insufficient care for ourselves, but we still need to realise the responsibility of the positions we occupy, and we need to speak in a way, and talk in a way that results in and improves the environment for society. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u145	Thank you, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u146	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u147	I heard about the procedure, yeah. Here you go, Mr. Prodanov. Information will be given to Minister Avramova in a moment. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u148	Madam President, you feel, do you feel what Parliament is becoming today? Today Parliament is becoming...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u149	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u150	...in witness to the collapse of the wicked government of GERB. One minister comes in this morning and tells us what the real picture of today's government is. Then...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u151	What exactly do you have for me as a remark?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u152	Well, if you're not interrupting me, I'll let you know. Listen to me and you'll understand! An hour after him...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u153	Come on, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u154	...there's another minister coming from...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u155	Not like this!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u156	I'm just explaining what my motives are for the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u157	You can make a proper and cultural remark. Let's hear it!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u158	I'm explaining the reasons for the procedure, Madam President. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] An hour later, the other minister comes to defend the government's honor. Don't you feel that the one who has to coordinate the actions of... [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator's talking to off microphones. Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u159	Thank you, thank you! [[The speaker keeps talking on off microphones.]] What can you say? [[The speaker keeps talking on off microphones.]] In the House of the National Assembly any minister can come and give information whenever he wants. [[The speaker keeps talking on off microphones.]] There are procedures in the Rules how you can invite the Prime Minister or the Ministers to come and give you information. [[The speaker continues to speak on off microphones. Replies from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u160	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u161	What procedure, Mr. Yordanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u162	You'll hear.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u163	Read the rules. Read the rules! [[Replications between Vice-President Valeri Simeonov and MP Hristo Prodanov.]] Mr. Simeonov, don't argue with the MPs! I'm in charge of the hearing right now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u164	With regard to your admission and the leadership of the National Assembly hearing and the parliamentary dispute, it has become parliamentary, we want a procedure for hearing the Prime Minister about the issues raised by his ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u165	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. There's no such procedure. You can't ask for a hearing from the National Assembly. There's a procedure in the Rules. Read this rulebook. Mrs. Avramova, please give us the information you wish to present. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Once again, every minister has the right to come and take the floor at any time when the National Assembly is sitting. Here you are, Mrs Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u166	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In relation to the statement made today by the minister of the coalition government, unlike Minister Taneva, I do not accept it as an accusation, but rather I accept his statement in the National Assembly as chaotic reasoning thrown into the public domain and I will try to prove my statement to you. Let's start with the Dam Kamchia. The Dam is powered by a large part of Eastern Bulgaria. We all know that it powers both major cities of Burgas and Varna. In connection with the reduced volume of water at the dam in October, I submitted to the Council of Ministers a report at an operational meeting, in which I suggested that the dams of Poroy. The report also identified basic measures which should be implemented for the purpose of its use for drinking water, such as: analysis, water quality studies, investment projects, design and establishment of a sanitary zone and others which are necessary to enable these two dams to be used for drinking-bit needs. I will allow myself to quote one text from this report, with which all of us who are in the government and in the ministries have a bearing on the switching of these two dams. In this report, there is one commitment which had to be implemented by the Minister for Environment and Water and the text reads: "In relation to the proposals made, the Ministry of Environment and Water should prepare an expert report on the need to implement such an approach. That is to say, in the master plans, which are drawn up by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works as reserve water sources, the dams are not present. In the regional pre-investment studies that have been conducted, these two dams are not referred to as dams to be included in the water supply of Burgas. What Minister Dimitrov has already said in the public space several times is about switching these two dams to the water system of Burgas. Yes, we agree, and I have submitted such a report, but to give 60 million. lv. and build plumbing, build water towers, build pumping stations, so there has to be a good report. That is why the Council of Ministers adopted at its meeting that the Ministry of Environment and Waters, which are the principal of water management, which have experts who can produce such an expert report, must do so in order to justify the need to bind these two dams. The MPD doesn't have that kind of expertise. However, we have some doubts about the one dam is located only a few kilometers from the dam "Kamchia" and there is doubt about the fact that it will rain in one dam and there will be an inflow, and in the other it will not rain. All these doubts had to be refuted by the report of the Ministry of Environment and Water, which Minister Dimitrov conveniently forgot. However, even though this report should give us the basis and give us the security that these two dams should be bound to the water supply system of Burgas, despite the waiting of this expert report, we are working on the topic, and already the Water and Water Department of Burgas has conducted a survey with divers of the dams of Aheloy and Poroy, conducted a survey with mountaineers, prepared projects, requested by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry technical passports and projects, which are available so that we can ensure the whole process. The delivery of pipes is also being investigated. However, we have also prepared the possibility for the water holding to release these funds by transferring the shares of the water water supply to Burgas, to the water holding. However, without this report, we cannot spend 60 million. BGN, let us bind two dams, because tomorrow all of you, ladies and gentlemen, will ask us why you spent this money. And Minister Dimitrov will probably appear in the media to explain how he fills this dam or that dam. What I resent is that there are chaotic accusations in space from the National Assembly's stands. Who was opposed to saving Pernik from the water crisis? Nobody! The decision that was made to build the plumbing was the government's, and this plumbing saved Pernik. [[Applause from GERB.]] Should this plumbing, which is criticising Minister Dimitrov, be made to ask the Perniks? All of you, as a legislative authority, know that building facilities during a state of disaster, as announced in Pernik, is permissible under Bulgarian law. And all construction papers, I respect the Law on Construction in the Area: All construction papers can be assembled during the execution of urgent emergency and reconstruction works or after their execution and transmitted to the authority competent to issue the building permit. Minister Dimitrov probably doesn't know, but I'll tell you that the detailed planning is proceeding. It is announced, the deadline is until 19 December and then in the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works will be submitted for approval, and the project for issuing a building permit will be submitted as written in the Bulgarian legislation as an opportunity we have used to save Pernik from the water crisis. If Minister Dimitrov, who manages the waters in Bulgaria, believes that Burgas is in a dire situation and that this approach should be applied there, then there is a order and law under which this should happen. Why did Minister Dimitrov not submit to the Council of Ministers a proposal for a declaration of disaster in Burgas? Why does it frighten people from the National Assembly's stand and from the media in which there is participation? Let him turn to Burgas, who now worried and scared the people and say is there water in the dam because he manages the water in the dams in Bulgaria? Is there water in the dam? How long will this water last? What measures should be taken so that Burgas does not fall into a water crisis? Because what was done today is fear in the people of Burgas. We do not manage at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works the water in dams, but we think about how to secure the people and we already have an idea and we are working on it, although this is the work of the Ministry of Environment and Water. The Minister of Environment and Water issues the monthly schedules. The submission to Varna may be reduced, Varna may work for some time on the pumping mode from the deviation. We can reduce the use of the dam "Kamchia" and reverse 80% of the diversion "Kitka" in a pumping way and the rest of Kamchia to reduce the drinking from the dam "Kamchia" and have water for a longer period of time. We also foresee the possibility, as the people of Varna will now be worried that the water from the pumps is more expensive, we have provided for the possibility for the water to be compensated, to be supported, so that it can withstand the high cost of extraction...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u167	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u168	...through pumps and no problem with the cost of water in the water water supply in Varna. So while we are working on the topics that excite Bulgarian citizens, on the topics that we have the task of working and people to have water, some are practicing in theatrical productions. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] Another topic that was touched on today is the dam in Pernik. I strongly stress that the Minister of Environment and Water also hears that the implementation of activities that are on the dam is done by divers and they have ended 2018. We all remember when the crisis in Pernik was taking place. So the dam wasn't drained, the dam was renovated with divers. There are photos, there are videos and all the documentation for the repair of this dam has been transmitted to the District Prosecutor's Office Pernik, and to the National Security Agency (National Security Agency) in January 2020. I can't remember what other things we were accused of inaction, in action? Once again, we have secured the money, we are working on the accession of these two dams and we continue to wait for the report of the experts of the Environment and Waters, which report to justify the need to build a connection of these two dams with Burgas, so that we can safely spend the 60 million that Minister Dimitrov talked about. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Bulgarian citizens, the Ministry of Environment and Water will ensure that the two dams are bound if he gives this report on which we work. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works continues to carry out its duties conscientiously, as we have reacted in Pernik, so we react in Burgas. We have our ideas, we're working on them, so we can provide people with water without performing theatrical performances. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u169	Thank you, dear Minister. Procedure? In the manner of conduct, yes. Colleagues, please be quiet! Mr. Yankov has a procedure too. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u170	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! My procedure is for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u171	Of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u172	Since it was announced here just now that there was some theater, I don't know how someone's truth sounds theatrical or maybe it sounds comical, Madam President! [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u173	Colleagues, please hold! Wait, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u174	I recommend you call the Prime Minister who refuses to come to parliament, and recommend to him, Madam President, that he make a teambuilding of his government...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u175	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u176	If it has to be online.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u177	What's the procedure? Let's be serious! The subject is extremely serious, Mr. Genov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u178	It's on the subject, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u179	Yeah. By what I was wrong after...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u180	Explain to Mrs. Avramova that there was a 1990 drought. ...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u181	There's nothing to explain. I'm not Mrs. Avramova's teacher! Invite her outside, Mr. Genov, let's clear this up with Mrs. Avramova. I can't explain anything to anyone. I'm not a teacher! Tell me, what do you have as a remark to me?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u182	Explain at least to say who is the Deputy Minister and the other person, because here Minister Dimitrov said some positions, did not say... [[The President turns off the speaker's microphone.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u183	Mr. Genov, to me, if you have anything. Thank you. ... [[The speaker speaks with microphones off.]] Please don't insult a government minister! Mr. Genov, please! [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]] Please, Mr. Genov, please leave the stands! Mr. Dimitrov, please! Please, Mr. Iankov was before you. Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u184	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I am taking this opportunity to conduct a procedure. First, to announce how much time is increasing for parliamentary control...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u185	Of course, I'll tell you right away.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u186	...as ministers of agriculture and food and regional development have used up the time provided for parliamentary control. It is clear that with the statements we have heard that do not correspond to the statement of the Minister of Environment and Water, or will follow the resignation of one of the ministers, or will the National Assembly have to commit itself to the Commission of the National Council to establish facts, circumstances in relation to the various statements, or please be provided to me and to the Members of the National Assembly who are not members of a parliamentary group, a transcript of the statements of the Ministers, as the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria will obviously have to check the activities of the three ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u187	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. You know very well how you can get the stenogram. Stenograms are public, they are on the website of the National Assembly and within a few days each such information is uploaded. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky. Let me just say that by 23 minutes the parliamentary control meeting will be extended to 14.25 will be parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u188	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Ministers! Madam President, today's situation seems to be extreme, obviously something is happening in the country! Three ministers in an hour and a half, two tell us different things, tell us different things! [[Comments from GERB: "What is the procedure? "]] I'll say, wait two minutes. And you, colleagues from GERB, and we, colleagues from BSP, and everyone in this room - media, journalists, guests - do not know what is happening and what is going on?! My procedure, Madam President...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u189	Go ahead, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u190	...is to invite the Prime Minister as the person who named these ministers. I understand that you might be able to tell me: put it down. Art. 113 or under art. 53...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u191	No, I was going to tell you: tell me which member to do it by.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u192	The article that Mr. Dimitrov came on, the article that the ministers came on. Under the same article Mr. Borisov has the right to come to this hall, to inform the Bulgarian citizens, to inform the Bulgarian MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u193	Got it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u194	Don't, don't get so petty about procedures and rules. Something must be happening in the country! Invite the person on whom it depends either to dispel these doubts or to make the decision. Some people will probably have to leave the Council of Ministers, others will probably have to come, but he is the person who can say these things.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u195	I understand your procedure, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u196	My procedure is to come into contact and politely on behalf of our parliamentary group, from you to invite Mr. Boyko Borisov, Prime Minister of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u197	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. After Mr. Simeonov's procedure, we will continue with the questions to the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy. Mr. Simeonov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u198	Madam President, my procedure is similar to Mr. Svilenski's procedure, since yesterday there was a delay on a passenger train, please invite the station chief. [[Laughter, comments from GERB: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u199	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. It was fun in the gym, but let's just calm down and move on with...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u200	I want a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u201	Mr. Svilensky, you see I didn't even comment on what Mr. Simeonov said. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u202	Madam President, you are allowing in plenary a deputy of yours to compare the Prime Minister with the head of the station. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u203	Mr. Svilensky, let's finish this topic! Thank you. Asked by the MP Cornelia Ninova, Georgi Yordanov, Georgi Mihailov, Ilian Timchev, Desislav Taskov, Ivan Ibrishimov and Valentina Naydenova regarding the transformation of hospital care facilities into public enterprises. Here you are, Mr. Yordanov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u204	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen of ministers! Ms. Nikolova, it is very good that you are also the Minister of Health, because the issue is for you as Deputy Prime Minister, responsible, but mainly concerning the Minister of Health. As you know, with the amendments and additions to the Public Enterprises Act, medical institutions for hospital aid, state and municipal property are converted into public undertakings. In accordance with § 2, para. 1 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law The Council of Ministers should entrust the Agency for Public Enterprises and control the preparation of an analysis of the created special laws on the basis of art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Law, for state enterprises to clarify the nature of their activities, mainly commercial or public functions and policies. In accordance with § 2, para. 4 state-owned enterprises created by special laws on the basis of art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Law, which primarily perform public functions and policies, should be reorganised into administrative structures subject to the current regulations or included in the consolidated fiscal programme under art. 13, para. 4 or art. 171 of the Public Finance Act. With that in mind, our question to you has: has the Council of Ministers assigned the Agency for Public Enterprises and the monitoring of the above-mentioned analysis of hospital services, state and municipal property, in accordance with the Public Enterprises Act? What is your opinion on the activity that hospitals, state and municipal property, mainly public functions and policies, or mainly commercial activity, are performing which is essential in their transformation?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u205	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Mrs. Nikolova, come in for an answer. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u206	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Ninova, Mr. Yordanov, Mr. Mihailov, Mr. Timchev, Mr. Taskov, Mr. Ibrishimov, Mrs. Naydenova, by decision of the Council of Ministers No 483 of 16 July 2020, on the basis of § 2, para. 2 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Public Enterprises Act is entrusted to the Agency for Public Enterprises and control the preparation of analysis of the created by special laws on the basis of art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Law state-owned enterprises to clarify the nature of their activities mainly commercial or mainly public functions and policies. As shown above, the analysis to clarify the nature of the activities carried out applies only to state-owned enterprises established by special laws on the basis of art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Law and does not apply to medical establishments which are registered as commercial companies with shares and shares within the meaning of the Commercial Law. Currently, state-owned enterprises created by special laws and by legal basis under art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Law, there are 16 of them and there are no hospitals among them. The analysis of the created by special laws on the basis of art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Law State-owned enterprises to clarify the nature of their activities.. mostly commercial or mainly public functions and policies, covers and follows only 16 state-owned enterprises, and is irrelevant to medical institutions. The analysis is at a very advanced stage in its preparation and is about to be submitted by the Council of Ministers. Health as a basic right, including the provision of affordable medical care and free medical care by the state and their adequate funding, is established in the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in the Health Act and in the Health Insurance Act. The implementation of the State's commitment to providing access to hospital aid is carried out through the construction of a network of hospital care facilities on the territory of the country. State and municipal hospitals within the meaning of § 2 of the Additional provisions of the Law on Medical Institutions occupy a significant place in the national health system. Under the current legislation, medical institutions for hospital aid, state and municipal property are established by the State and municipalities under the Commercial Law or the Cooperative Act as commercial companies or cooperatives, and their specific functions, activities and financing are governed by the Law on Medical Institutions. Therefore, hospitals, state and municipal property are not public undertakings within the meaning of art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Law. They shall not be subject to the provisions of § 2, para. 2, para. 4 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Public Enterprises Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u207	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolova. Here you are, Mr. Yordanov, you have two minutes for two additional questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u208	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable ministers! You've given me a very specific answer, but you said that the analysis that has been commissioned has not been completed. I wouldn't agree with that determination because you're predicting the results of the analysis, which may be quite different from what you said. The problem that has arisen at the moment is the powers of the Minister of Health in relation to the management of hospital care institutions.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. We have the unfortunate experience, as an example I will give you the assignment of a task to public enterprises under the Law for a hospital in Plovdiv with insufficient funding and suddenly it turns out that the solution cannot be met and so on. In the end, there is a gap in administration between the Public Enterprises Agency and the control of the principal of which is the Minister of Economy and the Ministry of Health and in the case of a two-person office from two chairs in the middle. So my question is: when will this analysis be completed specifically, and in what way will the State assign to public undertakings tasks, and the Public Enterprises Act states that they should also be financed?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u209	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Madame Deputy Prime Minister, come in, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u210	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I use this case to stress, to note the fact that the main function of state and municipal hospital care institutions is to provide affordable and quality medical care for the country's population. Although they are created as traders, their activities are different from the activities carried out by the other operators, as the functions they perform are socially oriented and their main activity is the provision of medical services to the population and not the implementation of the most profitable commercial result for the company. Hospital care establishments shall carry out business after authorisation, and the subject of their activities must include only hospital care and they cannot carry out commercial transactions except for the needs of their medical activities and the care of patients. The activities of medical institutions, medical and other specialists working in them shall be carried out in compliance with the medical standards for the quality of medical care provided and the protection of the patient's rights. With regard to the analysis, once again, I stress that after the completion of the conciliation procedures, it is very soon to be submitted to the Council of Ministers for consideration and discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u211	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolova. Answering the question please, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u212	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! Obviously, I won't get an answer today. It is very interesting in your reply that they are created by so-called laws and you do not mention at all the Law on Hospitals, which has the title of Hospital Services. This has obviously not reached and I do not blame you for your competence, your expertise, but I would recommend you to meet. I would like to tell you that the way you treat hospitals and their powers, you can ask your colleague, the Minister of Health, because your conclusions and your attitude are quite leish.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u213	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. We continue with the next question to the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy and Minister of Tourism Mrs. Mariana Nikolova. The issue is from the National Representative Rumen Gechev on specific measures of the government in the period February "November 2020 on the collection of penalties in favour of the Bulgarian state due by "Key G Maritaim Shipping" AD.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u214	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Nikolova, ladies and gentlemen! My question is about the specific measures of the government in the period February "November 2020 on the collection of penalties in favour of the Bulgarian state due by "Kay G Maritaim Shipping" AD. Dear Mrs. Nikolova, the company "Key G Maritam Shipping" AD, which has purchased 70% of the capital of Parahodship "Bulgarian Sea Fleet" AD on 8 August 2008, continues to fail to fulfil its obligation to the Bulgarian state and not to pay the calculated penalties under the privatisation contract of more than 53 million. lv. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: what concrete steps has the Bulgarian government taken in the period February 2020 to collect due penalties from the outstanding buyer? What specific public procurement and budget support have the buyer's company received under the stated privatisation contract, as well as related companies? What legislative and regulatory measures have you taken so that companies due to penalties to the state are not allowed to public procurement and budgetary aid? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u215	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Mrs. Nikolova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u216	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gechev, in December 2019 the Agency for Public Enterprises and Control on the grounds of the arbitration clause laid down in the privatisation agreement brought before the Court of Arbitration at the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry a judgmental action against the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry against the buyer and guarantor. The amount of the penalty applied to the Court of Arbitration at BCCI is 53 million. Ninety-four thousand. BGN 290, including principal and interest. On the basis of the action brought by the Agency, Case No 173 of 2019 on the description of the Court of Arbitration. On 17 January 2020, the defendants received a reply to the application and, within the time limit laid down by the Court of Arbitration at the BCCI on 17 February 2020, the Agency submitted its opinion in response to the lodged reply to the application. In the meantime, by application of 12 February 2020, the Agency withdrew the selection of the arbitrator designated by it with a view to establishing, following the application, the existence of circumstances which call into question the impartiality of the arbitrator designated by the Agency. By that application the Agency provided the President of the Court of Arbitration with the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry with the choice and appointment of an arbitrator on the basis of art. 14, para. 5 of the Rules of the Court of Arbitration at the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. By order of 4 March 2020, the President of the Court of Arbitration at the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry ordered the Vice-President of the Court of Arbitration at the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry to appoint a professional arbitrator instead of the Agency. In the light of that order, the Agency has expressed its opinion that the delegation of the rights on the occasion of the appointment of an arbitrator by the President of the Vice-President is unlawful. By a resolution of 3 April 2020, the Court of Arbitration ruled on the opinion of the Agency and ruled that the Vice-President of the Court of Arbitration at the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry may be authorised by having already appointed an arbitrator of the party to the plaintiff, namely Arbiter Anna Staneva. Since the arbitrators of the parties have not reached agreement on the Chair of the decisive body, the latter has been appointed by the Vice-President of the Arbitration Court by the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry as of 15 April 2020. The appointed President of the Service shall be the arbitrator Ruzha Ivanova. By application of 16 April 2020, the defendant in the case "Key G Maritaim Shipping" AD has submitted a request for an arbiter Anna Staneva, notified to the Agency on 8 May 2020. The Agency submitted its opinion on the request for a reprieve within the time limit set by the Court of Arbitration on 22 May 2020. On 1 July 2020, the Agency asked for a reprieve of the defendants' Ombudsman, Mr. Andrey Delchev. By order of 31 July 2020, which was notified to us on 7 August 2020, the determining authority in the composition of Anna Staneva, Andrey Delchev and President Ruza Ivanova left without consideration and without respect the requests for an arbiter Anna Staneva and arbiter Andrey Delchev without consideration. On 10 August 2020, within the statutory deadline, the Agency lodged a private complaint before the Sofia City Court against that order, requesting the suspension of the arbitration proceedings. Case 15-12/2020 under the description of the Sofia City Court, Chamber of Commerce, VI By decision of 1 October 2020, the court left the Agency's appeal without respect and the decision was final. By application dated 13 October 2020, the Agency requested the decisive authority to reopen the proceedings in Case No 173/2019. On a complaint against the order of the Arbitral Tribunal of 31 July, deposited before the Sofia City Court by the defendant, K. J. Maritaim Shipping.A.D., case 15-39 has been initiated since 2020, according to the description of the Sofia City Court, the Chamber of Commerce, VI "X" Chamber. On the complaint lodged, the Agency submitted an opinion on 18 November 2020. Following the final decision in that case, the arbitration proceedings should continue in the recovery phase. In parallel with the arbitrage proceedings described, the proceedings for the annulment of the security granted to the Agency for the claim by imposing a claim on the shares and shares in the capital of the Paramition of Bulgaria's fleet and the BFF Port Burgas Ltd. and the prohibition of property of Hadvans Properties in Sofia are developed in parallel with the proceedings described by the guarantor. On 21 February 2020, the Agency received a communication from the Sofia City Court of Private Civil Case No 15-531 of 2019, the Second Board of Appeal, which sent for a reply an application for annulment of the collateral granted by a final decision for the benefit of the Agency on the basis of art. 402 GPC. On 21 February 2020, the Agency submitted an objection to the application for annulment, arguing that it was inadmissible and unfounded. By order in the case of 26 February 2020, the Sofia City Court left the application for annulment without respect and the order given was appealed by a private appeal by "Advans Properties" Ltd before the Sofia Court of Appeal. A reply from the Agency to the private complaint was submitted on 18 May 2020. A private civil case 14-90 has been initiated on the basis of the description of the Sofia Court of Appeal, XVth Chamber. By order of 13 July 2020, the case was scheduled at an open court hearing to collect evidence concerning the over-security alleged by the applicant, and a judicial and economic expertise was also appointed with the task of assessing the property premises subject to the security granted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u217	Thank you. You've been thorough, though you've exceeded your time a little. Mr. Gechev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u218	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Nikolova, you allow yourself the luxury of not answering my questions. I asked you how so the Bulgarian state allows to be played by a group of people and a major shareholder, who owes 53 million plus interest rates, must already be 54, to the Bulgarian state, you allow its companies to participate in public procurement and receive new tens and hundreds of millions?! What kind of country is this?! Aren't you going to take action? How will you, members of the cabinet, attend public events with this person, attend proms at one table, provided that he owes the Bulgarians 53 million when we do not have ambulances?! Where are you, I'd say?! You didn't answer those questions! You haven't done anything, and here other institutions will have to be interested in why, because there are some reasons for that. You are personally responsible for the Privatization Agency. How is it that you here report that the Privatization Agency, the state, withdraws its representative from the Court of Arbitration. Why? To be appointed to serve! How is it, Ms. Nikolova, that the Bulgarian state refuses to determine who to protect it? You're giving this right to someone else. What about the guy who owes 53 million, maybe he'll find a million dollars to hire a quarterback?! What do you think? How do you respond, the Bulgarian state gave up a defender that we choose and give to others? In addition, you should know that the European Court of Justice has ruled that, in the case of the interest of the Member States of the European Union, matters are settled in court and not in the Arbitration of some business association. But anyway, you've given up on our representative with some ridiculous arguments. I've met...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u219	Your time is up, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u220	...that she had some publications in some magazine. This is where I burst into a stormy laugh. You've given up on a government representative.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u221	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u222	And secondly, why are you letting this guy run government money when he owes us?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u223	Thank you, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u224	And I conclude with that from now on, and I told you before... [[The President turns off the microphones. The MP continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u225	Thank you. I haven't heard such a detailed answer in a long time, but you have the right to disagree. You expressed it with a lot of extreme political qualifications, in my opinion, but it is your right. Mrs. Nikolova, the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u226	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gechev, I strongly object. I would like to assure you that all the rules regarding judicial action to protect the public interest in the proceedings are strictly followed, and I personally control this issue. I would also like to further inform you about the development of procedures in the last two or three months. On 30 July 2020, the Agency deposited in the last case a request for a reprieve of the President of the Chamber. Judge Daniela Doncheva due to doubt about its impartiality. The same was held at an open hearing in the case held on 3 August 2020. A number of applications and opinions have been submitted in the case, reflecting the Agency's arguments on the admissibility and unfoundedness of the proceedings and the collection of evidence of facts other than those referred to in art. 402, para. 2 of the GPC. The conclusion of the initial examination was challenged entirely by the Agency and the composition of the case allowed the appointment of a triple forensic and economic expertise, the conclusion of which was the hearing at an open hearing held on 12 October 2020. The case was scheduled for 9 December 2020. It should be pointed out that the conclusion of that expert report indicates that the persons concerned have found that one of the buildings covered by the security admitted, namely the administrative building with the CPC 3680 sq. M, has been destroyed after the imposition of the lien. In this regard and due to the conditions laid down in the Law, on 21 October 2020, the Agency issued an alert to the Sofia District Prosecutor's Office requesting verification of the existence of unlawful conduct in connection with the destruction of the prohibited property for the benefit of the Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u227	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolova. If you'll excuse me, one copy of the material you brought out will remain here for me personally. Thank you. You can prepare a copy for Mr. Gechev as well. We're done with the questions for Mrs. Mariana Nikolova. Thank you and have a good day! The next questions are to the Minister of Health Mr. Kostadin Angelov. The first question is from the National Representative Georgi Yordanov and Ilian Timchev on the activities of hospital care institutions in public enterprises under the conditions of a pandemic. Mr. Yordanov, I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u228	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, we will continue the question that I have just asked. We have received an answer that makes it easier for me now to ask you the question slightly adapted. You know that we have had conversations with you on this topic, that a slight dissonance is being created, and it is not so light, thanks to the responsibility of the directors of hospital care facilities for subordination and receiving tasks. But anyway, according to what we accept as new orders for them, you know that you can assign them public tasks if you are ordered by the Council of Ministers. However, these tasks must be entrusted with the appropriate secured funding and that the funds must be spent under the Public Enterprises Act. In this regard, my question to you is: what is your practice, because my information and my analysis, which I do, is that nothing has changed about the attitude, and it should not change in times of crisis, but anyway, this is a violation of another law, along with many that are not respected on the basis of dealing with the pandemic? I would like to add something that is not in the written question to you: why weren't the necessary funds provided for the hospital in Plovdiv for St. Mina in Plovdiv the only kind of hospital in the country widely advertised by the PR of the Council of Ministers and not only by the Council of Ministers, and it had to come to these scandalous things that are happening today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u229	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. The last question is quite specific and it is possible that the minister does not have accurate information. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u230	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Associate Professor Yordanov and Dr. Timchev, under the current legislation the medical institutions for hospital care are established by the state and municipalities as commercial companies or cooperatives and operate after obtaining permission. The subject of their activity explicitly includes the implementation of hospital care. CoVID-19 is an infectious disease caused by severe respiratory syndrome coronavirus SARS CoV-2. It is a case of an infectious disease, given by the orders of the Minister of Health of the hospitals are related to the activity they carry out, according to their statutory purpose, namely the implementation of hospital care. In accordance with art. 7 of the Law on Public Enterprises, the latter may be entrusted with public service obligations or for the fulfilment of public policy objectives by the authorities exercising the rights of the State or the municipality within the limits of their competences, or by order determined by law. The obligations shall be specified by reference to the public undertaking, the content of the obligation, the period and the conditions under which it should be met and other conditions, if any. According to the Rules for the Implementation of the Public Enterprises Act, the first policy for the participation of the State in public undertakings is adopted by 31 December 2020. To this effect, the Law on public undertakings provides an optimal period within which the procedures and mechanisms introduced by it, one of which is the mechanism referred to by you for the award of public service obligations or for the fulfilment of public policy objectives. Currently, in the field of health, the relevant activities are carried out in accordance with the procedure laid down in the basic laws in force for the sphere, namely the Law on Medical Institutions, the Health Insurance Act and the Health Act. The measures introduced by the Minister of Health in the context of an exceptional epidemic situation concern all hospitals, regardless of the form of their property, and not only those which are public undertakings within the meaning of the Public Enterprises Act. The interests of society in the current pandemic environment require joint action, and all medical institutions are obliged to interact with the resources at their disposal. In conclusion, I would like to point out that guidelines on the application of the Law on Public Enterprises under § 4 of the Supplementary provision of the Law give the Agency for Public Enterprises and Control, and under art. 51, para. 1 of the Law on Legislative Acts compulsory interpretation of the regulation gives the authority that issued it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u231	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. A line? Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u232	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, you are extremely correct and did not allow yourself to take a substantial view of what is going on. I just want to say to you that with the newly adopted budget of the Health Insurance Fund, in the transitional provisions, a large part of the powers of your staff, to you and to your head of the Ministry, are entrusted to the regional managers, to the Regional Directors of Regional Health Inspections and Directors of Regional Health Insurance Fund to carry out substantial changes in the structure, to issue orders to make substantial changes in the structure of hospital care facilities, to punish them until they agree to this. However, there is nowhere to finance what they are assigning, whether these hospitals have the capacity to do so. The idea with which I ask you this question, and the line to you is, I believe that you should centrally manage the health system, imperatively, I would say, and transfer duties and responsibilities to the structures of the local authorities that are not ready, or to the structure of other enterprises, such as the Agency for Public Enterprises and Control, in my opinion, only bring dissonance to the management of the state machine, if I may say so, at the time of the pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u233	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Mr. Minister, you have the right to the back of your head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u234	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Associate Professor Yordanov, I am familiar with the changes adopted by the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund, they are absolutely synchronized. The Ministry of Health is working extremely actively and synchronized with all the authorities of the state, including the regional governors who chair the district seats, as well as with the directors of the RGI, who are directly subordinate to the Minister of Health. In this regard, I would like to point out that the changes made will enable the Minister of Health through the regional managers and through the directors of regional health inspections to carry out the single state policy for dealing with the situation. And with regard to the question that you are asking for funding, I would like to point out that the funds for financing all activities are available both under the budget of the Ministry of Health and in all the hospitals in the country that receive funds from the National Health Insurance Fund, regardless of the volume of activity they carry out. You know that the financing mechanism for medical institutions is 85% of the established monthly forecast budgets of medical institutions according to methodology, and in cases where medical institutions prove a higher cost above that, the Supervisory Board decides to finance their activities up to 100%, so there is no shortage. This is about the National Health Insurance Fund. With regard to the Ministry of Health, there are several mechanisms which are additional to providing funding for medical establishments under both Ordinance No 3 and the provision of state budget targets adopted by the Council of Ministers in November, providing additional funds of 50 million. lv. The Ministry of Health is also a beneficiary and provides by centrally purchasing additional quantities of personal protective equipment, disinfectants, consumables, preparations, including Remdesivir, as well as providing additional equipment for equipment to all the country's transfusion centres for providing recovalescent plasma. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u235	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is from the National Representative Manol Genov on the participation of the Municipality of Asenovgrad in the Investment Project BG16RFOP001-4.001-0001 Mr. Genov, I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u236	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, the Ministry of Health is implementing an investment project for full modernisation of the emergency assistance system in the country. Asenovgrad Municipality is included in this project and has for this purpose provided the Ministry of Health with the Treaty establishing a free right to use part of real estate. He has followed a technical project for a future new base of emergency aid in Asenovgrad, a construction permit of 21 August 2018. On 19 October 2020, you send a letter to the mayor of Asenovgrad, Hristo Grudev, after you have found out in another order and not from the Municipality of Asenovgrad, that the areas have already been used in 2020 for hospital housing. In your letter, you insist that the premises be released because they start activities on the emergency aid project. On 28 October 2020, the Municipal Council of Asenovgrad, on a proposal from the Mayor's team, decided that the Municipality should leave the Emergency Aid project in order not to have to release the Kozit compartment. On this occasion, my question to you is as follows: what will be the consequences for the future of emergency aid in Asenovgrad and for the access of the local population to it, after the emergency care branch in the town of Asenovgrad has virtually not existed because of the failure to meet medical standards of urgency? Have you been informed by the Mayor of the Municipality of Asenovgrad that by decision of March 2020, the Municipal Council on the same place, already provided to the Ministry of Health for Emergency Aid, is a ward for a species of patients? Have they been looking for options for the Municipality of Asenovgrad to provide another property for emergency assistance yet, given the obvious inability to empty these premises at the moment? Will the programme bear any financial corrections that will not be implemented one of the future emergency aid centres after the Municipality of Asenovgrad leaves it on the move and who bears the liabilities of these actions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u237	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u238	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Genov, I will answer the question which has been formulated in writing next to me. It's considerably shorter. You also added a few additional questions that I cannot answer at the moment. As regards the Ministry of Health and the Investment Project to support the development of the Emergency Aid System, yes, the project's total budget is 163 million. 897 thousand. BGN 815.62. and its implementation period shall be 23 October 2021. On the territory of the district of Plovdiv one of the sites of intervention under the Project is the Emergency Medical Medicine Philial (FSMP) - the town of Asenovgrad, and for this purpose are designated premises with a contract for establishing a free management right on part of the real estate private municipal property with No RD 06-67 from 3 May 2017, namely nine rooms with a total area of 341 sq. m, located at the first stage in Polyclinical base, a new annex to the Municipal Hospital of Asenovgrad. In the meantime, the Ministry of Health was informed by the director of CSM Plovdiv, Dr. Stoynev, by letter saying that in the above-mentioned premises a new ward was built in the Hospital "Asenovgrad," for the needs of the treatment of patients with COVID-19. In this regard, with this information, the Ministry of Health sent a letter on 19 October to the mayor of Asenovgrad Dr. Grudev in order to clarify the situation and request the municipality to take action to find other premises in the territory of the Hospital - Asenovgrad, suitable for the treatment of wards for patients with COVID-19. In response to our letter, the mayor of the Municipality of Asenovgrad informed us that at the beginning of the outbreak of COVID-19 in the country, Asenovgrad Municipality was faced with the need to build in a very urgent order a specialized ward in the municipal hospital, suitable for the treatment of patients with COVID-19 to meet the needs of this type of treatment of the residents of the municipality, as well as the neighbouring municipalities of Sadovo, Parvomay and Lucky. Asenovgrad Hospital is the only one in the city and the population that is served by it is more than 110 thousand. people from the four municipalities. For this purpose, funds have been allocated for the repair of premises and the purchase of medical equipment. By the letter referred to above, the mayor of Asenovgrad Municipality also informed us that in connection with the implementation of the Project for modernization of the branch, the Center for Emergency Medicine (CSM) in the city has taken measures to provide again for the Ministry of Health of other premises in the building of the municipal hospital in the town of Asenovgrad, meeting the requirements of the medical standard for emergency medicine. In this way, the reconstruction and repair activities of these premises will be able to be organised as required by the Project. The new premises will be of identical size and purpose as the previous ones, and the costs incurred by the Ministry of Health for a new investment project for the site will be at the expense of the Municipality of Asenovgrad. In this regard, the experts from the Ministry of Health will visit within the next week the Municipality of Asenovgrad to specify the necessary details in relation to the preparation of the materials that will be submitted to a meeting of the Municipal Council of the Municipality of Asenovgrad, planned for the holding of 16 December 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u239	Thank you. Mr. Genov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u240	Dear Minister Angelov, the big investment project for the introduction of emergency assistance in our country has great ambitions and this is good. The visible part of everything realized so far for two years since the start of the project, however, is reduced to buying ambulances. This is evident from official information about the implementation of this project, uploaded on the website of the Ministry of Health. It is there that we see that for the entire year 2019 there is not a single piece of information on the project, and for the whole 2020 exactly two news: for delivery of 20 plus 28 more equipped ambulances. That's nice, but I don't think that's enough. It's imperative that you give us information about something else. Do you know what the state is and how 174 branches function to the emergency services centers...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u241	Mrs. Yankova, put on your mask, these young people around you... Mrs. Yankova, put on your mask, please! You'll infect these girls around you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u242	...in the moment of the pandemic? These are the emergency stations outside the district cities. Do you know what state emergency assistance looks like in Asenovgrad, which is the subject of my main question? And what kind of emergency services, as a team on site and equipment, can patients rely on if they don't have time to get to the district center? Do you know how many other affiliates there are that are in similar condition? Are there any other municipalities in whose territories this project should have branches of emergency aid, but on the move they have terminated their contracts with the Ministry of Health? If there are any, it'll probably slow the project down. By what measures, as we have seen here from the letter you sent, the Ministry reacted adequately and normally? And in this sense is the last clarification I expect from you: do the Ministry and municipal authorities bear responsibility for the fact that with the termination of such contracts for providing premises for affiliates the entire national emergency assistance project is compromised? More importantly: are dozens of Bulgarian citizens deprived of fast access...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u243	Get it over with!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u244	...to quality emergency services that meet all standards? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u245	Thank you. Minister, this fan of questions...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u246	There were questions that came from patients.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u247	Yeah. In line with so many additional questions?! If you're ready, you can answer some of them in your backhole.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u248	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I have no concerns about the implementation of the Project. In a few moments there is another question from a group of MPs there I will give full clarity about all the actions taken on the implementation of the project. On the contrary, all procedures related to construction, copyright supervision and construction supervision have been announced. They run according to the plan. Contracts are made, the constructions of the individual branches of emergency medical care in individual cities begin, as well as the repair of the wards, as set out in the Project. We have no data on other municipalities that have taken the same type of action as the municipality of Asenovgrad, and we have no worries that the project will not be implemented in time or will not be implemented in the desired volume, as is set by the start of the project.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u249	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is from the MPs Veska Nencheva and Georgi Yordanov on municipal healthcare in the context of a health crisis caused by COVID-19. Mr. Yordanov or who? Here you go, Ms. Nencheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u250	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Members of Parliament! Dear Minister, the CIVID-19 crisis has further highlighted the screaming chaos in the health system. Much of the municipal hospitals are in a miserable state no longer just from the material base's point of view, from the lack of doctors, nurses and nurses. For this, the MPs of BSP are repeatedly alarmed by the parliamentary tribune. At the beginning of the Kovid crisis most municipal hospitals found their own salvation through donations of disinfectants, protective masks, equipment made by people living in the respective municipalities. MHAT Dr. Kiro Popov. The town of Karlovo was no exception. Appropriate and rapid support from the state was lacking once again. Immediately after the introduction of the emergency situation we asked a question to the Minister of Health? Then, Mr. Ananiev, with what means did the Ministry of Health provide for the hospital in Karlovo, as only defined outside the city of Plovdiv, and what measures did the Ministry take to help the hospital? Then, as of 27 March 2019, the Minister of Health responded, we understand that for the hospital in Karlovo, 500 surgical masks, 20 respiratory masks, 1000 safety glasses, 200 safety overalls and others, and, notice, disclosure of a donation account to assist medical facilities for the treatment of patients with COVID-19. A few months later, we were hit by a second wave of an even larger pandemic. Today again we have to go back to the same questions, because problems multiply, lives are lost, and you are unable to find a solution. We asked the question on November 10th. Since then, a lot of events have happened, and, yes, we know that the hospital is a municipal...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u251	The question!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u252	...so we wouldn't want to comment on what was done or didn't run out of local government. It will also give its answers elsewhere and another time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u253	Ask the question, Ms. Nencheva, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u254	I'm asking the question. Transferring the ball with responsibilities will not help patients in the area or doctors, nurses and nurses. Our question is: do municipal hospitals have readiness with material base and health staff to take over the load from the second wave of the health crisis, and what is this readiness? With what the Ministry of Health helps the activities of the small staff in the infectious ward of the municipal hospital in Karlovo and the newly discovered housing department in the hospital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u255	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u256	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Ms. Nencheva and Associate Professor Yordanov, immediately after the announcement of the state of emergency in March this year the government's conditions were focused mainly on actions to support the hospital sector in dealing with the epidemic situation. First, amendments and additions to the National Framework Treaty on Medical Activities for 2020. 2022, and in this national framework contract to compensate reduced volumes of hospital activity during the epidemiological situation were increased the prices of all clinical pathways by 10% and a methodology for covering the values of the CIVID-19 tests was approved. This increase will also have a sustainable character in the next 2021? The payments by the National Health Insurance Fund for hospital care of municipal hospitals according to reported data on 30 September 2020 amounted to 234 million. BGN, including 12.7 million lv. to work under adverse conditions. The funding provided to municipal hospitals for the nine months of 2020 by the National Health Insurance Fund was increased by 8% compared to the same period last year, although the volume of the activities carried out decreased by 12%. Second, amendment and supplement of Decree No 3 of the Ministry of Health for medical activities outside the scope of the Health Insurance Act. In the hospital sector, including municipal hospitals there are significant additional funds from the budget of the Ministry of Health. By a decree of the Council of Ministers, additional expenditure on the budget of the Ministry of Health for the subsidization of these hospitals amounted to 6 million. lv. As a result, funds totaling 36,7 million were provided for hospitals in remote and difficult-to-reach areas under the budget of the Ministry of Health for 2020. BGN, including for MHAT, Karlovo, 679 thousand respectively. £390. In order to maintain the readiness of the structures for the treatment of infectious diseases under the budget of the Ministry of Health, additional funds of 9.6 million were provided, and for the Hospital of Karlovo, a contract was drawn up to finance the Department of Infectious Diseases for the period 11 August "December 31," amounting to approximately 150 thousand. lv. Given the rapid deterioration of the epidemic situation in the last month and the need to reorganise the health system to meet the increasing needs of hospital care with PMS No 30-07 from 10 November, an additional 50 million were approved. lv. to finance hospitals that will provide more than 50% of their bed capacity for the treatment of patients with COVID. The funds will be provided as subsidies for hospital aid for the month of November "December," according to Decree No 3. For unforeseen and urgent costs to address the consequences of the PMS crisis No 40 of 8 March 2020 under the budget of the Ministry of Health, 7 million have been provided. lv. for an effective response to the created...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u257	Get it over with, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u258	...an epidemic situation. I'll keep going.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u259	Like a doppelganger? Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u260	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u261	Ms. Nencheva or Mr. Yordanov, would you like a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u262	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! Let's save time and concentrate on the hospital Dr. Kiro Popov. A few weeks ago, the district governor of the town of Plovdiv requested the resignation of the director of the hospital Dr. Pelev, but the mayor of the municipality disagreed. What's this about? Karlovo Hospital serves between 70 and 90 thousand people as much as a small area. It does not have emergency rooms because you know very well that emergency rooms are the structure of district hospitals and are financed according to a methodology by the Ministry of Health. At the same time, Carlov Municipality is 60 km away. The remote points, such as the town of Klisura, about 10 km from the city of Plovdiv and the patients with COVID, which are driven in medium and heavy condition, should be refined in an emergency room, that is to say they must travel two hours to the city of Plovdiv, which is practically impossible. Then we have the resources of Karlovo Hospital. But I repeat, Karlovo Hospital does not have an emergency room. She has a reception office that should only serve the needs of Karlovo Hospital. And here the scandal was, which you as the Ministry did not intervene, to provide enough personnel and resources for the formation of an emergency ward in the context of a crisis with a pandemic, for the hospital Dr. Kiro Popov. The emergency department of the University Hospital is impossible for St. George in Plovdiv to assume this function due to the geographical distance of things. The only infectiousist in Karlovo refused to serve an emergency cabinet for the patients with the Kovid and the infectious separated, so here people also hoped the administration of the Carlov Municipality of your help with the promises of secondment of fellow medics, which did not happen. Therefore, my specific question is: how can we help our colleagues from the hospital... Dr. Kiro Popov.................... Karlovo...................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u263	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Mr. Angelov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u264	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Associate Professor Yordanov, it is not true that it did not happen, and there are currently sent medical students and interns to assist the work of the infectious ward in the hospital in the way the commitment of the district governor of the city of Plovdiv was made. The additional measures taken by the government in this complex situation are as follows: Order No 40 of 8 March 2020 on the budget of the Ministry of Health provided 7 million. lv. for an effective response to the set epidemic environment. According to these funds, the following quantities of personal protective equipment are provided for free: 3800 single masks; 2270 specialized medical masks; 1185 single-use protective clothing; 90 jumpsuits; 1000 calsuns; 1108 number of safety glasses and helmets; 250 liters of alcohol and 120 liters of disinfectants. The next measure with grant funding under the project "Support of employees in the healthcare system" are the so-called 1000 BGN. For the first line, a total of 200 million were provided. lv. for additional remuneration of medical professionals at risk of infection, and from these funds funding is also provided to 57 municipal hospitals for hospital care. By September, additional funds of 10.6 million were paid to the first-line staff working in municipal hospitals. lv. For the month of October 2020, although the reported documents have not yet been received, an advance payment has been made to the staff of municipal hospitals of 8,6 million. lv. According to the reported documents until September this project was provided funding to the hospital "Doctor Kiro Popov" Ltd. of Karlovo, amounting to 225 thousand. BGN and advance for October more 154 thousand respectively. BGN, or a total of 379 thousand. lv. For the hospital in Karlovo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u265	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u266	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u267	Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u268	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! My procedure relates to the request made by us to hear the Prime Minister, with his conflicting information from members of the Council of Ministers concerning the danger of a major water crisis in Bulgaria. Since Ms. Karayancheva has been claiming that the procedure has not been introduced into the Ministry of Industry, I would like to inform you that 40 minutes ago this procedure was introduced on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. So make sure that Prime Minister Boyko Borisov comes here and explains, is heard, of course, about what is happening, and what we heard from Minister Dimitrov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u269	Thank you. I don't see the point in this procedure. It can be implemented after checking the documents you have imported. If it's okay and it's okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u270	Of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u271	Yeah, okay. Do you have evidence?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u272	There is.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u273	We are not going to have a dialogue here, but that is the order you are bringing to the Office. It's okay. It's scheduled, but so far I don't have that information except for your assurance. We continue with the question by the MPs Krasimir Yankov, Nikolai Ivanov, Lallo Kirilov, Valeri Zablyanov, Dimitar Stoyanov, Georgi Andreyev and Chavdar Velinov concerning the investment project.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u274	We'll get it for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u275	Now, are you offended that I don't believe you? I believe you, but there must be a document.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u276	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is about an investment project to support the development of the emergency medical care system. Dear Minister, at what stage is the implementation of an investment project supporting the development of the emergency medical care system under a direct grant procedure for regional health infrastructure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u277	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Angelov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u278	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Before I answer the question, I would like to say that I have just spoken with the mayor of Burgas "there is no danger of a water crisis in the city of Bourgas. I don't know who, what, and why is it that all the necessary organizational and financial measures are taken.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u279	Are you answering a question or making a statement as a minister that has nothing to do with parliamentary control?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u280	It's about people's health. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. The project "Support for the development of the emergency medical care system" financed by Operational Programme "Regions in Growth" has a total budget of 163 million. 897 thousand. BGN 815.62. The implementation period is 23 October 2021. Four contracts for the delivery, installation and commissioning of medical equipment and specialized medical equipment for the needs of all emergency aid structures included in the project's scope have been concluded under the Project. The supplies on the three of the contracts are complete. The implementation of the fourth contract was also launched for the delivery of non-diagnostic medical equipment. Currently in implementation of the project are announced and the procedures for selection of performers in the other main activities of the project are being carried out. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, seven procedures have been launched under the Law for the selection of contractors for construction works for the emergency rooms of the 34 hospitals included in the Project. It is planned in December to start construction of the sites from the extra-hospital structures of emergency aid.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u281	Mr. Bonev, put on your mask. [[Replys from MP Lyubomir Bonev.]] You can't talk without a mask. You can infect them.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u282	I highly doubt it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u283	You may doubt, however, there is an order from the minister who is currently looking at you and giving me a sign that I must make a remark to you. Proceed, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u284	Three contracts for delivery of a total of 358 medical vehicles were concluded in implementation of the project. By October 2020, 240 ambulances have been delivered and distributed according to in-service needs. By the end of November 2020, another 20 ambulances of type B and C vehicles will be delivered. The supply contract of 78 ambulance types B with four-by-four drive is complete. The delivery of the remaining number of ambulances on the contracts will continue on a regular basis in 2021. I inform you that the Ministry of Health has launched a public procurement order to purchase 42 ambulances with increased passability. By Decree No 211 of 13 August 2020, the Council of Ministers approved additional funds amounting to 2 million. 532,000. BGN needed for the purchase of the upper ambulances. On 16 October, a new public procurement with the subject of an emergency medical ambulance delivery was opened. The aim is to buy 42 ambulances with increased passability. At present, with a notification from the Commission for Protection of Competition received on 13 November 2020, proceedings have been initiated on a complaint by the company "Excelor Holding Group" Ltd. The complaint requested a temporary measure to suspend the procedure. In view of this, the procedure was suspended on 13 November pending the entry into force of the definition which left the requests for a provisional measure to the decision on the appeal without respect if the provisional measure was imposed. The opinion on the complaint and the provisional measure requested was submitted by the Ministry of Health in the Commission for Protection of Competition on 16 November. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, I assure you that despite the complicated conditions we are in because of the new-force outbreak of COVID-19 and all actions related to overcoming them, the team of the Ministry of Health is making great efforts to implement all activities under the Project in full and within time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u285	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u286	Procedure? Mr. Svilensky, you're waiting for me to sit down and ask for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u287	Mr. Simeonov, I execute your order and provide you with physical evidence that at 12.09 a request for a hearing has been submitted to Mr. Borisov. Please take the necessary action from now on. Thank you. [[Relations between Vice-President Valeri Simeonov and MP Georgi Svilenski outside the microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u288	We continue with Mr. Kirilov's line. After the conclusion of this issue to Minister Angelov we will continue with a question to Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev. I'm saying this so that there's clarity among the MPs. We're listening, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u289	Dear Minister, I understand from your answer that only the component related to the delivery of ambulances is implemented out of all objectives. The other two components related to medical equipment and to the construction of emergency medical care centres are at the stage of procedures under the POP. Do you think that, for the period when this programme began, since 2015, these two things have not been done, which are one of the main things? Do you think that within a year you will be able to complete the procedure under the Construction Act, will be designed, the construction will be carried out in time and we will have ready emergency medical centers? I give an example of the municipality of Pirdop, in which a construction right decision was given in the distant 2015 year. So far there is not a single request to the municipality for started procedures. Do you think that at the end of next year we will have a complete project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u290	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u291	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I do not believe that in other activities, as you said, nothing is being done and that nothing is being carried out on them. I'll let you know in detail what's going on. As regards the implementation stages of public procurement for construction activities by planning areas. First, Northwest planning area including the districts Vidin, Vratsa, Montana, Lovech and Pleven. Contracts have been concluded with contractors for the exercise of construction supervision and copyright supervision for all sites of the area. The selection procedures for contractors are terminated as all tenders submitted do not meet the requirements and are in the process of conversion. Second, the North Central Planning Region including the districts of Veliko Tarnovo, Gabrovo, Ruse, Razgrad and Silistra. Contracts have been concluded with contractors for the exercise of construction supervision and copyright supervision of all sites in the area. Contracts have been concluded with the contractor of construction and installation works for the branches for emergency medical care in the districts of Ruse and Gabrovo. Third, Northeastern planning area including the districts of Varna, Dobrich, Targovishte and Shumen. The procedures for selecting contractors of construction works, construction supervision and copyright supervision are under assessment of the submitted offers. The estimated date for the conclusion of the contracts declared under procedures shall be in January 2021. Fourth, Southeastern planning area including the districts of Burgas, Sliven, Stara Zagora and Yambol. The procedures for selecting contractors for the exercise of construction and copyright supervision are also under assessment of the submitted offers. The estimated date for the conclusion of the contracts under the announced procedures shall be in January 2021. The procedure for selecting contractors of construction works for the sites from the outpatient structures of emergency medical care is completed. Three contracts were concluded with contractors of construction works for the sites in the districts of Stara Zagora and Sliven. Three more contracts with contractors of construction works for sites in the districts of Burgas and Yambol are to be concluded. South Central Planning Area including Pazardzhik, Plovdiv, Kardzhali, Smolyan and Haskovo. The procedures for construction works, construction and copyright supervision are under assessment of the offers. The estimated date for the conclusion of the contracts is January 2021. South-Western planning area including Blagoevgrad, Kyustendil and Pernik districts. The procedures for selection of construction works, construction and copyright supervision are under assessment of the submitted offers. January supposed date for the conclusion of the contracts. Seven, Sofia and Sofia district. The procedures for the selection of contractors of construction and copyright supervision have entered into force decisions for the selection of performers. Contracts will be concluded by the end of December. The procedure for selecting contractors of construction works for the sites from the outpatient structures of emergency medical care is also over. For the first position, there is a selected contractor and a contract is to be concluded. For the other two lots, the submitted offers do not meet the requirements and are due to be re-sold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u292	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Inquiry to Mr. Tomislav Donchev, Deputy Prime Minister, MPs Dimitar Danchev and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov on the government's policy on the redistribution of funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds for the period July 2020 Mr. Danchev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u293	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, the purpose of our question, preceded by our current issue, is to ensure greater publicity and predictability in spending funds under the European funds, on the one hand. On the other hand, to protect the preservation of legality in the implementation of the procedures for spending EU funds, including, of course, in an emergency situation. Unfortunately, we have found that your answer to an up-to-date question is incomplete and made as if for weaning the number, which gave us further reasons for this question. I note that your response does not address at all those decisions taken by the managing authorities and the monitoring committees on which public discussions on project selection were loudly announced, such as support for small enterprises with a turnover of more than 500 thousand. lv. to address the economic consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic and the adaptation of the activities of small and medium-sized enterprises in the context of the COVID-19 again. These procedures were surprisingly suspended that day, literally two days ago, shortly before the launch of the project. Why? Were their decisions taken outside the deadline laid down in the Law on Measures and Actions in Emergency? Taking into account our current issue and regarding a change made to § 51a of the Law on Measures and Actions during a state of emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly on 13 March 2020, adopted an amendment by the National Assembly on 14 October, please tell us what is the government's policy on redistribution of funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds for the period from 14 July to 14 October 2020? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u294	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u295	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Danchev, Mr. Ivanov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! In such a question, I am unable to answer you in the short time that I have in this parliamentary procedure, because everything that has happened in the area of EU funds over the past few months cannot be inserted within a few minutes. I feel two nuances in the question or sub-questions why changes are required in relation to the previously announced negative annual work programmes and schemes and the question of greater flexibility given to the managing authorities, especially the time periods of their implementation. Firstly, during an emergency situation, when the nature of the needs is changed and the long-term priorities remain valid, but the main task is to support those suffering either from the pandemic or from its economic consequences. The European Commission itself has not only authorised the reprogramming of existing operational programmes, but also the relocation of funds not only from an operational programme to another operational programme, but something unheard of so far, even moving funds from fund to fund. And it was done. Bulgaria may have been one of the countries that reacted the fastest. Nearly 1 billion. lv. were reprogrammed at the beginning of the pandemic, with the accumulated resource of all other operational programmes being invested in two instruments................................... which had the task to meet, so to speak, the first negative effects of the crisis. Here I include the measures for additional support of medical staff, which is continuing at the moment, will continue from the beginning of 2021. it is sufficient to repay the work of doctors and nurses, but I am convinced that this additional funding is appreciated. Here were all the additional measures related to the food provision of the population. At the expense of the ODA, the entire spectrum of protective clothing items, medical equipment that helped us in the first months to equip our doctors, nurses and hospitals, to be more prepared, including what is happening at the moment. And, of course, schemes to support business. There's a few of them. You know, the micro-enterprise scheme, the medium-sized enterprise scheme. The micro-enterprise scheme deserves interest because this is the first time that the system of distribution of European money has been opened to virtually all those who have stated the need for funding. There's no candidate who meets the requirements who's not funded. A special scheme was organized for the companies in the transport sector, a special scheme in the field of tourism. This will continue as long as necessary within the available resource. When we talk about a period in which our country is actually located at the border between two programming periods, this 2014 " 2020" begins, it is not entirely correct to talk about canceling schemes. The exact term is "delaying" and it is a few months away. Because a scheme that will not be announced now could either at the expense of REACT-EU or at the expense of the next programming period be announced in a few months, and we take advantage of this flexibility. There's no firm that's bankrupt that hasn't applied yet. On the occasion of your request for the action of art. 21 and the time period of § 51a do not think there is cause for concern. The texts in art. 21 give greater authority to the managing authority to be more flexible and faster. In this sense, its temporal application until 14 July is adequate because all schemes, including those I comment, have taken place during this period. In order to get ahead of your question why it was necessary later, with another legislative amendment, figuratively retroactive, to sanitize this period, and not to raise such questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u296	Thank you, dear Mr. Donchev. Mr. Ivanov, you have two questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u297	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! Dear Mr. Donchev, I listened carefully. Within five minutes, you could have quite synthesizedly given us an idea of what the government's policy is in the spending of these European funds, that is, the redistribution of them to overcome the effects of the CIVID crisis. Unfortunately, I felt like a lecture student who was being explained something he didn't understand. But you understand the difference that we ask the questions here, you answer the questions there is little difference. The additional questions I'm going to ask you are in relation to what we're asking at first and we're not getting an answer. First of all, I want you to answer me............................I think you have time, to what extent and in what volume these funds you have answered us here in writing, because you have answered us in writing on a previous question, have come to the extremely needy? And the second thing I would like to ask you, and you hinted at your statement, why exactly did we have to adopt this amendment in § 51a of the Law on Measures and Actions during the emergency situation so that the Law would go retroactively three months ago? What happened in those three months? Were money spent in violation of the Law, did anyone miss, did you sleep that moment, any employee woke up at the last second? And have our European partners been informed of this, because such a drastic retroactive act of law we have not seen, particularly related to spending money, and European ones? Not only us, but the media and Bulgarian citizens are interested, because the question that comes to us in this direction from the companies is: why do not the funds reach us? He's very reasonable, and we want you to give us an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u298	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. You have the floor to answer, dear Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u299	My lectures start in the second semester. Anyone interested should feel invited. I think with respect to § 51a, I have clarified the subject, there is no legal vacuum. The provisions of art. 21 refer to the actions of the managing authority and give it additional powers relating to greater flexibility. In this sense, this process ends with the announcement of a grant scheme. It is irrelevant to the conclusion of administrative contracts and to their subsequent implementation, i.e. there is not even a crumb, a speck of legal uncertainty for anyone in contractual relations with any managing authority. As I tried to explain in the short time before, the policy of the government in the crisis use of EU funds is related to the difficult exercise to preserve the traditional priorities described in the Partnership Agreement described in the relevant texts of the operational programmes and to implement sufficient, adequate anti-crisis measures. Yeah, that's a tough challenge. Fortunately, we have an accumulation of opportunities at the end of this and the beginning of next year and from national mobilisation. I'm not just talking about the government here, it depends on whether we can take advantage of all the possibilities. We have a programming period that ends 2023 under the M+3 rule; we have a new programming period that starts next year; we have the instrument for rapid support, called REACT-EU, worth 1.3 billion, which we expect at least as a rate of recovery from the European Commission to start at the beginning of next year; we have the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, which we have the ambition within a month of a month and a week to be as a final version presented to the European Commission; we also have the Fund for a fair transition. These are all instruments that, apart from qualitatively and quickly, need to be invested in the next few years. From the adequate mobilization of everyone, not only of the government, but also of companies, of municipalities, it depends on this resource to be quickly re-established to results. As for the question from the Chamber.. which has reached whom, if you have information about someone who has applied and is dissatisfied with the result, please present it to me. I would like to remind you that the scheme 3/10 "Liquid support for micro enterprises is the first of its kind scheme, where all interested parties, those who meet the requirements, received funding. It's a new logic of allocation of funds. This has never happened before. Until now, the allocation of funds has been done through a complex procedure - evaluation by criteria, burdens, a very long administrative process. Encouraged by the attempt in a few months to distribute funding to 20,000 companies, I have the ambition to apply this attempt in the future to finance for all who meet the requirements without a competitive procedure. Interestingly, despite the logic that was acting at European legislation level, the whole package of regulations that is applicable, the experts from the European Commission are impressed by our experience and we will probably get the necessary flexibility to implement similar schemes in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u300	Thank you, dear Mr. Donchev. Mr. Danchev, are you taking treatment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u301	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, what we also find from your reply is that decisions to grant grants under simplified rules have been taken without regard to the needs of the specific sectors, companies and persons affected by the CIVID crisis, but rather on the principle: give, so as not to say that we are doing nothing or driven by the motive to absorb some funds. By the way, a similar approach to planning the funds that will be spent within the next generation of the European Union and the Recovery and Sustainability Mechanism, including REACT-EU, we see now. And that is why we have called on you several times to submit this plan to the National Assembly. At the very least, there is a committee here dealing with the control of European funds. There is another committee, which the National Assembly has forgotten, a temporary committee to control the costs that are being made in order to overcome the consequences of the CIVID crisis. Accordingly, we notice that the effect of such actions on, so to speak, the planless work is just turning around some funds left and right, it is loudly advertised that the government is doing something for the Bulgarian economy, but obviously the effect is not great. The second, however, is probably also related to the legality of the actions carried out by the managing authorities, the time for which the grant reaches the beneficiaries. And here in your answer we also find a superficial information. By the way, for the procedures referred to just now by you, to the extent that your written answer to the current question that we have asked, for three out of four of the procedures presented in your reply, including the support of tour operators, the support of the transport sector, the aid has not yet reached those in need. Nine months after the start of the crisis and almost six months after the loud announcement of this aid! In other words, I can say boldly that the government lied to the Bulgarian enterprises by promising them in March this year that by the end of 2020, the economy will be supported by 4.5 billion with various measures.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u302	Thank you, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u303	I'm finishing the sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u304	We're waiting for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u305	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And it turns out that once the working measures were only two and the Bulgarian companies received about 1 billion. BGN, which ranks last in the European Union on the funds provided to preserve economic activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u306	Thank you, too. Thank you for participating in the parliamentary control, dear Mr. Donchev. We continue with questions to Minister Angelov. Question from the MPs Georgi Yordanov and Ilian Timchev regarding the provision of vaccines under the conditions of a pandemic with the CIVID-19. Mr. Yordanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u307	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! The issue of vaccination and use of this method in relation to the pandemic with the COVID-19, of course, that excites the whole public. For now, at least from the media reports, the issue of creating and developing a vaccine is indefinitely in the future. It is mentioned about six projects in the territory of the European Union, the UK and the United States, two vaccines in Russia, India and China, including our colleagues from the At the same time, a press release came out that you were discussing within the Council of Ministers an obligation to provide a common order for the delivery of vaccines to all EU countries distributed in some way. As it does not become clear exactly what type these vaccines are of, but it becomes clear about their number of 13 million, which caused a lot of amazement, provided that a year ago the mandatory Immunity calendar of the Republic of Bulgaria was executed with 120 thousand vaccines, and in the last five years we have had difficulties with providing enough vaccines. Under the conditions of a pandemic, the figure of 180,000 vaccines, which you have planned, or the Ministry with your predecessors, was mentioned, so 13 million vaccines, whether they will be administered twice, are quite high, and worth somewhere between 300 and 500 million. BGN, which is also an extremely high price. I would like to ask you a question for more clarification on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u308	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u309	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Associate Professor Yordanov, Dr. Timchev, regarding your question to the Ministry of Health, I inform you that the Law on ratification of the Agreement was published on 11 August which empowers the European Commission to propose to the participating Member States and to conclude, on their behalf, preliminary agreements for the purchase of vaccines with their producers in order to provide Member States with vaccines in the fight against the pandemic COVID-19, published in the State Gazette. The Commission shall be empowered to In implementation of the Law by Decision No 841 of 20 November 2020 of the Council of Ministers is proposed to the National Assembly to approve the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the preliminary agreements concluded by the European Commission and the manufacturers of medicines - Astra Zeneka, Sanofi, Pfizer, and Biontech............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Information will be provided to the National Assembly on the course of the negotiations in implementation of the Agreement on the planned possibilities for approval and delivery of vaccines with the respective forecast deadlines, as well as information on the contracts to which the Republic of Bulgaria is currently involved. It should be borne in mind that at present there is no vaccine that has passed all phases of clinical trials and is approved for use in the European Union, given that the inclusion of the country in a preliminary agreement allows more access of the Bulgarian citizens to the vaccine against the new coronavirus. In conclusion, I inform you that the Ministry of Health has taken action to draw up common national rules and guidelines for vaccination of risk groups in the population, including the storage and transport of medicinal products, the provision of medical devices for their implementation and scope, these are the risk groups of the population, a mechanism for covering risk groups of health professionals, general practitioners, doctors and others to meet national needs and, at the same time, to meet European guidelines and recommendations with a view to establishing a synchronised European vaccination strategy. In conclusion, I would like to inform you that the Bulgarian Government is extremely important when vaccines are registered in the European Medicines Agency, all types of vaccines that the government will approve under the European Commission will be applied in the territory of Bulgaria free of charge and voluntary for all Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u310	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Yordanov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u311	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues, Mr. Minister! I didn't actually get an answer about the number of vaccines and their value, obviously, that you didn't want to specify things. However, I would also like to add one more question: how do you assess the agreement reached with the European Union to drop legal protection in case of complications or adverse reactions due to vaccination with vaccines that you mentioned earlier?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u312	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u313	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Associate Professor Yordanov, I have clearly and accurately said that information will be provided to the National Assembly on the course of the negotiations in implementation of the Agreement on the planned possibilities for approval and delivery of vaccines with the corresponding forecast deadlines, as well as information on the contracts to which the Republic of Bulgaria is currently involved. The Members of the National Assembly will receive all the information in question at the moment when all documents enter the National Assembly and such a meeting of the National Assembly is scheduled. There you will have the opportunity to ask your questions and get detailed information from me about all the facts and questions you ask.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u314	Thank you. The next question to Minister Angelov is from the MPs Evdokia Asenova and Anna Slavova regarding access to examination and testing of patients with proven positive PCR test for COVID-19 during their prescribed mandatory isolation. Here you are, Mrs. Asenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u315	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! We live in the conditions of the so-called second wave of the spread of the coronavirus, and although we have had enough time to react, we remain with the feeling that the management of the crisis does not give us security and peace. The number of people infected is increasing, our health system is collapsing. This has required stricter anti-epidemic measures from this evening. Any citizen with a proven positive coronavirus test shall be subject to domestic isolation within 14 days. In the meantime, his health should be monitored by his personal physician. Practice has shown that this is not always enough and effective, where people resort either to self - treatment or to hospital treatment due to complications. My question to you is this: do patients who have a positive PCR test have access to an examination by specialists and studies during home isolation? Is there a special protocol for this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u316	Thank you, Mrs. Asenova. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u317	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Asenova, Mrs. Slavova! I can't agree with you, with the statement you're making that the health system is collapsing. The health system doesn't collapse. For the last three days the cured patients from the health system of the Republic of Bulgaria are as follows: 1876 cured; 2518 cured; 2255 cured so that the health system works and gives this result due to the work of doctors, nurses, first-line nurses who are 24/7 at their jobs since March, so I do not accept as a fact what you say. As regards your question, a number of anti-epidemic measures have been introduced by order of the Minister of Health, as well as criteria for determining persons subject to compulsory hospital or home isolation in laboratory confirmed cases of COVID-19. Mandatory isolation and treatment of persons at home shall be carried out at the request of the Director of the relevant R & D & I. In case of deterioration of health regardless of the reason, patients need to notify the general practitioner and, if they fail to make contact with him, with the Regional Emergency Medical Centre by wire. 112. The general practitioner shall take the necessary steps to assess the health status and, where necessary, hospitalization of the person by wire. 112 shall inform the Regional Emergency Medical Centre of the provision of transport to the consultative office in the HRC or to a hospital care facility. The mandatory isolation or treatment of persons in a hospital care facility shall also be carried out on the prescription of the Director of the relevant RAI following a proposal from the general practitioner, respectively, on the basis of an evaluation of the existing epidemiological risk by specific criteria. Hospitalization of patients with horse mackerel is assisted by medical triage, by which patients are categorized according to the severity of the condition, the need for resuscitation and immediate life-saving measures, available human instrumental resources, and an examination and examination shall be carried out in the emergency room of the hospital. Depending on the objective condition, the patient is directed to isolation and reception in the hospital or to isolation and treatments in his home. The medical supervision of persons placed on home isolation shall be carried out by the general practitioner or by a medical doctor from the hospital who carried out the hospital treatment. In the period of mandatory home isolation, persons must not leave their homes or place where they have indicated that they will reside within that time limit under the prescription of the RGI and comply with appropriate anti-epidemic measures. In the context of unprecedented worldwide distribution of a horse and the exceptional epidemic situation introduced in the country, the interests of society require joint action by all institutions, depending on the resources at their disposal, to achieve a good balance between the protection of health and the minimization of economic and social failures. In this regard, I would like to assure you that our aim is to ensure that all Bulgarian citizens have equal access to medical care..................................the complex and permanent nature of the health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u318	Mrs. Slavova, line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u319	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. Minister, your answer was, unfortunately, like an administrator, but it's also like a doctor. Can we go out for a little bit of numbers, allines, regulations and any written texts that, we can see, are not doing any work for the average person who got a coronavirus?! You're saying that personal doctors should track the condition of the sick. Personal doctors, we know very well that they don't make house calls to people who are sick of a horse. Therefore, the already so-called phone call listening remains the only way in which patients with coronavirus are treated. All this time, we try to make it easier for the hospital system, hospital care and treatment in hospitals, where we see the shortage of doctors, the shortage of nurses, and the staff is already at the end of their powers. At the same time, you do nothing so that people who have become ill do not reach hospital treatment. How will a doctor decide by phone whether he should hospitalize a patient or not? And if he can already identify him by phone, it means it's too late for this patient. That's why the hospitals are crowded, so we're first and foremost in mortality. Somewhere we have something profoundly wrong with the tracking system for the treatment of the sick. We don't have access to mass testing at the moment, at least in Sofia they found themselves in the so-called centers where antigen tests are being done. Okay, you do an antigenic rapid test, you find the patient is sick, then what happens? We're sending the patient home, the personal doctors still don't have a referral for PCR, if this patient can't afford to pay the PCR, he goes home and waits to be treated on the phone again by his doctor. How long have we been waiting for these PCR directions from the private doctors and they're still gone? The RZI, you answered me last week, they have neither the capacity to trace epidemiology nor the contact persons, nor do we have strict control of quarantine monitoring. Maybe it's time to think about it instead of making green shopping corridors, let's make green treatment corridors so that less and less people can have hospital treatment. I think there should be a radical change in the treatment of the sick.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u320	Colleagues, in order to be able to complete normal control with Minister Borisov, I will ask the questions and answers to be within what the Rules have prescribed. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u321	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Slavova, I don't mind talking to you as doctors. I can tell everything that happens the way I've seen it with my own eyes, and the way I hear it from my patients, my loved ones. Much of what you say is so, however, much is not so. I cannot agree with you that everything that happens in the health system leads to adverse consequences or that, you see, Bulgaria cannot cope with the situation. On the contrary, I am bold and most responsible to stress that our country, what is happening in Bulgaria, is nothing different from what is happening in other European countries, both in organizational terms and in terms of the results achieved as a result of the measures introduced, compliance with measures, perception by people and so on. I find it very difficult to accept concern and understanding at the time when this continues to be very painful for me, there were people in the Chamber of the National Assembly, including your parliamentary group, who did not wear masks that did not comply with the anti-epidemic measures, which denied almost that the micron mask, in any other medical terms, does not protect, it does not protect the person, the viruses pass and so on. Then, when, out of this high parliamentary tribune, we expose and raise doubts about the use of personal protective equipment, we dissuade the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria to comply with the anti-epidemic measures. And that is the result of what you are saying about worsening the epidemiological indicators of our country. Compliance with the measures results and this is evident from the results achieved in European countries where anti-epidemic measures are being followed. With regard to the fact that how does the health system work? The health system in Bulgaria works in a way in which it was created decades back in time. We are asked, from this health system that we have, to extract the best from it that can be extracted. I think we're doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u322	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to Minister Angelov is from the National Representative Nikolai Ivanov regarding the secondment of doctors. You have the floor, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u323	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable ministers! Dear Minister, according to the proposal of the Chief State Health Inspector in a statement to the media it is necessary to urgently give you the rights and powers to post doctors from outpatient care in hospitals to support their colleagues in the newly formed housing units in the country. What is your opinion on this proposal of the Chief State Health Inspector, are you considering specific actions in this direction? If on what basis will this type of posting be carried out to a doctor. A specialist from hospital or from one hospital to another, given that the medical institutions are commercial companies and each doctor has a contract for a particular type and type of activity for which he is profiled, and it is different from the activity for which he will be posted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u324	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u325	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, the authorities of the management of hospital care institutions have decided to deal with the personnel deficit. Initially within the medical establishment through reorganization, temporary restructuring and reduction of hospital beds as provided for in Regulation No 49 on the basic requirements to be met by the establishment, activity and internal order of hospital care establishments and social care homes. Opportunities that can be used between medical institutions to negotiate between them for providing medical professionals, medical services and other activities shall provide the provision of art. 95, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Medical Institutions, in the case of the relevant dialogue and cooperation with the aim of interacting with the effective use of the resources available to us. With regard to employment opportunities with other employers, employment outside the working hours established for the worker and the employee in the main employment relationship and employment opportunities, the relevant provisions of labour legislation are applicable. Where the needs of the undertaking so require, the employer may post the worker or employee to perform employment duties outside the place of his permanent work, but for no more than 30 calendar days without interruption. Posting for a period longer than 30 calendar days shall be carried out by written consent of the worker or employee, this shall be the norm of art. 121, para. 1 and para. 2 of the Labour Code. The Ordinance on secondment to the country provides for the possibility to, exceptionally, be posted a worker or an employee from another undertaking, but only upon mutual written agreement between him, his employer and the poster. In such cases, the payment of the travel money shall be at the expense of the poster, unless otherwise agreed. Commands shall be carried out on the basis of a written written order issued in advance with the relevant props. It is apparent from the above provisions of the Labour Code and the Ordinance on Missions in the country that doctors working in outpatient care facilities may be posted to hospital care facilities on the basis of an order of the head of the hospital care facility and in the event of mutual written agreement between the doctor and the poster's employer. The task for which the doctor is seconded, the duration of the missions and so on shall be defined in the travel order. The head of the hospital care facility shall monitor the effectiveness of the activities of the seconded physician. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u326	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u327	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, you described the routine process of posting medical professionals with an order, order of their employer and their consent from one medical facility to another. My question was for your opinion in this extremely difficult environment, what is your opinion on this idea of your extraordinary powers regarding the secondment of doctors, especially in hospital care, in hospitals where there is a shortage of doctors, especially in the exposed wards? Clearly, lack of enough doctors is currently the biggest problem of the system. The question must be specifically sought for a solution, and well thought out, because if doctors from hospital care, for example, are posted to hospitals, then the question remains: who will take care of patients in hospital care, in outpatient care, prevention, so that they have really good medical care even at the beginning of the disease by CIVID and not come to this severe situation with the overcrowding of hospitals? Secondly, it is no less important, even in an intra-hospital secondment, to provide for a training course, and very seriously, for the work of newly appointed doctors in housing, because we know that according to statistics, one part of medical staff is infected in such an environment precisely because of insufficient training for working in such an environment. These are important questions that also worry doctors, and are extremely important for patients with CIVID. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u328	Thank you. Mr. Minister's doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u329	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The COVID-19 epidemic, rather the pandemic, raised many questions to health systems in the world, including Bulgaria. All the questions that can be asked cannot be answered during an epidemic, they can find their answers when we do not have a global pandemic, when we do not have an epidemic situation in the country and when everything is normal. We are currently talking about an emergency epidemic situation, given the pressure it has on the health system. What you said was yes, a serious problem is when they are posted and if doctors from outpatient care are posted to hospital care. But this mechanism of work works in several hospitals in the country. We have wanted doctors general practitioners, doctors from specialized outpatient medical care who help their colleagues in hospitals. This is an act of solidarity and, of course, solidarity must be for all doctors who can do it. With regard to the training of doctors for working in the wards, such training was done early in March in all medical institutions with educational films, with extraordinary briefings, periodic briefings, initial instructions for carrying personal protective equipment, a trend that we observe, which in large hospitals has been from the very beginning and continues to be lasting. There are very few doctors who are getting sick in the coffin wards, as there their actions are drawn in advance and their sharpness of attention is at the necessary heights. Unlike all other wards of medical establishments and in contrast to infection outside medical establishments. It's a trend we're seeing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u330	Thank you, dear Minister. Two questions follow, which will be answered jointly by the MPs Krasimir Yankov and Lalo Kirilov. You have the floor, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u331	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Minister, my question is getting more and more up-to-date because we've been seeing the situation over the past few weeks. There are specialists such as allergoologists, ophthalmologists and others who have never worked in an intensive environment with polymorbid patients in severe condition. In this way, I think it violates the healing standard of this specific disease for infected with COVID-19. The question is dictated by my desire to protect doctors and patients and it is: in relation to the possible formation of legal proceedings by relatives of deceased or disabled patients, is legal protection provided for doctors who are not pulmologists or infectiouss and perform a type of work other than that of their employment in order not to be subject to criminal liability?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u332	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Mr. Kirilov, you have the floor to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u333	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! My question is: what is the position of the Ministry of Health on the provision of professional insurance that each hospital must have, provided that the medical professionals do not carry out activities according to their employment characteristics, on the basis of which a contract has been concluded with the institution concerned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u334	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u335	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yankov, dear Mr. Kirilov, due to the overlap of the content of the two questions for the most part I will present a common answer. In accordance with art. 183, para. 1 of the Health Act, the medical profession in the Republic of Bulgaria is exercised by persons who have a diploma for completed higher education in speciality and professional fields. The doctor is a qualified health care professional with an educational and qualification degree in specialty from the professional field of medicine. It was at the service of the doctor's diploma that he took a Hippocratic oath. The professional qualification is not limited to carrying out diagnostic and medical activities only in certain specialties in medicine. Under the Law on Medical Institutions, all doctors, whether with their higher medical education they have acquired a medical degree, cover a separate section of medical science and practice, can work in medical institutions and participate in the diagnostic and medical process. Moreover, as part of the staff of medical institutions, their main duty is to participate in this process. The specific activities of doctors shall be indicated in the official characteristics of the occupied position concerned, which shall be developed by the medical institutions and served to the staff. In carrying out the activity, doctors and medical institutions should also comply with the regulations laid down in the existing medical standards on the quality of medical care provided and ensuring the protection of the patient's rights. This regulation should in turn comply with the already cited legal provisions on medical profession and the basic duties of doctors. In this regard, for example, the current Medical Standard on Infectious Diseases regulates that in the Infectious Clinic doctors work in wards with and without an acquired medical specialty. This means that in the course of the activities of a particular medical specialty, doctors can be included without specialty or with another specialty. Thus, within the relevant team, these persons carry out the activities of doctors and not specialists of the specific medical specialty. In the event that they have acquired another medical specialty, together with their participation with the team of specialists in all stages of the diagnostic and medical process, they may also carry out activities within their specialty if necessary. Under the Health Act, persons exercising a medical profession are entitled to freedom of action and decisions according to their professional qualifications, medical standards and medical ethics. The same law introduces an obligation on medical institutions to insure persons who exercise a medical profession in the medical institution for the damage they may incur due to a guilty failure to comply with their professional obligations. This means all doctors involved in the diagnostic-treatment process. The terms, procedure, duration and amount of minimum insurance in compulsory insurance are determined by the Ordinance on compulsory insurance of persons engaged in a medical profession issued by the Council of Ministers. Subject to insurance under compulsory insurance, liability of persons who pursue a medical profession in the medical establishment shall be professional liability of insured natural persons engaged in a medical profession for the property and non-exercise damage caused by them to third persons resulting from the pursuit of a medical profession in or on behalf of the medical establishment. The control of the existence of compulsory insurance is carried out by the Executive Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u336	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Yankov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u337	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! According to the Health Standard and the recommendations of the World Health Organization, a patient with a species of infection should be consulted by a pulmonary surgeon or an infectiousist. We know doctors are deficit. What does the Ministry of Health do to ensure that patients have access to such specialists? The Chief Medical Inspector has offered you the posting of doctors from hospital care. Yes, those who in the initial phase, at the beginning of the disease of people with the COVID-19 have the qualifications, are the personal doctors and the specialists, the doctors in the hospital aid, but if you are posting to the medical institutions, you are exposing an important part of the response the active treatment of early diagnosed patients, i.e. you cannot afford to strip this unit. At the same time, the specialists who are surgeons, I have paid attention to you, allergoologists, ophthalmoses, they have no specialization, no qualification to consult or treat infected with COVID-19. Has the government requested humanitarian assistance from doctors and nurses from countries with which the Republic of Bulgaria has diplomatic relations, as well as the inclusion of the Red Cross to provide infectiouss and pulmologists? Given that there is already a necessary equipment on the request of the Ministry of Health, and your personal, that we are equipped, we have protective equipment, we have enough beds, with the inference of oxygen, it remains to provide doctors, but qualified doctors, there are not enough pulmologists and infectiouss. There is no other solution to ensure the treatment of thousands infected with COVID-19. Therefore, I also call on you, through you, the Prime Minister and the Government, the government, for concrete actions to provide qualified doctors from other countries to treat patients with CIVID-19. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u338	Thank you. Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u339	[[non-member in NG, away from microphones]] : There is another attitude from the colleague.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u340	Yeah, I know. After the minister's reply, Mr. Kirilov's reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u341	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Iankov, the problem with pulmologists and infectiouss is already becoming a global problem, it is not only the Bulgarian state's problem, but I cannot agree with the claim in your question that Bulgaria needs pulmologists and infectiousists, because only they can treat patients with COVID-19. That's not true. Patients with CoVID-19 usually develop inflammatory non-specific inflammation of the lung. So far, all of these patients before the onset of COVID-19, and after that, are also treated by other specialist physicians who are relevant to the treatment of these types of diseases with pulmonary changes. These are fellow doctors with a specialty in internal diseases, doctors with a degree in cardiology, doctors who are anesthesiologists-reanimators, because the most severe complications of patients who have a positive test for CIVID-19 that occur due to the spread of the disease is the so-called ARDS syndrome. It is treated by our fellow anesthesiologists and resuscitators in the resuscitation wards in the country. The next ones who treat patients who have changes in their lungs and who are under 18 years of age are Bulgarian pediatricians. So we have enough doctors on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria to ask for humanitarian aid. And when I think about it, seeing what is happening in the countries around us, I don't know which country would currently give doctors pulmologists and infectiousists to help Bulgaria, provided that the state of all systems in the world is almost the same. At the moment, the country has enough doctors and nurses who can handle this epidemic. Yeah, there are places where there's a shortage of doctors, of nurses. This shortage is compensated in different ways, as with intern-medics, as with medical students, as with the posting of doctors from different specialties. There is a requirement that all medical or medical institutions that enter into a contract under the 104th clinical path have a compulsory civil contract or employment contract, i.e. a relationship with an infectious disease specialist doctor to perform the treatment of these patients. And patients who are treated on a clinical path 39, with the amendments adopted to the National Framework Treaty, there is an extension of the range of specialists who may indicate assistance for the treatment of these patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u342	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Kirilov, you have the floor for your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u343	Mr. Minister, I understand from your answer that insurance is not concluded with medical institutions, but it covers the risk of specific individuals who are treating by employment or civil relations with a particular medical establishment. My question is prompted by many meetings and conversations with medical professionals who are worried that because of a species the epidemic is posted to treat in wards, but do not have the required specialties, and they have the following questions: are these insurances by name, or are they only for the number of persons working in a particular hospital; why are they not provided by the medical institutions to get acquainted with the risks that cover these insurances? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u344	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u345	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kirilov, as I also said in my reply to the question, all medical institutions in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria are obliged to conclude such insurance, which covers the application of property and non-material damage by the doctors who work in the medical institutions in their labour relations guilty. This means that when we have made some mistake and a doctor's guilt is proven on the territory of a hospital, the claim of the relatives or the patient is usually directed to the hospital. The medical establishment shall be included in this claim and the insurance officer in accordance with the insurance policy, which shall be signed by the medical establishment. The amounts and damages for which these insurances are concluded are clearly described in the insurance policy. Insurance premiums are defined in a Regulation issued and distributed to all medical establishments in the country. I told you that the Executive Agency is checking the medical institutions whether or not these insurances have been concluded. Please, if you have information about a medical facility where we do not have such insurance for the responsibility of doctors, inform me in order to carry out a timely inspection and take the necessary steps to conclude such insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u346	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. That was the last question for you today. Thank you for participating in the parliamentary control. We continue with questions to Minister Lachezar Borisov. The first question by the National Representative Rumen Gechev is about the reasons for the collapse of foreign direct investment reported by the Bulgarian National Bank during the period January "August 2020" compared to the same period of 2019. You have the floor, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u347	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister Borisov, foreign direct investment is particularly important for the dynamics and quality of economic growth, as well as for maintaining a stable balance of payments, but according to data from the Bulgarian National Bank for the eight months of 2020, January, August, they have a collapse of almost 64%, respectively, of 637 million. EUR to 366 million Euros. In August alone, net foreign investments are negative EUR, with a positive net flow of 90.4 million. EUR for the same month of 2019. There is a trend of capital withdrawal from our economy. Although weaker, this also affects the amount of reinvested profits from foreign investors in Bulgarian companies. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, EUR and 332 million respectively. EUR in 2020, or a decrease of 14 million. Euros. Given the lasting negative trends in terms of direct foreign investment, please answer the following related questions: what are the main reasons for the observed collapse in foreign direct investment; expected or unexpected for the government was this collapse and what specific measures were taken to mitigate these negative trends; what changes have occurred in the structure of foreign direct investment in which sectors, subsectors and types of industries; how does the interest of foreign investors to high-tech industries change in 2020, give concrete examples? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u348	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u349	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Gechev, thank you for the question that is really relevant. Maybe in time, until I come to answer this question, there's a little bit more recent data for September, but that doesn't really matter. I certainly agree that foreign direct investment has an absolutely important impact, importance for economic growth and, above all, for balance of payments. The balance of payments, you know, these are Bulgaria's relations with the foreign world. First of all, I would like to emphasise that the balance of payments, in which investments are part, is drawn up on the basis of the sixth edition of the balance of payments management and the so-called asset liability methodology is used. Regarding direct investment, we already have new data from the Bulgarian National Bank, which are again preliminary. According to the preliminary data reported in accordance with the principle of the initial direction of the investment, the net flow of direct investments in the country for January and September is positive at 729,5 million. EUR, with a decrease of 326 million. EUR compared to that for January and September 2019, which trend you showed in the preliminary data for August. In September 2020, the flow was positive and amounted to 2709 million. In this respect, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. EUR, that is, we have one growth, which is times, if we compare it to September. In final or less preliminary data for August, we also see an improvement. I would like to say that it is purely economically incorrect to compare preliminary data with the final data we made for August, and here I made such a comparison for September. Purely economically this is not right and I would not agree with the rest of your question that there is a withdrawal of capital and a collapse. I give an example: in 2019, the preliminary data by September, which I now use for 2020 were 47% less than the final ones, i.e. we really cannot compare apples with pears, because one is preliminary data and the other is final. You are absolutely right that if we use the preliminary data for the same period with the previous year, both in September and in August, we have a decrease of 729.5 million. EUR according to preliminary data. As I said earlier, according to the balance of payments methodology and specifically for direct investment, the asset liability principle is used. This article is about direct investment and has three sub-items of equity capital, reinvested earnings and debt instruments. Share capital in the period January.September is negative, slightly more negative than the same period of the previous year, but we have significant growth in debt instruments. What does it mean when using this methodology, an asset liability, that is, we look at the movement in both directions. For example, when we have such a reduction in equity, it would mean that an investor who was in Bulgaria sold his business, another bought it, and he financed this deal through a debt instrument, which increased debt, but the company stayed alive and worked in Bulgaria. Of course, I can give many such examples that some of the companies that have financed their investments pay their loans in the form of debt instruments, that some send dividends, but these companies are in Bulgaria and work.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u350	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I apologize, but I'm trying to follow the rules. Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u351	Thank you. My fellow Members, this is somewhat like Hegel's reasoning that if the facts contradict the theory, the worse it is for the facts. There are no other facts than the official statistics of BNB. Whether it's apples or pears I don't know, but they're the most accurate because the BNB accounts for the cash flows and how much money they came into the respective account. So my question is based on BNB facts and data. In this regard you correctly include, as the issue was about another period, for enlargement until September, but I have prepared myself, as I assumed that you would use this data. What are they? By the end of September 2020, there were 729,5 million. EUR, and for last year it is 1.6 billion. EUR, i.e. the decline is 30%. Reinvestments in 2020 are close to 440 million. EUR, and last year it was 536 million. Euros. In addition, it worries the exports of capital from Bulgaria to 2020 compared to 2019, with 105 million for the January period. EUR more, and by making the reverse account of exports and imports of capital, only 273 million is net. Euros. Of course, the crisis is affecting, including the COVID-19, there is no doubt that this is not up to the government. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the World Bank's assessment, we are in 61 place for doing business. This is the World Bank index, not the BSP. Lithuania is 11, Macedonia is 17, and we are 61, and between Bulgaria and the other countries between 45 and 61, Slovakia is 45, are Morocco, Montenegro, Belarus, Moldova and Armenia.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u352	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u353	That's what the World Bank says, so pull yourself together and act because we are behind Serbia as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u354	Mr. Minister, the doppelganger?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u355	Thank you. I will really use the real data that shows the state of investment, which is Bulgaria's international investment position, and in particular the liabilities in its international investment position, where foreign direct investment is located. To say what are the data on the management of this government: March 2017 direct investment in Bulgaria is 44.17 billion. EUR and currently 50.33 billion. Euros. In these three years, there are 6 billion. Euro investments in Bulgaria. Compared to last year, because BNB's data are about six months old, the international position on foreign direct investment is 49.17 billion. EUR and currently 50.33 billion. There are 1 billion euros in just one year. Euro investment. That's why I was talking at the beginning about this principle of reporting on the balance of payments asset. Regarding the structure currently certified projects by the Bulgarian government under the Investment Promotion Act are worth 750 million. lv. At the moment there are two more projects - 1 billion. BGN, doubling in a time of crisis compared to what happened last year - created 3500 jobs so far. The structure of these investments that we certify and most of them are implemented is industry and high-tech services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u356	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question to Minister Borisov is from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev on readiness for introduction of start-up visas. You have the floor, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u357	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! A little over Professor Gechev's previous question. All of us, Mr. Minister, and you, as a member of the government, have repeatedly declared and set ourselves to increase the competitiveness of the Bulgarian economy, and this can be achieved by promoting foreign investment, in innovation, technology and scientific development. One of the elements through which this can be done is that conditions have been created for the launch of high-tech innovative companies, so-called startup companies. Companies arising from technological development in the modern world, you know, Mr. Minister, companies that are very fast, very flexible and succeed in a very successful and quick way to realize the relevant market potential of the innovation or of the given scientific development. You know that the work of these companies is closely monitored by such large companies in other countries. All the highly developed industrial countries in Europe and in the world, and you know there are hundreds of not to say thousands of these kinds of startup companies. The start-up visa is an instrument that almost every country. A member of the European Union has and owns, but unfortunately, not our country. You know that currently our regulatory conditions do not allow third-country nationals to launch or develop a high-tech or innovative project, or create a start-up company in our country. In this regard, my question to you is as follows: do you provide for specific incentive measures which give grounds for citizens of non-member countries to start and develop a high-tech innovative product and to pursue economic activity in the territory of Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u358	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u359	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Boychev, thank you for the question. This is a topic that was raised here by the National Representation of Bulgarian Startup and Entrepreneurial Community. We created a working group in March 2019 to support all these processes for innovative companies, for start-up companies that can have a better working environment in Bulgaria. At present, these companies really represent Bulgaria at very good levels. This interdepartmental task force was right in this area where the start-up visa was touched. It was attended by representatives of the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, SANS, the Directorate of Migration. The joint work of this working group has come up with proposals for amendments to the legislation which were in several directions, and one of them is: introducing conditions and order for issuing, refusing or withdrawing a certificate of high-tech and/or innovative project to third-country nationals; providing the possibility for third-country nationals to obtain an innovative activity certificate under the Investment Promotion Act, to reside in the territory of the country and to implement their project by introducing a new residence basis under the Foreigners Act, namely authorisation for long-term fighting; enabling third-country nationals to launch a high-tech or innovative project in the country, without this being linked to the need for employment insurance and minimal number of employees. Once the results of this working group were finished, you know that there were other initiatives related to citizenship.. how it is acquired, what is happening, there were currently some recommendations from the European Commission, but here when we talk about permanent residence, I will not leave my work with BESCO and their proposals.. even now we are working on amending legislation together with the professors of Sofia University for a new format of a type of company that is related to startups. I inform you that I have been invited by your fellow Members of Parliament to a working meeting next week to discuss these issues. I'd be happy to discuss them with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u360	Thank you, dear Minister. Line, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u361	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I am familiar with BESCO's proposals. These young boys representing several hundred companies are in the IT sector of Bulgaria. It is no coincidence that I ask this question with my full conviction that if there is something our country can be competitive with, if there is one thing we can be proud of, it is the talent of young people and their entrepreneurship. I want to develop this so that Bulgaria really becomes a technological and innovation centre in Europe. I hope this support expressed to them and to these types of companies and to the development of the Bulgarian economy of this type of sectors with high added value, and today from this platform to sound very clear and I will ask it to sound within some specific time limits. Because you see that for months these working groups have been running. Somehow the mandates of governments go away and everything then starts over again. You know that the world is a very specific place, and we have to fight for every investment, and investment in high technology, in these innovative companies, you know what added value they give to both as technology transfer and in general as added value in the country's gross product. So my request is that you tell us what you need to speed up and make the relevant regulatory changes so that Bulgaria becomes really one desirable place and not to be witness to how one or the other opportunities are constantly missing out. I deviate a little from the question, but I read that last week in a meeting of the Council of Ministers you gave some preferences to film companies for film productions in Bulgaria. You see how Bulgaria was...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u362	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. The next question to Minister Borisov is from the MP Nadia Klisurska on the Anti-crisis program related to the granting of interest-free loans to individuals and self-insured ones. You have the floor, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u363	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since the beginning of the pandemic in March to date, most of the people involved in economic turnover, including self-insuring individuals, sole traders who are self-insuring, participants, individuals in non-personalised companies, have remained outside the turnover of effective anti-crisis measures. They remained outside the turnover of these anti-crisis measures with the argument that they did not fall within the assumptions of importing into the Fund. Unfortunately for me, to this day, when, from this evening, we are once again in a situation of restrictive measures, these self-insured individuals do not fall within the scope of any social economic measure. The only measure that was used and introduced by the government was related to interest-free loans of up to BGN 4500, from which this group can benefit. I would like to mention that self-insuring individuals, starting with excursions, architects, lawyers and many, many other free professions, are people who generate very low speed and are generally supported by their activities. Unfortunately for me, they were not covered through economic measures, but tomorrow they will be placed in conditions to go to the labour market and remain permanently unemployed if something is not taken adequately. With regard to the measure that was related to them, namely loans through the Bulgarian Development Bank, my question is related to you: what is the number of people who have applied, what is the number of approved, what is the number of rejections? Is there an analysis of the effectiveness and appropriateness of this measure...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u364	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u365	And yet in view of the deepening crisis ahead, do you foresee other measures for these self-insuring individuals? At the risk of answering that they do not fall within the jurisdiction of your ministry, I would like to tell you that they probably do not fall within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, but I hope for some answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u366	You have the floor to answer. Some answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u367	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll try to be brief, because a lot of materials... Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Klisurska, in the first place with regard to the Bulgarian Development Bank, a measure that has already been working and has been accelerated has continued to be updated and further developed in the following year. The measure's budget is 200 million. lv. They are signed in implementation of this measure on the basis of a decision of the Council of Ministers in April, 12 agreements with 12 commercial banks. The limit of the signed agreement for the time being is just over 156 million. lv. By a subsequent decision of June, the Programme has been further developed and the opportunities have been extended so that the person can apply for credit and after completion of unpaid leave until his activities are resumed as a self-insuring person. Introduction of a requirement that insurance contributions should be paid or declared for at least 6 months before application extends the possibility for self-insuring persons to compare the time period in which they have a decline in income not only the first quarter, but each subsequent quarter of 2020 compared to the same of 2019. To date and yesterday, as data are updated at 03.00, the loans guaranteed by the Bulgarian Development Bank are 22 thousand. 641 pieces in total of 94 676 102 BGN The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. Or an average of BGN 4182. on credit from Bulgarian Development Bank. Since the Programme is being implemented by our partner banks, which I said earlier, 12 banks, we do not receive information about the number of applicants who have given up. There are some who have applied to two banks, but I have given you the data on what has been implemented at the moment. The State has invested nearly 95 million. lv. in natural persons, including self-insuring through the Development Bank. From now on, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for those providing, they can benefit from the so-called measure 80/20 or help employers in the sector of Tourism, Transport, Hotels and Restaurants with 290 BGN. to maintain the employment of its employees. Currently, at least 245 self-insuring persons have applied and received BGN 426 300. Most of the sectors are hotel, transport and others. As for your second part of the issue of Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness". It should be borne in mind that investment priorities and specific objectives set out in the Programme relate to innovation and competitiveness. In other words, we do not have a specific emphasis here for self-insuring individuals, but we have currently done a special procedure that must be examined by the monitoring committee within days. Three million leva to reach the Ministry of Tourism, which will be for this type of people. These are for guides and mountain guides. It should be noted that sole traders, some of them self-insuring, as a kind of economic entity, fall within the scope of our programme. Some of them were in the scope of the procedure for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, under which up to now 173 million are already in business and very soon the remaining six thousand projects are being evaluated, where we will invest another 53 million. lv.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u368	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A line, Mrs. Klisurska?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u369	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! From the present point of view, it becomes clear that the resource, which was secured through the Bulgarian Development Bank, covers only 22 thousand individuals and self-insured. If we look at the register of self-insuring persons, we will see that in Bulgaria they are about 200 thousand, which shows that the effectiveness of the measure is not enough and the uninsured resource through the Bulgarian Development Bank could be considered a more effective measure. You referred to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy about the measures they ultimately provide for one part of the self-insuring individuals, but these are only those who work in the tourism industry, in the restaurant and transport industry. In this regard, a very large proportion of self-insuring persons again remain outside the scope of any adequate, social economic measure. I am unclear why there is no real analysis of the effects on all economic entities in Bulgaria in terms of the type of crisis at the moment? And today, when we hear the sound of the media from you, ladies and gentlemen ministers, not only to you, dear Minister, how effective the measures are and what coverage they have. The only thing we hear is that there is a mechanism to help all the parties concerned by tightening the measures. No, you won't! And I ring this bell, I ring this bell, that a large part of the self-insuring faces and sole traders who do not have the speed generated, which you have set as a requirement in your grant schemes, remain uncovered. So it is important for all of us to pay attention to this group and to develop adequate measures for this group, which imports taxes, is provided, chosen to work in Bulgaria, and to live in Bulgaria. Let us also pay attention to this segment of Bulgarian society and I believe that the adequacy and behaviour of the Ministry of Economy and the other ministries is to pay attention to this whole group of people who eventually live in the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u370	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. It's a hole, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u371	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Klisurska, according to the measure of the Bulgarian Development Bank it is active, will be active and will continue to be active. The absorption, as I said, is about 95 million and it is based on demand that is available to commercial banks, so whoever has a demand can take advantage of it there. Under measure 3/10, as has been said earlier in the Chamber today, this is the first measure that has reached each stated. I mean, whoever said they got their money. With regard to the new measures, we currently have a priority to touch as the Ministry of Economy business, which is affected by the anti-epidemic measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-27.u372	Thank you, dear Minister. With this, we have completed parliamentary control for today. Thank you for participating in the parliamentary control, Mr. Minister. The next regular plenary sitting on 2 December 2020 at 9:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
