ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members of the National Assembly on the grounds of 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that it be included in the Programme for Work of the National Assembly the following additional item: Second vote of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Regional Development. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2020, which was adopted in the first vote on 31 January 2020, and I propose that it be the first item for tomorrow's plenary session Please, voting mode. They voted 193 MPs: 142, against 2, abstention 49. The motion is accepted. Message: Honourable Members of Parliament, in connection with the upcoming National Holiday Third March, Tuesday, I inform you that the Members of the National Assembly and the parliamentary groups may make their proposals for the work programme of the National Assembly for the week 4 53, para. 3 and para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure until 18:00 p.m. on Monday 2 March 2020 The draft work programme of the National Assembly for the week 4 - 6 March 2020 of the President of the National Assembly will be submitted on 28 February 2020. Friday. Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: HEARING OF BOYKO BORISOV 10, AL. 1, T. 2 OF THE LAW OF THE VOICE TOL TAXA, TOL. 113 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. Importers: Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, on 21 February 2020; Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs on 24 February 2020. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, Dear Ministers! I'm doing a direct broadcast procedure on BNT 2 and BNR of this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 190 MPs: 185, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Mr. Nenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of ministers! I am making a procedure for the admission in the hall of the member of the Board of the Agency's Board of Directors, as well as to Professor Oleg Asenov and the Chairman of the Board of the Agency's Board of Directors, George Terziyski, in order to hear them together, as was adopted and decided at yesterday's meeting, they will also participate in today's hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. Mr. Svilensky, come in. Second procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u6	As you see fit, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! As the officially responsible person for the introduction and realization of the tol system, determined by Mr. Borisov, is named Mr. Nankov, I propose to the proposed representatives of the Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u7	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. First, I will put to the vote Mr. Nenkov's procedure and then yours. Voting regime for the admission procedure of Mr. Alexander Nenkov. Vote 192 MPs: 181, Against 1, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Svilensky, there is a proper order in which Mr. Nankov should be called, so I will not put to the vote your procedure. We begin with the hearing procedure of the Prime Minister. I give the floor to the BSP parliamentary group within five minutes to develop the proposal for a hearing. Here you go, Mr. Genov. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Why didn't you put him in the motion for a hearing?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u8	Madam President, Prime Minister, dear ministers! I think Mr. Nankov is the most competent person in this country...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u9	Then why did we invite the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u10	...and he should be present with this whole team that comes here to hear, as they say, the truth from the spring, because so far neither us nor the carriers, nor no one is clear how we're going to do the procedure. It should be a decision for you to be able to invite him.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u11	Then let the Prime Minister go?!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u12	We simply invite him and propose that colleagues vote on the proposal to invite him to the National Assembly. That's our request. I don't think we're doing anything illegal or breaking a lot of rules, even though the Rules are constantly being violated. So we maintain Mr. Svilensky's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u13	If you wanted Mr. Nankov to be here, why did we invite the Prime Minister if you claim that Mr. Nankov is the most competent in this topic? I don't understand. Here you are to develop the subject of the hearing within five minutes, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u14	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of ministers and colleagues! As you know, all parliamentary parties have approved the introduction of the Tol system. We had a chance for Bulgaria to do something modern for the future with at least three goals for the state to receive more revenue in the budget, the transport industry.. clarity, concreteness, ease in its business, and people more quality roads to travel peacefully. What, though, came from these good intentions? Chaos, tension and protests. Three times run the system, three times fail! The state gave up the introduction, use and control and transferred them to private companies, but thus gave up the main objective of more revenue in the budget. Private companies that will deal with this will get 32 million. BGN, which could enter the state budget, all the more so that the transport infrastructure is a strategic site for national security and it is very important that the state has control over it. Even worse, private operators will hold in their hands all information about the transport of goods, people and services in Bulgaria. How will they use it? We can guess. Secondly, the transport companies we were supposed to lighten up. You know that they are permanent in protest readiness and the Prime Minister permanently calls them to deceive them, but they are in complete ambiguity of what awaits them from March 1st The chaos is complete. For the people the Council of Ministers adopted a decree defining the range of roads, and it was surprising that Sofia's neighborhoods had to pay to go to the center. The small settlements around Plovdiv, Ruse and other major cities will also pay for 200 meters to travel to the municipal center. The municipalities are transferring responsibilities to them without them having finances in their budget in order to fulfil these obligations. The conclusion: there is not a single winner of this reform but the companies that will collect 32 million. lv. Mr. Prime Minister, you can't make any modern reform like the people the health care failed, administrative chaos with the cash registers, Regulation No H-18 and so on. I don't have time to list everyone, but it's a fact that no reform is done as it should be. Instead of the effect he needs to achieve, he's gay. All your reforms are an additional burden with payments from people without improving the service for which they pay, and in fact the profits from these extra collected money go to private pockets. Yesterday you say, "Tomorrow I will cancel the toll system and the wineries." Mr. Borisov, in 10 years of government, you have completely destroyed the rule of law and parliamentaryism. You cannot personally cancel the system and the wineries because it is a Law adopted by the National Assembly. Instead of canceling what you can, the decision of the Council of Ministers to include roads in the scope. You're not doing what's in his power, you're doing what's in his power, and you're sending heralds to the megdans to announce to people not to obey the laws. You want to abolish a law that is not your authority. Of course, you can order the parliamentary group of GERB what to do. That's probably what they're waiting for today. For the United Patriarchs, I am not sure that you can already order them anything. But since you have personally taken over this problem, you have personally repeatedly repealed provisions of laws, regulations, you have personally met with carriers, including yesterday and once again announced to them how from 1 March they should not comply with the Law, it is also necessary to be personally responsible today and to explain to the Bulgarian society what this chaos is and how you will arrange it. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u15	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Prime Minister, please come in within 10 minutes to make your presentation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! What you have asked me is about the list of Republican roads for which toll and use of road infrastructure, toll and toll is collected. Since yesterday we had an intergovernmental meeting with Greece, by the way, it is nice to see the difference between Bulgaria and Greece in dealing with migration and what is happening in Greece at the moment. See what chaos is. There has been a zero migration in Bulgaria for years and we are an example. Let yourself see what's going on in the Greek islands. Based on your question, today at 10:00 is the meeting of the Council of Ministers, with point A 26 we remove from the range 115 km from Sofia Municipality and 40 km from the municipality of Varna. The other 12 municipalities after today's decision are being negotiated and we will also remove them from the scope. As far as safe roads are concerned, quality of roads, as far as the system is concerned, yes, it is difficult to bring things into Bulgaria. I don't remember any reform of the BSP for a hundred years of government. [[Arrival by GERB, lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u17	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u18	If it was easy, you would have entered the toll system. It is one thing to build two-track roads, you can easily see them today from what's left of what's left of the "Mladost" to "Trakia" or from "Boris" to the "Lyulin" highway. And see the 12-band roads that were built. And at the moment, "Hemus" is being built hard, "Europe" is being built hard, the others are being renovated, "Struma" is being built hard. [[Radio.]] We spoke to the carriers again yesterday. Me and the carriers don't have a theme. They themselves know where and how it squeaks...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u19	That's why they're protesting.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u20	Excuse me? Where are they? I didn't see it today. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Excuse me?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u21	Do not engage in conversation with the Chamber, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u22	So my answer to your question is: today, in an hour and something will be removed from the scope. When it comes to those responsible, it will be delayed, we will seek and take responsibility for them on a daily basis. And they will answer all your questions from now on. I reply to your question: point A 26 in one hour will be accepted. When I said about the toll system and the wine, I meant that today we're going to cancel this decision because we've been cooking it for a week. What have I broken the law or the rule of law? It's in my power. The Council of Ministers will be voted on. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u23	Thank you, Prime Minister. Colleagues, we begin with the group of questions for the Prime Minister. First will ask a question from the parliamentary group of GERB. There won't be a question. Here you are, colleagues from BSP for Bulgaria, for the first question to the Prime Minister. We will complete the procedure with two questions so that the Prime Minister can go to the meeting of the Council of Ministers. Then we'll continue with the next questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u24	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Borisov, Dear Ministers! Mr. Borisov, the time has come for you to come to this House and the Bulgarian citizens to see the responsible person for the reforms in Bulgaria........................ those that have not happened for more than a hundred years, the person who makes reforms and cancels them a moment before they start. This item A 26, which you claim you will cancel today at a meeting of the Council of Ministers, should have done exactly a year and a month ago. A year and a month ago you lied to the Bulgarian citizens, capitalized that they wouldn't pay, and a week ago you took 800 pictures of them just as they wouldn't pay. To get to today when you're gonna take them out. One year where were you, Mr. Borisov, to fulfill your commitment, a poet then, along with Mrs. Fandakova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u25	I'm doing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u26	I'm only on the subject. Because you say: ask only the wine fees and toll fees after all, Mr. Borisov, you are introducing a system, unfortunately, from which you do not know at all where you want to go and what you want to achieve with it. Around you there are people who fool you daily with the results achieved, riding with you in the jeep, and tell you how nice it is, how those trucks on top will fill a cash bank, how it starts tomorrow the system, but you were practically supposed to come yesterday at 2.30 p.m. to meet these carriers that you saw afterwards, to hear what your subordinates have done.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u27	The question, Mr. Svilensky! The clock is ticking.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u28	My question, Mr. Borisov, is: why, when your signature determines the coverage of the toll system, do you make fun of the employees in the public administration, insult them and send them as heralds to announce?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u29	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u30	Mr. Borisov, are all the facilities of the system legalized? And if they are legalized, how did you manage to integrate existing counting frames, which we all know in this room and in Bulgaria that were built without documents? [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off. Replies from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u31	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Colleagues, I'm going to keep time strictly. Please! You have one more question after that. Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u32	Let them ask other questions, and I'll answer them.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u33	It's procedure. Let's go with the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. MP... [[(Arrival in GERB. Replies from the BSP for Bulgaria "Svilenski"]] ... Smilenski.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u35	Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u36	Svilensky, with all due respect to you, not one thing we have promised ourselves has not been fulfilled. As soon as the problem you're talking about has come on the agenda, at this point, we've solved it. Thank you. [[(Replys from BSP for ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u37	Thank you, Prime Minister. A question from the Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? I can't see. From the group of the United Patriarchs? No question. The Parliamentary Group of the Will? I won't. From the independents? I can't see. Moving on to the second round of questions. From the parliamentary group of GERB? No question. Colleagues from BSP, come in for your second question. Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u38	Madam President, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Two days remains until the start of the toll system, supposedly in full volume. But again, there are problems with the carriers still can't pay the fees from March 1st when heavy goods vehicles, trucks and buses must be charged on a toll basis. In fact, it was just before the mandala fell and the chaos came, and you played last night, Mr. Prime Minister, another tango on the system one forward, two backwards, and you ordered that the start of the dance be postponed by almost a month. Hence my question: can you, within this month, make sure that the API takes over the collection of tolls and remove the unnecessary missionaries called national service providers? Can the National Toll Management work as a real state enterprise that collects, processes and controls the information from the traffic of vehicles on the roads of Bulgaria? National suppliers work on a commission of about 7%, i.e. this amount is deducted from the price of the wine and tolls before entering the state budget. If your government wanted a real market environment, a working toll system and accounting for serious revenue on the roads even with the new low range and lower rates, it would have controlled the state in the face of API itself to collect the fees. In November the API changed the regulation so that the state had nothing to do with the distribution of devices, that is, you left, Mr. Prime Minister, the organization and information entirely to private operators without any way to control the process. That's why it's my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. Prime Minister, please respond to Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u40	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Danchev! Seven percent is the price that carriers consider, using the entire European practice, that is the normal price. And that's why yesterday we agreed, within these percentages, to deliver those devices that are needed, and for the trucks to transport people who have modern GPS systems, to use GPS systems. During this period, until the system is adjusted, everyone will pay as they have paid so far. I repeat: this is a modern facility, a complex facility, European practice is such, the cheapest in Europe. I very much wish that everything could happen in Bulgaria from the first time. I don't remember anything happening from the first time in any time in my conscious life. I don't see anything wrong. So after last night's meeting, everyone, or most of the carriers, I've even saved my text messages, or they've called me to thank me and they think that within this period, with the joint efforts we'll do it. I'm more concerned, and I think yesterday all the institutions did well with the Kavarna children who took them in, but I'm more worried about a coronavirus epidemic how long the NSI's systems will last. I listened carefully to Mrs. Nino, and I'm glad she listens very carefully to what I'm saying. She said: the state should take what is necessary for those people who will be called in a quarantine period. The current legal act is: the first three days are paid by the employer, the other 11 must be borne by the NSI. This will be my proposal to the health minister. But I would like to warn you that in a growing epidemic, and it won't go away, that we don't have one today, you see all the neighbouring countries, Europe... We're making a huge effort, and I think the headquarters we made, and you like it. We have no better just in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u41	On the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u42	Excuse me? I'm done here, mate. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Then there are officials who pay for this job. If they don't make it through these days, there will be other sanctions. Everyone is authorized to do their job. Let me just say, because it's important to me and it's nice to know: if they grow to 50, 100, 200,000 to sit at home and take their hospital sheets from the state, that's what I'll recommend, the National Insurance Institute will be empty, it'll cost a lot of money. I saw President Trump last night in the United States thinks he's short of two and a half billion. However, when we make some decisions as a parliamentary republic, to think that the government will need funds after us too. That's all I have to say. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u43	Thank you, Prime Minister. We're moving on to the hearing. Will it be relevant, colleagues? At the moment, I do not see anyone who wants from GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u44	One by one, urge the parliamentary groups!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u45	I don't see anyone who wants to be treated right now if you do. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky. I've invited several times, Mr. Stoinev. I didn't see a hand raised in the hall. I see Mr. Svilensky raising his hand. Mr. Svilensky, please come in for a hearing.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u46	Thank you, Madam President. It is in the order of the parliamentary groups, but whatever. Honourable Members, Dear Ministers! What became clear today, which we, by the way, did not doubt that Mr. Borisov did not know at all what it was about. We invite him to the wineries, to the tolls he tells us about other problems in the country. And that's how the state has been run for 13 years. [[(Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov:]] Problem in a crisis problem. The crisis is one.. the decisions are different. [[Radio, GERB lines.]] Mr. Borisov, I will try to answer some of the questions that have been asked to you, and you look for those responsible. Seven percent commission the carriers agreed. Mr. Borisov, this commission is not paid by the carriers. And 10 to tell them, and 15, and 2% to tell them, this commission pays it the state, the carriers won't pay a penny less per kilometer, whether it's 7, 15, 20 or 50%. This money you, Mr. Borisov, give it to the private company that Mr. Danchev is talking about. So don't make excuses with the carriers that they agreed. No, 30 million... [[President Boyko Borisov spoke with Minister Petya Avramova.]] If I have to wait to consult with Mrs Avramova...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u47	Go on, go on. [[Noise and lines.]] Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u48	32 million Bulgarian citizens, instead of going for road repair, will go to a private company. Mr. Borisov, you still didn't answer my question: how did you integrate something illegal and do it legally? This is what carriers and Bulgarian citizens are interested in. You said you were canceling the decree today, taking out streets. One year, I repeat, one year these streets were in this decree and the Bulgarian citizens were trespassing because of you! Why are contracts with carriers not allowed to use GPS trackers? Why are conditions such that only one company can deliver these GPS trackers? That's what the carriers want, Mr. Borisov! Not to give them devices for 15 leva. and then pretend to be very good by canceling the 15 levs they want to use their existing GPS trackers and not paying anything! However, you have created such conditions that of all companies in Bulgaria that perform the GPS service only one. And you know very well what this firm is. And everyone else doesn't meet the conditions. [[Comments from GERB: "Say it! "]] If you want me to tell you the firm, ask Professor Asenov. He was at the hearing yesterday. I'm not gonna tell you who the firm is. You know it better than I do. [[GERB lines.]] Dear Mr. Borisov, let's say that the system starts, fit it two months after the start, the trucks start, the crates start the normal number of untaxed trucks is about 10% in Bulgaria at the moment: 1500 passing transit, 150 trucks per day will be fined. I ask: what legislative decisions have you proposed to the National Assembly that this money, these sanctions be collected? And when they are sanctioned, stop these trucks, is there an infrastructure built, Mr. Borisov, at the borders where they wait until they pay their fines? There's no such thing. I'll tell you, he passes, he's written, he's put in his glove box, he's gone; he's coming back, he's putting in his glove box, he's going. So it's 150 trucks a day. Mr. Borisov, there are many problems. I understand you're taping with your foot. I'm already making you nervous. I have to get out of here. [[GRUNTING IN GERB]] But other than meeting with the carriers at a late-night meeting, meet up with competent people. Make the system work, have confidence in it by both Bulgarian citizens and carriers and international traffic that passes. We are all about this in Bulgaria as soon as possible to work this system, an hour rather to enter the money in the road infrastructure, because, I repeat, the roads on which you are driven are very nice 12 times, but if you walk around Bulgaria, the roads are in terrible condition. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u49	Chirpan, Stara Zagora!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u50	So, Mr. Borisov, what I can say is: today, after the Council of Ministers, to take quick measures, to propose to the National Assembly. What do we do, honourable Members, on March 1st? I warned you when we agreed we wouldn't make it. It's a delay. It was supposed to happen on August 28th last year, you failed on August 28th! You should have failed on March 1st and on March 1st! We're waiting for March 27th. [[the President signals that time has run out]] And on March 27th you will fail, Mr. Borisov. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u51	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. The attitude of the other parliamentary groups is not visible. We're closing the Prime Minister's hearing. Thank you, Prime Minister, for participating in today's hearing. [[President Boyko Borisov, Minister Rosen Zhelyazkov and Minister Mladen Marinov leave the plenary room.]] We are moving on to a hearing of Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. Who's going to give us an argument about the motion for a hearing? Mr. Shishkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Undoubtedly, the introduction of the Tol system in Bulgaria may be the biggest reform not only for the current term, but also for the last few decades. A reform that is long-awaited and which leads to many questions and concerns by citizens. Its implementation requires extremely serious coordination between many departments, institutions... [[Radio, noise and speech in BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u53	Mr. Shishkov, just a moment. Colleagues, please take your seats. We'll continue with the hearing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u54	Thank you. ... requires a lot of expert work and, as we have all seen, a very complex relationship between the management of these institutions and the stakeholders in the face of the carriers mainly. Many meetings, many consultations, discussions that continue to date have been held. As you know, we from the Political Party GERB unconditionally support the initiative for the introduction of the system and have always responded if necessary to legislative changes. Last week we heard Minister Avramova at the Regional Commission meeting. There were also asked a lot of questions and many answers were given, but yet we see that there are still things that remain unanswered. Considering that society and stakeholders have the right to complete information, we have the right to be detailed about how and how the system will function in order not to bring any further tension and suggestion by some of our colleagues, we have deposited this request for a hearing, and of course we expect from the Minister and her team in detail to answer all questions and explain the whole process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u55	Thank you, dear Mr. Shishkov. Minister Avramova, please come to us within 10 minutes to give us your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! On 1 March, the electronic charging system for heavy goods vehicles on the paid road network started working. There will be no more delay because all the elements in it are fully operational and because the system from 1 March can start its commercial operation. At this time, the range is 3115 km from a total of 20,000 km of Republican network. The remaining 17 000 will be free of charge for the traffic that you have been in contact with and you know their demands. The Tol system starts with the coverage and tariffs offered by carriers. They made their commitment that if the state does not collect the revenues it has invested in the budget BGN, agree from June 1st - three months is the period in which we will follow the revenues of the company and the fee to be changed and increased. The system includes 295 fixed control points, such as 100 new built, 195 newly equipped, and 105 mobile. Of these 55 are control law enforcement and 50 law enforcement units. 45 exit check stations in border crossing points have been provided to the Customs Agency. Integration with the Ministry of Interior system has been carried out in order to enable mobile patrols to participate actively in the process. The users of the road network will have three options for charging route maps, GPS trackers, onboard devices. On-board devices shall be offered by national service providers which have undergone the interoperability procedure with the electronic system. At this stage, there are two companies that have a compatibility So far, the national service provider has provided 30,000 on-board storage devices. There have already been 4500 contracts signed, in a different distribution phase there are 8200 onboard devices. The other charging method provided since the start of the system is via GPS tracking devices, currently in the list of suppliers are 14 companies. More requests are accepted which are processed within 10 days. However, as we expect the initial means of payment to be with a route map, as a priority method and transit, the Road Infrastructure Agency (RF) has provided 34 additional jobs for the sale of route maps and 58 self-service terminals in the border crossing area. The transit industry in the country, as well as this one abroad, has been fully informed of what has been done so far on the introduction of the Tol system. We will not lie to the expectations of the people who support us, despite this fierce resistance and the attempts of the opposition to back up tensions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u57	The tension you're creating!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u58	Yes, it's true that some places have had problems. It is true that electronic control over the traffic of Republican roads has created tensions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u59	What's your fault, the opposition?! What's fueling the opposition?! Don't say the wrong thing!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u60	Because, Mr. Svilenski, I don't want to go into lines with you from the stands, I just want to remind you, because one of your questions in the statement was why we didn't release the people who live in Sofia Municipality and travel to Sofia.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u61	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u62	I just want to tell you that this range of roads in Bulgaria for payment of a fee has been since 2005.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u63	Why would you release them today?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u64	It hasn't been changed since 2005. If you, because you managed in this period, were willing to release these people to travel from their towns and villages around Sofia, free of charge, you have had years to change this range.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u65	You've been in charge for ten years, Mrs. Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u66	Now the state has built new different control methods.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u67	Not now! Last year.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u68	I believe you're in for better control, too. Now it's no longer being checked by road police teams. Now it's being electronically checked, and that gives a better opportunity for control, which I'm sure you're also in favour of.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u69	It's last year's decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u70	Please don't call from the hall, Mr. Svilensky!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u71	The state's control functions are increased, and I'm sure you support this way of working. That's why people were worried because you didn't change that range years ago. [[noise and shouts: "Olle!" by "BSP for Bulgaria"]] And they were trespassers. Even though you wanted to, I knew you wanted to. [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] They've been trespassing for years. Therefore, at their request, with our administration today, the Council of Ministers will release these road sections and remove them from the scope of the wine system. Once again, from 2005 until now they were within range. We are also looking at the other demands of the municipalities - 12. Two have been processed today. The decision of the Council of Ministers will be changed. 115 km will be removed from the roads of Sofia Municipality and 40 km at the request of the municipality of Varna, respectively municipalities will undertake to participate in the maintenance of these roads.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u72	And in Plovdiv, and in Ruse?!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u73	There can be problems that are caused by this electronic control. These are work problems and they are being removed at the moment. There is nothing unusual about the people paying for traffic on the Republican road network and will continue to pay now, and the range of the network is as it was 2005. [[Noise and lines.]] We all want to move along well-maintained roads, safe roads, so I expect everyone to have a consensus on the subject toll and wine. The goal of the Tol system is, as you have highlighted today, more revenue for repair, for reconstruction on the basis of a fairer model which travels more and destroys more, to pay more, because so far the main burden on maintenance was on passenger cars and not on heavy goods. That's unfair, and we have to reverse the pyramid. Tol's not just a bunch of cameras and mobile teams that have to catch petty intruders on the road. Among other things, this is a powerful tool for controlling and preventing the grey economy. Very soon we will be convinced that some unacceptable practices will be limited, such as the overload of vehicles. We all see the tracks on the roads as a result of heavier loads than permitted. Such actions not only lead to the crushing of asphalt, but also threaten the lives of people who travel on these roads. In this sense, the system guarantees greater security and safety. It is good that our efforts in this direction are supported by the carrier associations. The electronic system will be connected to the Ministry of Interior and Customs. It will support both structures in their control activities. We realize that it is a complex process, which includes the availability of modern electronic equipment and software, on the one hand, on the other hand, the presence of many participants. These are the country, carriers, GPS data providers and both national service providers. Our task in this complex set of interests is to balance existing centrifugal forces, to start normally and to introduce the toll system. In this sense, it is normal to have temporary disturbances that we react to immediately and they do not become a tragedy. Attempts to misinformation and panic among the population will also be available with tol-a, as there have been since 1 January 2019 when the wineries are introduced. There have been two days of interference in the system and this has made a great problem, great media talk: The system is not working yet, and we've already heard from you that you're announcing her failure. Therefore, my appeal is, honourable Members of the House, let us calm down our passions and give the new model a chance to charge heavy traffic on a toll basis.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u74	Get it over with, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u75	Let's let the experts do their job and all of us give them a normal working rhythm. I hope for synchronized actions with both carriers and full support from you politicians, so that we do not politicize the process, not to look for confrontation on such an important topic that is important to the people of Bulgaria, not to GERB, not to BSP, because we rely on these revenues to provide safe roads. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u76	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. We start with the first round of questions from the parliamentary group of GERB. Here you go, Mr. Dinev. First question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u77	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! We are on the verge of introducing a completely new, modern and European charging system for motor vehicles over 3.5 tonnes that pass through our Republican road network. Indeed, as we have mentioned many times, this is an extremely large-scale reform that has not been made in this volume in the last 20 years in our country. It is indeed a very complex and long process, with a lot of work and preparation by the entire team. I'm taking this opportunity to thank the whole team for this thing. Of course, with us, as the Prime Minister said, every new thing that is being introduced becomes difficult, so we expect difficulties at the beginning of the introduction of the toll system. I am personally convinced that it will work and in its first months we will also see the positive results of it. Madam Minister, despite the big explanatory campaign and on the website of the Agency, Road Infrastructure and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, and also by the teams that have been formed for this purpose, there are a lot of issues that the public is well aware of and that we ourselves should be well acquainted with once again. In this regard, it is my question to you and to your team. I am using the case that Professor Asenov is also here, who repeatedly explained to the Commission exactly what I am going to ask you in a moment. If you judge, Madam Minister, and you, Madam President, it would be good to clarify here to the MPs once again what I am going to ask you about. My question in particular is: we would like to get one more time more information and clarification about the commission of 7% of the toll funds collected, which national service providers receive according to the general terms and conditions and contracts concluded with the Road Infrastructure Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u78	Time. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u79	What exactly is included in this commission? [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria "Search": "Search!"]] In this way, isn't there a resource that might be better off going...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u80	Thank you, Mr. Dinev. Mrs. Avramova, if you don't mind Mr. Asenov taking the floor. Here you are, Mr. Asenov. There was a question for him, too. He is a member of the Management Board of the Road Infrastructure Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u81	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! It is my pleasure to make a brief clarification on these matters. I'm not a politician. I do computers and math, and I only work with facts. With regard to the facts, the general conditions clearly state what activities national suppliers perform and they relate to the provision of electronic charging services. In the model of our toll system, and not only ours, in the model of most of the toll systems of such countries as Belgium and Germany such a player in the business model has. What's his assignment? To collect the geocoordinates of the road vehicle; to identify them on the map for which road segment they are; to add to the road vehicle all the props so that we get a ready package of data to charge; to manage the contract; to collect the money from the user on the road; to ensure the collection of these funds through the state with appropriate bank guarantees and to ensure the overall process before the person collecting road charges. This is described in the general terms and conditions and they are publicly available. This is actually the task of these suppliers. These suppliers are not a Bulgarian phenomenon, they exist in practice in every toll system. Regarding the other issues that... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'm talking about national service providers.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u82	Colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u83	With regard to the framework and their legality, I would like to assure the Members of the National Assembly that all the frameworks currently in the toll system.. 100 new and 195 existing ones have absolutely fine and legal building papers. We use these law enforcement frameworks. There is no way that an illegal object can be used for law enforcement that is categorical. [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] With regard to 800 photos taken in the territory of Sofia, this is also definitely not true and it is a complete lie.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u84	That's what you say.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u85	The photos were taken throughout the territory and not a single photo of these 800s. [[a line from National Representative Georgi Svilenski]] It wasn't made in urban areas. It's absolutely clearly traceable. These are the facts and they must be taken into account. [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u86	Mr. Svilensky, please calm down.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u87	They say the wrong thing, and you look at them.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u88	I can't tell if they're right, if they're wrong. Please respect the man who speaks from the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u89	The last thing I answer is the question about GPS trackers, because it's very important. On the list API supports because it is claimed to have a monopoly and only one can offer them, there are 14 companies. Five companies with trackers participated in the test, which was carried out in the interoperability procedure. They are absolutely ready to start declaring tomorrow, and this also showed up at the meeting with the carriers, especially at last night's meeting with the Prime Minister. The carriers themselves confirmed it, so we can't talk about any monopoly. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Asenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u91	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u92	Mr. Svilensky's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u93	Thank you, Madam President. I apologize for my reaction from the place...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u94	I accept your apology.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u95	...but really, please don't let that happen. There was a Prime Minister's hearing. We asked those questions. He wouldn't say a word. He wouldn't say a word. He wouldn't say a word. [[Voices from GERB: "Eee! "]] These gentlemen in the back stood and kept silent and did not answer any questions where we had the opportunity to take an attitude. Now the colleagues ask him one thing, he answers another. These 805 photos are based on API information, Mr. Asenov. It's not BSP's or any citizen's. By API information! An employee of yours came out and said, "On February 17th, 805 people were photographed. " - Just because they weren't fined doesn't mean they weren't filmed. Do not speculate and deceive Bulgarian citizens. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u96	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. First question from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u97	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Avramova, while I was listening to you, somehow I began to soar in Wonderland, almost everything with this system is honey and butter, almost the bad BSP is guilty that 2005 has not changed the decree. Let me remind you, if you do not know, this decree has been regulated and put in order the whole system of roads since 2005. And if someone is in the way, you have been ruling for so many years, you could by another decree change the scope, regulate the relations between municipalities and a country where claims on these roads are not from yesterday. You seemed to understand them the other day! And this with Sofia Municipality is a solemn one - the Prime Minister, then in January, I remember. " 2 January 2019, Mrs. Fandakova and Mrs. Fandakova made a commitment to clear this problem. But, alas! And now it's said: "Yesterday we saw the problem, today we will clean it up. " - Well, that sounds extremely serious. And yet to blame the opposition, we've been spreading disinformation. What's the misinformation? Why didn't you and Mr. Asenov, who was tortured yesterday by the carriers at 2:30 p.m. and had a lot of problems, had one of you come to bear, to share with him the anger of the carriers, but no one dared, no one dared! Because, Mrs. Avramova, many times we have listened to you, many questions we have asked you...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u98	What's your question, Mr. Genov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u99	...we won't ask any more questions, because if we ask you, you either lie to us or nothing will happen next. Thank you. I said from the tribune once July was May, when we saw the Law, that it would be more serious to write that it would enter into force on April 1st. We pretty much pushed it to this date, whether it's the 27th, whether it's the 1st, that's how you make a bigger impression on people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u100	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Am I to understand that you will not participate in the second rotation of questions? There will be no questions from your parliamentary group? Here you are, Mrs Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u101	No, no. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u102	I clarify the procedure and see that there will be no more questions from the BSP group.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u103	Mr. Genov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am a pragmatic person, and I would never allow myself to mislead you, especially you, as well as everyone in the country, when I release information related to such a serious and complex system as is the system in Bulgaria. You're trying to distort facts and data, we're trying to explain how things are and this process has been going for a long time. It's time for you and us to stop wasting each other's time. It's time for us to take the bait, as I just said, to have a consensus on this subject. You attended the meeting yesterday at which the carriers said their problems, had a meeting with the Prime Minister last night and these problems were solved. When we make commitments, we fulfill those commitments. I regret that you yesterday, defending the toll system, as you have repeatedly announced, were not in support of Professor Asenov because he is a civil servant who has been given this difficult task to introduce a complex reform in Bulgaria. I'm sorry you weren't in his favor to calm your passions. I personally couldn't go because I was on a business trip.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u104	Where have you been?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u105	I was on a business trip to Greece, dear Mr. Svilensky. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u106	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u107	I know that BSP is organizing tension, we all see it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u108	What kind of tension is he creating? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u109	We try to be as precise as possible in exporting facts and information.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u110	Please be respectful of each other, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u111	We also expect your support for this important reform for Bulgaria. That's my attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u112	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. From the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Welcome, Mr. Ali.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u113	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u114	The way you're leading it? Hold on a second.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u115	Dear Madam President... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u116	Please be more respectful!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u117	...Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Madam President, the procedure under which this hearing is conducted does not include suggestions from the Members of the National Assembly. Mrs. Avramova just took the liberty of suggesting that BSP is creating chaos that BSP is almost turning the carriers against Mr. Asenov...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u118	Fact!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u119	...and against the Ministry of Regional Development, who are doing everything they can to make it happen for the introduction of the Tol system.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u120	What can I do, Mr. Danchev? Mr. Danchev, to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u121	I'm addressing you, yes, because that suggestion had to end it. Yesterday at the meeting, the attack was against Mr. Asenov and everyone asked where Mr. Nankov and Mrs. Avramova were and did not ask where BSP was. BSP were there to hear firsthand the problems of carriers. So stop, Madam President, the speeches, when they inspire not only honest untruths, but frankly aim to manipulate the viewers and listeners of today's debate. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u122	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Mr. Ali, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u123	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, I think you remember that, as early as 26 July 2018, when we discussed the Roads Act, our parliamentary group of.................................the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.................................... On 3 September 2018 we submitted a proposal between first and second readings for the construction, reconstruction, repair and maintenance of municipal roads to be provided annually not less than 20 percent of the revenue from fees under art. 10 "The demand for distribution to be by municipalities, as defined by the State Budget Act for the year in question. Why do I want to mention you and ask you this question? The reason is that we proved right from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, when we knew that this moment would come those road infrastructures, which are included in the Tol system................................... that Varna and Sofia are not just the municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria...... there are also such smaller settlements in Bulgaria....................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u124	The question, Mr. Ali.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u125	...connecting the municipal and Republican road network. We have proved right and you see now that municipalities, for which you are currently canceling certain roads, which through PMS are set to be charged by the Council of Ministers and at the moment, if we had these...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u126	The question, Mr. Ali.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u127	...funds of 20%, we wouldn't have a problem maintaining these roads. Sofia and Varna can afford it, but small municipalities cannot afford these funds to be for rehabilitation of the roads. My question to you is: why didn't you accept our proposal from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u128	Thank you, dear Mr. Ali. Madam Secretary, come in. [[Noise and lines.]] Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Ali, the roads in Bulgaria are from first to fourth category, plus the motorways. The fourth category of roads are maintained by the Bulgarian municipalities, while the Road Infrastructure Agency is supporting the public roads, motorways, plus first to third-class roads. The funds that the Road Infrastructure Agency is receiving from the wine system so far, and those that we have placed in the budget and hope to be realised by tolls, are insufficient for the support of the Republican road network. All of you in this room every Friday are asking me questions about Republican roads that are in poor technical condition. These 20% of your proposal does not really depend on the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, because both municipalities and the Ministry are in the same position to ask for more funds from the Ministry of Finance, so the shortage of state roads at this time is in great proportions. The Ministry of Finance should be looking for opportunities for greater incomes that can, if possible or meet the needs for Republican roads, be able to set aside such funds as are necessary for the Bulgarian municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u130	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. Mr. Ivanov from the group of the United Patriarchs.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u131	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister Avramova, you paid attention in your exhibition to the additional benefits of the implementation of the electronic system. She will be the chief aide of the state in the fight against the grey sector, something for which the carrier associations, and we say support. Through built-in electronic scales, the system will detect overloaded trucks because overloaded TIRs, except that they are very dangerous to other road users, but they also form deep tracks in the asphalt, which leads to increased danger and consequences for large repair costs that we all pay through our taxes. Do we have any guarantees that one Turkish or other TIR who broke the rules will be sanctioned in due time? Please, a little more information on the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u132	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Madam Minister, please respond to Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Ivanov, yes, as you have noted, the benefits of introducing this electronic system will not only be in the collection of more funds and better control. They will also be about measuring the gravity of road vehicles through the so-called electronic scales, with this additional benefit for this traffic monitoring and for providing data from the fixed and mobile points of the Customs Agency, to the Ministry of Interior, to the Police Department, to the NRA will be one of the additional benefits. Road charging law enforcement technology was implemented 10 800 km from the Republican road network. As I have already pointed out, 295 checkpoints are available, and 105 mobile units, and for the purpose of joint enforcement by the Customs Agency have provided 45 work stations to check the exit of border crossing points and further integration to the verification module has been carried out. Such integration was conducted with the possibility of law enforcement of the MoI mobile patrols. The regulatory framework for this process was published on 21 February for public consultation. The instructions on the exchange of data between different departments, the conditions and arrangements for access to these information systems for the purpose of carrying out the control, identification and sanctioning of the infringements related to the collection of road charges between the On the road surface there are 100 sensors for measuring the mass of road vehicles, and I will just note that we do not submit location information and we will not make public the location of the sensors precisely because of the possibility to abuse, to bypass these road sections and to pass through other categories of roads, which would be a problem for the whole system and for road pavement. With the Customs Agency, we have an agreement on the exit from the state to pay these tolls and the vehicles themselves will wait until the payment of the road toll due to the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u134	Thank you, dear Minister. From Volya's parliamentary group, come in, Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u135	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, in connection with a number of conversations held by the Volya Parliamentary Group with various volunteer organisations, such as the Mountain Rescue Service, and the actions that I know were made to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, I would like to ask you: was it discussed in your ministry and you as a minister have the attitude for the problem proposed for discussion, namely the introduction of relief for members of such voluntary organisations, such as such a relief can be the exemption from compulsory payment of a fee to the owners of cars who are volunteers and the cars that are owned by these voluntary organisations in the particular case of the Mountain Rescue Service? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u136	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u137	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Hristov! With the Law are released several offices in Bulgaria, including "Quick assistance" and other specialized cars of offices. We have further requests from both the Ministry of Justice and the specialized cars of the Office for the Execution of Punishments and other specialized services. We are also in the process of talks with the Ministry of Finance, which have a negative opinion to release all these institutions in Bulgaria with a special mode of movement. For this reason, I could not at this time answer whether these cars of voluntary formations, which are actually used probably as private cars, at the rest of the time outside the shares that are being held for rescue shares. So I could not give a final answer whether the Agency and the Ministry of Finance would satisfy such a step. However, the opinion of the Ministry of Finance is definitely all departments, except perhaps the "Fast Aid" and the Fire Department to assume their accounts so that they can pay a wine charge. Just for your information, I would like to say that out of all the free from payment of a wine charge that the Road Infrastructure Agency is not receiving as cash, this is about 3 million of the released state specialised structures and about 23 million free electronic wineries that the Agency provides to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for people with disabilities. Thus, 27 million are missing in the budget of the Agency's Road Infrastructure (Trailway Infrastructure) to maintain the roads of the exemption system. There is a debate ahead on this topic and after that there is a debate on these debates, which we will invite you to, we can also discuss the subject with the rescue services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u138	Thank you, dear Minister. I see no question from non-members in parliamentary groups. Moving on to the second round of questions. On behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB, come in, Mr. Tsvetkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u139	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Madame Minister! It is clear from the many explanations made by you and the Road Infrastructure Agency on the occasion of the entry of tol charges into service that three options will be provided for the charge via route maps, via GPS trackers and on-board devices. At the beginning you expect priority to be the route maps, the use of other options will begin gradually. However, this is linked to the creation of an optimal organisation of border control posts, where we know that besides the purchase of route maps, there are also a number of other procedures related to the acceptance of entry-exit zones. Are you sure that you have provided for everything, have you made a stick with the other departments in the area so as not to create difficulties, delays and hence discontent with the drivers of heavy goods vehicles?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u140	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetkov. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u141	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Tsvetkov, three are possible ways to travel on the Republican road network of a road vehicle over 3.5 tonnes, with which tolls can be paid. One of them is the so-called route maps. Anyone who enters the site of tol management can make virtual experience with the ability to see how a route map is purchased. I assure you that this is a very easy way in which you choose the route from Sofia to Vidin, for example, you can set the checkpoints four in number so that you can specify the route. By entering the vehicle type, the vehicle type shall be displayed. There you can see what the relevant user of the Republican road network has to pay. It's a very easy way. The second way to pay is with GPS trackers. Most of the heavy goods vehicles in Bulgaria have GPS trackers about half, at least that's how the carriers assure us about existing GPS trackers. Simply to conclude contracts for suppliers of these trackers, providers of declared data with national service providers. I guess that's what's gonna happen in the next few days. And the third way is with the so-called onboard devices that are provided by national service providers. After yesterday's conversation with the Prime Minister, he made a commitment and commissioned us to hold talks with national service providers and convince them to use these GPS trackers, on-board devices to be free of charge for carriers, and their maintenance and all costs related to the operation of these devices, to be borne by national service providers within the commission they receive for carrying out the service. After the conversation, the carriers convinced us that within one month of this process, of course, they will be ready for a hundred percent of them using GPS trackers, said that if there are contracts within five days, it is about 100,000 vehicles, they will all be. There is no need for anything other than a contract between the data provider and the national service provider. So for about five days, everyone could switch to this GPS tracking system. On-board devices require a little more time because they have to contract each vehicle owner with the national service provider and be sent to him by courier. The device itself does not require any training, but simply is placed in the car. As in other countries, for example, in the Czech Republic, we rely at the beginning that everyone will make efforts to travel with route cards as long as transit traffic is required, as well as Bulgarian carriers to make a little more effort, as we have made serious concessions both in scope, and in the tariff for tol charging, as they have now been promised, and this should become a fact, to receive GPS trackers and on-board devices without any pay, and to be correct to assist us in this process and to travel these initial days since the introduction of the route map system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u142	Thank you, dear Minister. BSP gave up the second question in the previous round. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, come in, Mr. Ali, for a second question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u143	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Madame Minister! When discussing the state budget for 2020, we proposed an increase in capital expenditure to the Bulgarian municipalities from about 50 to 120 million. lv. precisely to maintain the road infrastructure, bearing in mind that this proposal, which is also your answer to the first question, as you have answered me, is that municipalities through the state budget can have more funds for capital expenditure, but this is nevertheless not accepted by the National Assembly. Here in the last few days we are talking about tolls, about a system and it turns out that only wine systems from wineries enter the state budget per year more than 300 million. lv. Almost equal to those companies that will pay through their vehicles and the estimated about 450 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, 120 million was nothing for the Bulgarian municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria compared to what we expect My question to you is: why didn't you accept either what the Minister of Finance promised to the National Association of Municipalities and your Ministry made a commitment to increase the capital programme to at least 100 million, this was not accepted and at the same time it turned out that at the moment we are talking about revenues less than the tax of a billion and 200 million in advance, I think it was, in the initial scenario that was made. My question to you is: are you ready to support municipal roads that need urgent rehabilitation, which will affect the system of tolls and transit through the Republican road network and through settlements such roads? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u144	Thank you, dear Mr. Ali. You have the floor for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ali, municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria are a partner of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. It is customary to say that we are the Ministry of Commons. Personally, I support all Bulgarian municipalities to increase the funds provided to them by the state budget for road repair. I have also worked in a Bulgarian municipality and I know how hard municipalities manage to maintain the fourth-class road network. Now from the position I am in, I understand how difficult it is for the Road Infrastructure Agency to maintain the Republican road network. You know that these funds, which have been collected so far, were over 300 million. BGN, as you mentioned. Now we expect more revenue. State roads are harder to maintain because they are another class, they have more lanes for movement, highways, first, second and third class roads. The concessions we made to Bulgarian carriers in order to be a loyal partner and to successfully start the system, however, to go and work in Bulgaria are quite serious. We freed the second and third-class roads, third-class roads were released in the original version, and we freed the second-class roads. You know that the structure of the roads in Bulgaria is such that the second class of roads are one of the main road sections in the country, such as the Petrohan Pass, which is currently taken out and nothing will be paid for its passage, such as the road from Oryahovo to Vratsa, which is the second class. There passes the road vehicles from the ferry and there will be no bill or toll from the heavy traffic, as well as for the Passage of the Republic and for many, many other roads. For example, there is no first-class road in Smolyan District. In Smolyan region all heavy goods vehicles will travel absolutely free of charge. These great, big, huge discounts are only in order to introduce the system in Bulgaria and gradually increase the scope and tariff so that we have more revenue. I support this idea of yours. I know that Bulgarian municipalities need these funds for the fourth-class roads, but this is still a decision of the Ministry of Finance, of the Minister of Finance in relation to the state budget and revenues in this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u146	Thank you, dear Minister. We are continuing with a question by the United Patriarchs. You have the floor, Mr. Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u147	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! The Tol system is indeed one of the main tools on which we rely to renovate our roads and build new ones. She was called to the stage, so to speak, and because of a blatant injustice related to the wine system, the fact that the huge transit traffic across Bulgaria was causing more damage to the road network than practically giving income for her. In the focus of our intention, it has always been primarily the taxation of transit traffic, and, of course, respecting European rules, we make the rules the same for everyone. However, there are many countries where the state provides certain preferences for the local transport business. It is known, for example, that in Germany the purchase of new trucks from the collected toll. This also increases the ecologicality of the fleet in the country concerned. It could also be thought of some type of discount on regular use of roads, for example with daily use within a month, in the next one there could be some discount on the price. My question is: is it thought, of course, within the framework of European rules and opportunities, by options to ease the Bulgarian business, to help it in any way? It's about the carrier business, the transport business, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u148	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Veselinov, yes there is such a practice in Europe and it is not in the different fee. The carriers also had suggestions to have different charges for transit traffic and for the Bulgarian carrier. There can be no discrimination. Regarding the amount of the toll, it must be the same for the external carrier, which is transiting through Bulgaria and for the Bulgarian carriers. There are such practices that relieve through the taxes of the respective carriers.. are granted tax concessions at the end of the year. With the fees that we have accepted at the moment, the lowest in Europe, this is meaningless as an action, but I believe that at the meeting in June we will appreciate that these fees and this scope are low and when the fees are raised, you know that we had offered quite different fees, at high fees we could suggest to the Minister of Finance to consider such a flexible policy which would enable the Bulgarian carrier to develop and support it indirectly through taxes, in taxing at the end of the year, but for this we could consider another amount of fees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u150	Thank you, Madam Secretary. There's no question from the will. Independents? They don't have a question. We're moving on to expression of attitude. From the parliamentary group of GERB Mr. Nenkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Madam Minister, since today we have had the opportunity to make in a bunch of two hearings, first, I will take a position on the first and address my colleagues on the left. I didn't mean to bicker, quite well-meaning, but the behavior of colleagues from Left is, to put it mildly, hypocritical. As there is a fairy tale: we wanted to introduce the system, but we didn't want to. [[Radio.]] The proof of this is by going back in time, all the votes on bills that had to regulate the way this new type of electronic system was introduced. The fellow Members on the left have always been against it, even though they have publicly stated that they are for the left, in the end, they have always been against it by their vote, which speaks of one, to put it mildly, hypocritical behaviour. The request to hear the prime minister in general showed that the idea of colleagues on the left was not to inform citizens or carriers of what progress was, how literally hours before the introduction of the electronic system the state had prepared for what were the negotiations that had been conducted with the users of this network, but rather the idea of the prime minister's hearing was in order to make some political nuances, to create some tension that was absolutely unnecessary at this stage. As far as what Mrs Avramova has repeatedly had the opportunity in committees and in parliament to assure us, I would like to congratulate the government, I would like to congratulate my fellow Members who have always supported the introduction of this electronic system. I would like to congratulate them because there have certainly been very important steps to complete this reform over the last few years. Yes, she will certainly have her difficulties at the beginning; yes, perhaps no one wants to pay, and that is understandable, but ultimately our task and the purpose of the government is to find this necessary balance. Let us realize that when we want, when we want to look at the Western model, to use good infrastructure, and not only because of infrastructure itself, but so that the economy can outgrow what it is now, without such quality infrastructure, we cannot talk about economic development, we cannot talk about road safety, and this is the number one topic, perhaps one of the most important topics in recent years. That's why I want to congratulate the government. I'm sure, and no one believes that from March 1st everything will be wonderful, we'll go to flowers and roses. You remember that just a few months ago, when the electronic bill was introduced, the first two or three days had problems, technical problems, but in the end now every user of this network is satisfied with what it has as a product. With just one click on the phone you can buy an electronic wine and there is no need to go anywhere, no need to stick stick stickers on the glass. The same way it's going to be the same way it's going to be. This is a topic on which I have always believed that the entire National Assembly and society should be behind this idea without any political nuance. I have repeatedly said that this electronic system is not to be used by GERB, it is not to be used by any minister, it will in the long term give its good results, which is why I am very proud and that in the last few years, although all the difficulties we have had, we are on the verge of launching this electronic system, which I believe will be one of the most modern in Europe. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u152	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. For your treatment, Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u153	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! We listened with interest here and the debates that were held during the hearing of Mr. Borisov and on what Mrs. Avramova presented to us here. Mr. Nenkov also speaks, but unfortunately, I think he's confused the parties. BSP has always been about creating the toll system, but of this toll system that will bring these revenues to make quality roads. BSP has always been against everything that has been spoken here today about this damage of Bulgarian carriers, about this opaque construction of the Tol system itself. We never found out after all: are the pillars legal, how they legalized them, how they built these surveillance systems? It did not become clear after all: why from the Bulgarian taxpayers, from the carriers, from each of us should go 7% for a private company? That's why he's against BSP. Because BSP, when the law was adopted, wanted all these debates, making decisions on the determination of fees, and for every important decision in this direction to participate the National Assembly, to participate the Transport Commission, but once again you did it in the dark, you did it again so that you could put people on the street, you did it again so that you could postpone the start of the Tol system. Colleague Genov rightly said that he will probably leave on April 1st. You know what the date of April 1st is? The Day of Lie. [[Noise and lines.]] That's the truth. With each passing day of talking about the Tol system, it becomes clear that this is a huge farce, a truly obvious example of how the state treasury is being drained, because we are talking here again about a huge theft. By determining the person who's going to sell GPS trackers or maps, everything reminds us of some coupons from the National Lottery that stopped them just a few weeks ago. That's exactly what it reminds us of. And the Bulgarian citizens are the ones who will suffer those who use the services and those who will have to pay directly to the treasury tolls and GPS trackers, and whatever else you think, any other machine. This became clear from this discussion. The Prime Minister did not answer any of the questions asked here by the opposition. Here we listened carefully to the Minister, but it also did not become clear what will happen from now on, to whose account, what will be reduced, how will it be reduced, will it affect the toll ultimately. None of this became clear. It became clear that from March 1st the system will not work and the treasury will not receive revenue, the roads will not be repaired, the municipal roads will remain in the same miserable state and we will be wondering how to fix the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u154	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Atalay, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, honourable colleagues! This debate was needed in the Chamber of the National Assembly in order to hear the attitude of any political formation related to the tol system. Madam Minister, I am convinced that there is no political power in the National Assembly that is not for the introduction of the system. We just heard thanks from Mr. Nenkov for how we all gave you a chance, because if we talk about a chance, it means it's within another game, we gave you confidence, we prepared you with all the legislative rules, but in one event you lost the trust of your main partners, with whom you had to work closest to be able to implement this toll system. Why am I saying this? Because when we adopted the Law, we told you that 2019, January, there is no way to enter the Tol system, then you postponed to July. Then we explained to Mr. Nankov and to you that this system can only be introduced if there is an experimental period, a test period to pass the overall system, so that you can work with your partners, I mean your partners: your carriers, your subordinates by the Road Infrastructure Agency, of course, and your Ministry, those institutions that are involved with the overall system. You could not enter that dialogue today and restore that confidence in the carriers, nor in the Agency, so that the Prime Minister could today, without having to worry, come here and say: "Dear colleagues, we first happened, from the first time we did everything that was written by the laws, from the first time the Ministry of the Council of Ministers, when it made a decision to introduce the system, created that order and rules by which it would make them all satisfied with the means that would be collected by the Toll System. Initially, the amount was about a billion, then you reached 600 million, now you will enter precisely this experimental period, through which within three months you will leave the country without funds again, because according to your calculations they will be somewhere around 300 and several million. It's a start! And once again, I say: we are for this system, but we are against the method, against everything you have done so far, so that one day Mr. Terziev will come out and say that Minister Avramova has been informed about the misunderstandings that relate to the roads related to the municipalities, namely those roads that are second-class and passing through the municipal territories. We have told you about these roads that pass through the second-class, separate funds from the fees! You explained to us that it could not then, because it should be the Ministry of Finance to allocate these funds. Do you speak to the Minister of Finance at the Council of Ministers? Is the Minister of Finance somewhere in another country? Now that you have left the Prime Minister unable to take early morning and insult you, and you have forced Mrs. Fandakova to accept to pay instead of 8 million 500 thousand to maintain 150 km of municipal roads, we have told you: you will create mistrust in other municipalities as well. I ask you: what will the municipality of Tsar Kaloyan do where a second-class road infrastructure passes? Who will support, where will the funds come from? Who's gonna support... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Are we done here? Yeah. Colleagues, since my time is over, with just one sentence. Mr. Nenkov, I have no way of thanking you for this distrust and this chaos that you have created regarding the toll system. Good luck to you. We're ready to help as much as we can. Every political formation is ready to restore confidence in the system because we know that for the roads, for the maintenance of the infrastructure of Bulgaria are necessary funds and those passing funds, who pass through Bulgaria, must pay for what they violate, without, of course, the preferences that want some political formations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u156	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. On behalf of the parliamentary group "United Patriarchs" you have the floor, Mr. Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister! First of all, it is positive that so far I have heard that all political forces are for the toll system. The negative is that some of them never supported her on trial. They have never given any constructive proposal, only sought reasons to create distrust in this system and therefore criticize on general grounds or seek justification for their lack of support. In any case, obviously, this will be the game in this term. There will be no constructiveism, there will be no unification on certain topics and we will have to comply with this. The fact is, however, that the Tol system is something really big, important and changing overall the country in a positive direction. She has her problems, but in a few countries, by the way, the toll system left in one day, with a magic wand and everyone was satisfied. At least I don't know countries like that. As a more serious transformation, she has her risks. Whether the government should have held the direction it had taken a few months ago, or, as it actually did, it has changed the scope and method of charging dramatically, it is a question in the past, and I will not comment on it. The fact is that at the moment the only thing that raging the spirits are determined failures and they are not related specifically to the state administration, but related to the suppliers of the tol devices. I personally share the concern of transport companies for the second payment of these devices and that contracts are being offered, which will practically monopolist the market. I am sure that the state institutions, or at least I hope, will respond to this concern and will correct these faults of the system. If we need to, in the end, we will also refer to the Commission for Protection of Competition, because it needs to be transparent, flexible, accessible to both people and carriers, and to provide a good service. However, what I want to say responsibly is that Bulgaria has an extremely good system. The Committee on Regional Policy, which I have the honor of leading, we went to the site, we looked at the system, we experimented on it in real time, we saw what it could do. I haven't been to all the governments of other countries, but what we've seen in tol management has really been impressive, and I think we're not talking here about some credit of trust, to a large extent that trust is justified. We are talking about the fact that there must be better communication between the executive and the affected countries. Desiring this better communication to really happen and continuing to claim that the Bulgarian transport industry must receive its support, unlike what the DPS wants, we continue to support the system and we believe that it should enter this real experimental period and come out of it with one sustainability to ensure the financing of the really important roads for the development of whole regions in the country, as is the road from Vidin to Sofia, as is the highway from Ruse to Veliko Tarnovo, and a number of others who need funding and this funding can only happen through the Tol-a. The unnecessary noise may be useful to the opposition, but it is harmful to the state, and in this regard I suggest that we be a little quieter, more constructive, not to hide the defects where they exist, but in any case not to try to turn this into some kind of show that only seeks political benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u158	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. The Parliamentary Group of the Will? I won't. Independent? I won't. That concludes the expression of attitude. Dear Minister, if you'd like to take the floor. No? Thank you, good day. Colleagues, we continue with the next item of our work programme: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR LOCAL REPRESENTATIONS. Importer is the Council of Ministers. You have the floor to present the Report of the Committee on Health, dear Mrs Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u159	Dear Mr. Chairman! On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please be allowed in plenary Deputy Minister Zheny Nacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u160	I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 95 MPs: 92 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite Mrs. Nacheva to the hall. Continue, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u161	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Institutions, No 002-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers to the 8 January 2020 At its regular meeting held on 13 February 2020, the Health Commission examined and discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Institutions, No 002 01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 January 2020. The meeting was attended by: Deputy Minister of Health Mrs. Zheny Nacheva, Executive Director of the Executive Agency The draft and the reasons for the draft were presented by Mrs. Zheny Nacheva, who informed the MPs that the proposed legislative changes aimed at fulfilling the commitments conferred by Decision No 704 of the Council of Ministers of 2018 adopting measures for transformation of the model of administrative services, which are related to reducing the administrative burden on economic operators. Ms. Nacheva clarified that changes to the authorisation regime for carrying out medical activities and registration of medical facilities for outpatient care and hospice are proposed and the requirement for applicants to grant a licence to use sources of ionizing radiation for medical purposes will be dropped when medical equipment with a source of ionizing radiation will be used in the medical establishment. This circumstance is intended to be certified by regional health inspections in a professional capacity. The bill also provides for an official exchange of documents in the assessment procedure for failure under art. 81 of the Law on Medical Institutions in connection with the conclusion of contracts of medical institutions with the National Health Insurance Fund. A regulation shall be established regarding the order in which medical institutions for outpatient care, hospices and medical and dental faculties of higher schools registered in accordance with art. 2a of the GLP will notify changes in their registration and the documents to be submitted in that procedure. The explicit indication that only documents relating to the change should be submitted should aim to reduce the administrative burden for applicants. The regime for registration of medical facilities for outpatient care and hospices also reflects the adopted amendments to the Law on Word Organizations of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals, Dentists and Assistant Pharmacists, providing for a professional requirement and certificate of membership of dental technicians in the Bulgarian Association of Dentists. An assessment of the need to establish new complex oncology centres and an assessment of the need to carry out new medical activities by complex oncology centres is regulated, which is currently provided for in relation to hospital care facilities. In this way, a single mechanism will be established with regard to the establishment, respectively the conduct of new medical activities by medical institutions engaged in essentially the same medical activities, and it will be ensured that the activities carried out by all medical institutions providing medical services within the scope of hospital care are tailored to the needs of the population. It is envisaged when carrying out the complex assessment under art. 37a and 37b of the Hospital Services Act should also be used specific indicators for the provided health services in a specific territory, namely data on the number of medical establishments in the territory of the relevant area carrying out hospital care on the relevant medical specialties; the number of bodies and beds revealed therein, including the changes made in the number of exposed beds for the relevant year; personnel and material collateralisation carried out beds, passed sick and usable beds for the current and previous calendar year, as well as the data on the existing NHIF contracts for hospital care and on the reported and paid hospital care by types and hospitals in the territory of the field for the current and previous calendar year. In order to facilitate the administrative procedure, it is regulated and official exchange of information, as well as specific deadlines for its provision. In this way, fullness of the comprehensive assessment will be ensured, taking into account the capacity of existing medical establishments as well as the actual use of medical care. The Bill complements the powers of the Executive Agency of Medical Supervision and explicitly states that when carrying out checks for compliance with the established standards of financial activity by state and municipal health institutions, the Agency will also verify compliance of these standards with the internal rules on the salary of staff in medical institutions. The aim is to control the way wages are formed in state and municipal hospitals and its compliance with established financial standards. The regulation of a new kind of medical establishment is proposed as an organizational structure in which medical assistants, nurses or midwives carry out health care, manipulations and activities related to health promotion, prevention and prevention of diseases. The proposal allows health care, which are not individually included in the scope of compulsory health insurance, to be provided on their own at the request of the patient for payment or through the mechanisms of voluntary health insurance. In this way, it is possible for patients to choose self-use of healthcare in cases where they need only their provision and have already been appointed by a doctor, but it is not necessary to perform by such a specialist. At present, the inability to provide self-care by healthcare professionals in many cases requires hospitalization of patients and therefore the use of a larger public or private resource. According to Ms. Nacheva, the regulation of the new kind of medical establishment also creates a legal opportunity for the full exercise of the medical assistants, nurses and midwife medical profession. By setting up and organizing a medical establishment, these medical professionals will be able to carry out the activities specified in the Ordinance under art. 7, para. 1 of the Law on Word Organizations of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals, Dentists and Assistant Pharmacists. She added that at present there is no possibility for medical assistants, nurses or midwives to organise and create a medical facility where they can perform medical and healthcare on their own. The legislation in force only provides for the possibility for individuals with this qualification to carry out self-care as a unit in medical, medical-dental and diagnostic-consultation centre, which determines organisational and administrative dependence in the provision of this type of care. The insufficient effectiveness of this way of organising the provision of these services is also demonstrated by the fact that at present there is only one such unit in the country. It is envisaged that the requirements for the structure and the activities of this type of medical institution should be regulated by the Ordinance under art. 39, para. 4 of the Law on Medical Institutions. The provision governing clinical training and postgraduate training activities which can be carried out by healthcare establishments after the approval of the Minister of Health, including the proposed version of their scope, shall also include training for the acquisition of a speciality in the healthcare system by non-medical persons. The proposal is in accordance with the authority of the Minister of Health to plan, coordinate and control postgraduate training activities to acquire a specialty from medical professionals, as well as non-medical specialists with non-medical education working in the national healthcare system under art. 179, para. 1 of the Health Act. Changes are also proposed to create a mechanism for the stabilisation of a municipal hospital for out-of-hospital aid, where it is only on the territory of the locality, by providing targeted subsidies from the municipality concerned for the ongoing repair of fixed tangible assets. The Bill provides for the possibility of subsidising state and municipal complex oncology centres from the budget of the Ministry of Health for medical expertise carried out by the Territorial Expert Medical Commission, as provided for for in hospitals and mental health centres. It is envisaged by a decision of the Council of Ministers to designate a state medical establishment to provide medical and medical insurance for travel in the country and abroad to the persons under art. 20, para. 1, 3 and 4 of the National Security Service Act [[President, Vice President, President of the National Assembly, Prime Minister and Prosecutor General]] , medical provision of foreign delegations when visiting the country, as well as medical provision of plenary sessions of the National Assembly. These activities are proposed to be carried out by a state medical facility designated by the Council of Ministers, as those persons are subject to security by the National Security Service, which is an element of the national security protection activity aimed at ensuring the safety of those persons. The additional provisions establish a legal definition of the concept of "territory of the medical establishment" in relation to the application of art. 9, para. 6 of the Law on Hospitals, under which on the territory of a state or municipal hospital for hospital care may carry out other hospital care facilities only provided that clinics, wards and laboratories in both hospitals carry out different medical activities. In this way, clarity is created and conflicting implementation of the Arrangement will be avoided. The transitional and final provisions propose additions to the Health Insurance Act in relation to the public debate held in recent months on the need to introduce rules on the structure of staff costs for medical aid contractors. The amendments and additions to the Law on Organ, Tissue and Cell Transplanting are proposed for the purpose of increasing the number of donors, introducing an innovative method for overcoming reproductive problems through uterine transplantation, implementing RAMs No 704 of 2018 and taking measures to reduce administrative burden. The changes enable donation to be able to express other relatives on a Serbian line to the fourth degree, including in the case of a kinship that arose on the basis of adoption, but not earlier than three years after adoption. A cross-donor permit is envisaged in Bulgaria. This is a donation of the principle of... in the presence of two recipients and respectively two donors (their relatives) who wish to donate to them an organ but are biologically incompatible, to allow transplantation of these two patients in need by exchanging donors (not relatives) if they are compatible with the respective recipients. In accordance with Council Decision No 704 of 2018 on the reduction of administrative burden regimes, changes relating to the authorisation of import and export of organs, tissues and cells and of reproductive cells are proposed, which is regulated at the legal level and not as at the time, at the level of the regulation. The amendments to the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control provide that the funds from the sale of parts of medical establishments with state or municipal participation, regardless of the amount of such participation, can be used both for investments directly related to the subject of activity and for the repayment of liabilities to creditors. In this way correspondence is achieved between the provisions of art. 10a of the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control and Art. 105 of the Law on Medical Institutions. Changes are also proposed in the transitional and final provisions of the Act on the Budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2019, which enable all medical institutions to bring their structure and activities in accordance with them within six months of the establishment of the regulation under art. 6, para. 1 of the Law on Medical Institutions, and the regulated deadline for this is dropped.. 31 December 2019. In view of the specific subject matter and the wide scope of the activities governing the rules of good medical practice, the rules of good pharmaceutical practice and the rules of good medical practice in healthcare, an extension of the time limit for their preparation by the relevant thought organisations until 31 August 2020 is proposed. The opinion of the Bulgarian Medical Union was presented by Professor Nikolay Gabrovski, who expressed principled support for the proposed bill. He stressed that a very serious and thorough analysis should be carried out and precise and clear rules and criteria should be made for the scope of activities that can be carried out independently by medical assistants, nurses and midwives. With regard to the amendments to art. 10a of the Privatization Act and post-privatization control is proposed to discuss the possibility of prioritising the right to participation of doctors and/or medical professionals in the subsequent privatisation of parts of medical institutions. In conclusion, Professor Gabrovski stressed that the extension of the time limits for the adoption of the rules for good medical practice by the relevant thought organizations and for bringing the activities of medical institutions into line with the established medical standards is timely and necessary. The Chairman of the Bulgarian Association of Health Care Professionals Ms. Milka Vasileva informed the MPs that it is extremely important to regulate a new kind of medical establishment as an organizational structure in which medical assistants, nurses or midwives can provide health care to the Bulgarian citizens on their own or on their own. It stressed that this type of health care needs to be regulated and adequately financed, as otherwise the objectives for ensuring the care sought by the population will not be met. In conclusion, Mrs. Vasileva expressed readiness between the first and second votes of the bill to provide the Committee on Health with concrete proposals on some of the texts of the proposed provisions. The representatives of the Bulgarian Dental Union, the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union, the Bulgarian Association of Dentists and the Bulgarian Association of Assistant Pharmacists expressed principle support for the proposed regulatory changes, specifying that the specific proposals for the different texts of the regulations are contained in their written opinions. In the course of the discussion, the members of the Committee on Health raised specific questions regarding the activities to be carried out independently by medical assistants, nurses or midwives in individual and group health practices and the reasons why such a legal opportunity is not created for rehabilitators. Attention was paid to the fact that some of the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Organ, Tissue and Cell Transplanting raise serious concerns and should be placed on wide public discussion, including with leading medical professionals in this area. Some Members of the National Assembly strongly objected to the approach by which substantial changes to basic laws governing the structure and functioning of the health system are made, with the transitional and final provisions of the bill. A concern has been expressed that in recent years there has been a strengthening of the vicious practice with the Transitional and Final Provisions to propose amendments and additions to a number of laws, thereby taking away the possibility for health care participants to express their views and opinions. The Members of the National Assembly agreed that in order to achieve the objectives set out in the reasons of the bill, a second vote should review and refine the texts of some of the proposed provisions. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Medical Institutions, No 002-01-3 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 January 2020, on the basis of the discussion and the vote taken on the following results: the draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Medical Institutions, No 002-01-3 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 January 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u162	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. With the report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, Mr. Stoinev will introduce us. You have the floor, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u163	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Institutions, No 002-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 January 2020. At its regular meeting on 26 February 2020, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Institutions, No 002-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 January 2020. The bill was presented by Mrs. Zheny Nacheva, Deputy Minister of Health. The main objective of the proposed legal changes is to fulfil the commitments conferred by Decision No 704 of the Council of Ministers of 2018 on the adoption of measures for the transformation of the model of administrative service by proposing the implementation of measures requiring amendments to the Law on Medical Institutions, the Law on Blood, Blood Donation and Blood Transfusion and the Law on Organ Transplanting, Tissues and Cells. For the purpose of administrative economy and due to the necessity found, the Bill proposes other legal changes, including the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act and the Transitional and Final Provisions of the National Health Insurance Fund Budget Act for 2019. The powers of the Medical Supervision Executive Agency shall be supplemented by explicitly stating that when carrying out checks for compliance with the established standards of financial activity by state and municipal institutions, the Agency will also verify compliance with those standards of internal rules on the remuneration of staff in medical institutions. The aim is to control the way wages are formed in state and municipal hospitals and its compliance with established financial standards. The regulation of a new kind of medical establishment is proposed as an organizational structure in which medical assistants, nurses or midwives carry out health care, manipulations and activities related to health promotion, prevention and prevention of diseases. The proposal allows health care, which is not included alone in the scope of compulsory health insurance, to be provided on their own at the request of the patient for payment or through the mechanisms of voluntary health insurance. The arrangements for the import and export of organs, tissues and cells include requirements of Commission Directive 2012/25/EU of 9 October 2012 laying down information procedures for the exchange between Member States of human organs intended for transplantation (OJ L 275, 10/10/2012) and of Commission Directive 2015/566 of 8 April 2015 implementing Directive 2004/23/EC as regards procedures for the control of compliance with equivalent quality and safety standards for imported tissues and cells (OJ L 93, 09/04/2015). At present, the directives have been introduced into the Bulgarian legislation through regulations. Due to the regulation of the relevant issues, a table of compliance with European law has been drawn up at the level of the directives, from which it is apparent that an analysis has been carried out and the provisions of the directives are transposed into fullness in the attached bill. In view of the specific subject matter and the wide scope of the activities which regulate the rules of good medical practice, the rules of good pharmaceutical practice and the rules of good medical practice in healthcare, it is possible to draw them up by the relevant thought organisations in a longer period of time, namely until the end of August 2020. As a result of the vote that took place after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds with 2 votes.............................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u164	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Mr. Dimitrov, you have the floor to present the Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u165	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Your attention: ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Institutions No 002-01-3 submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 20 February 2020, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Institutions, No 002-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 January 2020. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mrs. Zheny Nacheva, Deputy Minister of Health, who focused on the changes related to the powers of municipalities in relation to municipal hospitals. The proposed changes provide a mechanism to help stabilise a municipal hospital for out-of-hospital aid where it is only on the territory of the locality, by creating an opportunity to provide targeted subsidies from the municipality concerned for the ongoing repair of fixed tangible assets. Changes are also proposed to introduce the possibility of subsidizing state and municipal complex oncology centers from the budget of the Ministry of Health for medical expertise carried out by TELK, as is provided for hospitals and mental health centres. A definition of the concept of "territory" of the medical establishment is also available in relation to the application of art. 9, para. 6 of the Law on Hospitals, under which on the territory of a state or municipal hospital for hospital care may carry out other hospital care facilities only provided that clinics, wards and laboratories in both hospital care facilities carry out various medical activities. The proposal aims to create clarity and not to allow conflicting application of the provision. As a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management with 12 votes, without the votes of the Council of Ministers, proposed to the National Assembly a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Institutions, No 002-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u166	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. With the Report of the Commission for Monitoring Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling, Mr. Julian Angelov will introduce us. You have the floor, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u167	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Institutions, No 002-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 January 2020. At its regular meeting held on 20 February 2019, the Committee for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling discussed the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Medical Institutions, No 002-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 January 2020. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Zheny Nacheva, Deputy Minister of Health, who presented the Bill and the reasons for it. She briefed the MPs on the proposed changes aimed at fulfilling the commitments conferred by Decision No 704 of the Council of Ministers of 2018 on the adoption of measures to transform the model of administrative service related to reducing the administrative burden of economic operators. Changes to the authorisation regime for carrying out medical activities and registration of medical facilities for outpatient care and hospice shall be proposed and the requirement for applicants to grant a licence for the use of sources of ionizing radiation for medical purposes will be dropped when medical equipment with a source of ionizing radiation will be used in the medical establishment. This circumstance is intended to be certified by regional health inspections in a professional capacity. It is envisaged to establish explicit and clear regulations regarding the order in which medical institutions for outpatient care, hospices, medical and dental faculties of higher schools registered under art. 2a will notify any changes to their registration as well as the documents to be submitted in that procedure. It is proposed to regulate the assessment of the need to establish new complex oncology centres, as well as to assess the need to carry out new medical activities by complex oncology centres, as is currently provided for in relation to hospital care facilities. A new kind of medical establishment is also regulated as an organizational structure in which medical assistants, nurses or midwives carry out health care, manipulations and activities related to disease prevention and prevention. The proposal allows health care, which are not individually included in the scope of compulsory health insurance, to be provided on their own at the request of the patient for payment or through the mechanisms of voluntary health insurance. The regulation of the new kind of medical establishment also creates a legal opportunity for the full exercise of the medical assistants, nurses and midwife medical profession. The expected results are expressed in extending access to patients' healthcare as well as attracting young people to these professions, as trends show a reduction in applicants for training in these specialties. The provision governing clinical training and postgraduate training activities which can be carried out by healthcare establishments after the approval of the Minister of Health, including the proposed version of their scope, shall also include training for the acquisition of a speciality in the healthcare system by non-medical persons. It is proposed that the Council of Ministers should define a decision a state medical institution to provide medical and medical insurance for travel in the country and abroad to the persons under art. 20, para. 1, 3 and 4 of the National Security Service Act. A change in the Health Insurance Act is proposed in relation to the public debate held in recent months on the need to introduce rules on the structure of staff costs for medical aid contractors. The amendments to the Law on Blood, Blood Donation and Blood Transfusion are related only to the implementation of a measure by Decision No 704 of the Council of Ministers of 2018. The Law on Organ, Tissue and Cell Transplanting proposes changes in three guidelines: to increase the number of donors, to introduce an innovative method for overcoming reproductive problems through uterus transplantation and to implement Decision No 704 of the Council of Ministers of 2018, and other measures related to reducing administrative burden. After the discussion and the vote held, the Committee for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and the Fight against the Grey Economy and Smuggling proposes that the National Assembly should not adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Act on Medical Institutions, No 002-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 January 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u168	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Ladies and gentlemen, we interrupt work for 30 minutes. [[After the break]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u169	Colleagues, I think we can continue our session. Should I ask the importers if they want to present the bill? If not, we are going to debate. Anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u170	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I looked right, but there's no one to the right. Once again, we do not have a representative of the Ministry of Health when we look at the basic Law, which defines its functions in determining the health network, in particular the medical institutions. We are being offered a Law which, unfortunately, will still use the word again, has the main disadvantage that it changes a lot of other laws, which practically seem to have no bearing on healthcare. This implies a replacement of the debate, that is, there is not enough time for a debate on major issues, because in this way proposals a bill for amending and amending the Law on Medical Institutions is made some substantial changes. Today, at first reading, I will not dwell on the main ones, although I cannot help but mention the possibility which is being discussed over 15 years. And what is nonsense or interesting is that paramedics, nurses and midwives can create such health care facilities under this law, but dentists and doctors are not allowed to create them. However, what I cannot say, and what is basically, I would like to say that this Law replaces a fundamental principle that protected public hospitals, public hospitals. This is about changing the Law on Privatization and Privatization Control. You know that Bulgarian hospitals, both state and municipal, have common obligations that are not clear how many they are, but they gravitate between 400 and 600 thousand. BGN, and some say there are more. So far, there have been no claims against them by creditors to secure parts of them to pay off the debts that these hospitals have made. Thus, the proposed bill creates an opportunity for the funds received from the sale of separate parts to go to the hospital to pay off debts. In other words, it is now possible to secure parts of state and municipal hospitals and the funds from them to go to pay off their overdue debts to creditors. This for me unlocks the process of a privatisation, I would not even say that privatization is hidden, and I believe it serves the thesis of these apologists who believe that the market should solve everything in the healthcare system. That is why we cannot support this Law today. We will refrain from his support. We have a serious claim to its content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u171	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Here you go, Mrs. Jaffer. We'll take turns in groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members, it is becoming increasingly difficult to follow the logic of proposed legislative changes in the healthcare system. We strongly object to the way in which these changes are made, and to change almost all the laws governing health relations through the transitional and final provisions. Normal legislative logic requires a bill to be discussed at first reading with his philosophy. I ask one of the rulers today to stand up and say what philosophy is and what to comment on with the proposed changes. During these changes, again through the Transitional and Final Provisions, the Law on Medical Institutions changes the Law on Blood, Blood Donation and Blood Transfusion, the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, the Act on the Budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, notice, for 2019. A Law, which is conditionally called Law, has a statute of limitations and effect for a year, adopted in 2018! The Health Insurance Act is changing, we have individually amended by the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, through which the other two laws that regulate these relationships are changing. That is why we object to this turglugüvech, which is being offered again. What was the need to comment again on such important changes on the short track? Why didn't you undertake the normal legislative process that requires debate on each proposal through individual laws? We have read dozens of opinions, one part of them supporting, structured differently, another part categorically denying the proposed changes. We can divide the proposals into several types. Some of them we will support because they are long awaited. We strongly object to another part because we believe that there are very serious arguments against them. With a third group of changes you propose texts that have a retroactive effect, that is to say legitimize things that have already been undertaken, but over the next 1, 2, 3 years. Did you just change your mind and have to change those texts again? Changes, according to one of the opinions, are appropriate and necessary in order to address certain uncertainties and contradictions in the application of the regulatory provisions, eliminating the risk of a different interpretation. Another question is why they were admitted. I'll try to mark some of the most important changes. It is proposed that healthcare professionals who work in hospitals receive the so-called WIN. There are serious objections to this. It is proposed to have a new type of medical facilities in which medical assistants, nurses and midwives to work independently or on assignment. My personal opinion, as well as the opinion of many of my colleagues from our parliamentary group, is that these are changes that are necessary. I know I'm gonna hear a lot of objections. If it is possible to do so in primary outpatient medical care, in the area of long-term care, palliative care, home care, especially in remote and difficult areas, care for mothers and children in female and child counseling, patronage nursery and midwife care, there is a reason in the proposals. It is expected to create health centres by municipalities in terms of and with the idea of early detection, monitoring, prevention, promotion of socially significant diseases. We recall that in a very large part of European countries this is a practice, and in Britain this has been happening for 150 years. There is an attempt to regulate outpatient health care structures precisely with promotional, preventive, clinical, rehabilitation and other health care, although we remain unclear about what kind of clinical care will be carried out in these centres by these specialists. And I think that between first and second readings this needs to be refined. As for the changes proposed in the field of transplantology, we support the idea of initially making donation in Bulgaria a cause and there are many more people who support this cause. However, we have serious objections to the way it is done again. Over 20 pages are the texts proposed as changes concerning this activity. This is hardly the most appropriate way to happen through Transitional and Final Provisions. As regards the proportion of the salary of staff in relation to public and municipal hospitals. First of all, the announced objective of subtracting from the grey sector of these activities will hardly be achieved. Moreover, although there has been a public discussion, it is a text, it is a paragraph that has not been subject to public consultation, and again this text, this proposal enters into the National Assembly itself, without public discussion, contrary to the Labour Code, the Regulation for Contracting the Salary, the Regulation on the Structures and the Organisation of the Salary. In fact, we have a derogation from these legal texts because the National Framework Treaty, honourable Members, is a legal act of law... cannot contradict the Labour Code. Moreover, the National Framework Treaty is not a special regulation in relation to the regulations, and the National Health Insurance Fund and the Bulgarian Medical Union are not legislative bodies, they do not have a legislative initiative. In this sense, the order with a regulatory act on how to distribute revenue is legally non-restraint. A severe distortion of the labour market can be found, according to some opinions of associations of medical institutions. The positive points supported by the National Association of Municipalities are the idea of subsidizing the current renovation of fixed tangible assets and municipal medical facilities for outpatient care when this hospital is only in the given settlement. We also consider the change that predestined to be possible to subsidise complex oncology centres by the Ministry of Health for medical expertise in TELMK when they carry out such activities. An increase in sanctions for failure to provide information is proposed. There's a lot of controversy there. Most likely this will be the subject of a discussion for second reading. I'm finishing with this my presentation, knowing that my colleagues are members of the Health Commission, doctors from our group, will complement this statement. Thank you for your attention. Very good things, however, combined with unenforceable texts, and I reiterate, with vicious legislation that emerges as a sustainable trend in this Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u173	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jaffer. - What's the line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Taskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u174	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We hear different opinions. However, we are debating the first vote of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Medical Institutions and I believe that an adequate situation is to invite our portfolio minister to attend the House of the National Assembly. So my suggestion is to invite the health minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u175	Thank you, Mr. Taskov. We'll call to see if he's available and if he can come. Now for a statement, Professor Mihailov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u176	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! At the beginning of my speech, I will say that I will fully join Dr. Nigiar Jafer's words that in order to present a bill in this House, he must have a very mature philosophy, he must determine his targets, the way in which he will achieve them, in order for the legislation in this aspect of health care to actually get the optimization that the Bulgarian citizens need. Unfortunately, once again, our proposed bill for the amendment of the Law on Medical Institutions, which is founding in the activity of.................... in the Republic of Bulgaria, represents a mix of ideas, some of which are underskilled, others...................................................... Since the two draft laws were discussed, and under the Law on Medicine in Human Medicine, which has not yet been timid in the Chamber, this one has already entered, yet the Commission we have stated very strongly that it is proposed in this way legislation, as before I will not be here to recall the Final Provisions of the Law on NHIF since 2018 for 2019, which divided six into six Constitutional Courts, which, as the old Bulgarians say, would have fallen for a single piece this budget law, which would have led to a very serious shock from all changes to 17 laws that were implemented through it. But there are really things here that make me think deeply about being a doctor with over 30 years of practice. I am not going to talk about the transplantology of this so important problem here we were gathering in February last year, we were all unanimous, we voted with a serious initiative as a parliament to actually create a change in the whole structure of transplant activity. In fact, we are receiving the data only a month ago, I pointed out no change in transplant activity for the whole of 2019. And now in 20 pages calmly, I do not know what the European Union regulation is, it is not mandatory as a directive, this is commented on several times in many committees, but provisions are introduced which have the basis of a regulation and sunk into the Law, are now becoming more of an obstacle than an obstacle to transplant teams. This is a problem that needs to be considered very seriously. Although my deep opinion is not to comment on it now is that this part of the bill should be dropped at all. The law on organ, tissue and cell transplantation is extremely specific legal matter and there must be a serious consensus on it. I spoke to Professor Vladov again yesterday, Dr Daritkova, and he once again told me that no one wrote him any letter. You told me in the Commission that you wrote a letter to him. If you want, contact him, talk to him, he said that no one has referred to him for this bill, he has given no opinion and feels in some sense demotivated after he has not received this bill as Chairman of the Working Group on Transplantology in Bulgaria, to give his opinion on it. In this respect, with regard to the Final Provisions and amendments to the Bill, I will give you examples. Just a month ago, BSP's parliamentary group submitted a modest bill to amend the Law on Organ, Tissue and Cell Transplanting. It was borrowed from European laws, from European good practices. He was swept away with abstinence, with absolutely non-professional counterarguments that we commented in the Commission, and we commented here in the Chamber, but with the roller of the majority the bill was rejected. Now, in this bill, which amends the Law on organ, tissue and cell transplantation, there are such clauses, I will share them with the lawyers, people who are without any kinship, i.e. singles, who can become organ donors, tissues and cells. Do you realize as legislators what this is about and what can happen to such a bill and such a clause in it? Not to mention that the Law on Organ, Tissue and Cell Transplant has a very serious philosophy in Europe. That is why Europe is a leader in organ transplantation. He suggested, and we talked it over with Mr. Minister, who is absent today. He has no one from the Ministry's management that he requires 24-hour control of the donor situations in Bulgaria. There is no such thing in this bill at all. It is only mentioned in one paragraph quite, so to speak, briefly, that in emergency situations, you see, 24 hours of control is being carried out. Donor situations in Bulgaria are always urgent, they are 365 days a year. From there is the problem by getting back into the Law, before the Final Provisions, which is spoken of here by the honourable Dr. Jaffer and other colleagues from the parliamentary group, you, colleagues from the Health Commission, have heard the opinion of the Medical Union, which quite elegantly said that there are serious concerns about the proposal to create the so-called hospitals. Let's leave Britain, which has a 150-year tradition in this area. How do fellow Members of the Parliament imagine that nurses, midwives, who are respected by us, have many medical assistants make up medical facilities? There must be a very serious precision here. In some areas of medicine with regard to palliative care, the care of hospice perhaps, with many conditions,................................................................................... Things cannot in any way be accepted, commented, refined in the way they are laid down in the provisions of the Law. Next, here the colleague paid attention to the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. I do not want to go into details now, I mentioned this in my speech in the Health Commission, which is so leaky! That it implies the creation of countless many parallel activities of the purely medical, preventive and diagnostic activities of a hospital. Speaking to lawyers, that doubt has been confirmed. Not to mention the fact that the issue of the sale of parts of medical institutions that are a strategic part of national security, in the way in which it is currently resolved in the Law as a proposal, does not in any way create security in these medical institutions, but creates an opportunity for manipulations, which in no case benefit the Bulgarian health care. The Report of the Commission on Health explained that health institutions which do not have the same subject of activity may be exposed. We remember the example at the hospital in Vratsa, you all remember it, where in the heart of a hospital, it didn't have an intervention cardiology, it was revealed, and there was a five-year private clinic that sucked out the resources of the Vratsa hospital. Thank God, with Minister Ananiev's efforts, this has stopped. And now again, through the back door, the opportunity is created. Well, yeah, it's gonna shut down some business, it's gonna be opened up by a private medical facility, it's gonna settle down on the territory of a state medical facility, and it's all gonna happen the same way it's happened for years. I do not want to prolong the debate because my 3 years of bitter parliamentary experience has already shown that when the majority has decided to pass a bill at first reading, no matter what the arguments of the other side, it happens. I don't want to talk about positives. Undoubtedly there are positives in the Law, but they fade, as the old Bulgarians say, against the backdrop of all the nonsense and frank misunderstandings proposed inside it. Therefore, my request is that if you accept this mix of proposals, by imposing this Bill now at first reading, firstly, we will offer a proposal for a maximum extension of the period between the two readings, to really sit in the Commission, to consider carefully, as Dr. Daritkova proposed here from the beginning of this session - consensus and not imperative - changes in this bill so that it can truly be in the service of the Bulgarian nation, Bulgarian citizens and Bulgarian healthcare. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u177	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u178	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We in the group of the United Patriarchs will support the bill at first reading with a lot of remarks to some of the texts for second reading. The opposition colleagues are right in a lot of ways. I don't know what the real result of the finale of this so comprehensive in so many fields of medicine law will be! There is only some resonant in new practices in which nurses, paramedics and midwives can work outside the working hours of the Jeep to make appointments, bandages, manipulations. It is also found in the normal, old Western European countries. But for example, for a single female consultation of our midwives, we have no opinion from the Scientific Society of Obstetrics and Gynecology. If we have to resolve with this law such model practices, we must have an opinion that we do not currently have. We only shrink the activity to the doctor's appointments and to what the doctor has appointed, and the nurses and paramedics can make it in the extra work hours of the Jeep. That's the only point. I don't see anything new coming out of this bill! That's why we're going to have a lot of reservations. Indeed, professionally in the Health Commission at second reading, we need to comment on text in order for there to be consensus on what is right and what is wrong. There are enough doctors in our Parliament who are purely professionally able to deal with these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u179	Thank you, dear Mr. Popovski. Here's a line for you, Professor Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u180	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Dr. Popovski, I respect you very much as a specialist and therefore I allow myself to give you this line very well. You know that the bandage of a wound is sometimes with the complexity of an operating intervention? There is a need to cut down ráne edges, multiple drainages. Who can tell in this so-called establishment this thing? It's a complete nonsense! It's a complete nonsense! And these things, if they are not refined, we will enter Aladdin's cave, but not the beautiful one with the treasures, but in a creepy cave from which we will come out of which I am not clear at all! So I'm asking you, especially as a surgical specialist, not to slip on the edge of the razor. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u181	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. Here's your cue, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u182	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dr. Popovski, you said well in terms of attitude, because we also have our notes. But we have to say that well and correctly they were presented by both Dr. Jafer and Professor Mihailov, especially in the part about creating such a type of medical facility. With all due respect to both the nurses and midwives, what Professor Mihailov said at all to those who would thus organize medical facilities. But imagine an assignment that is not just about cutting wounds. In such a case, this can take time and delay.. a doctor may be invited to perform this activity, but if an allergic reaction occurs at the moment, a shock situation, right, the patient is in shock, and if there is a breakdown of blood pressure during manipulation? It's a very broad concept of manipulation. What kind of manipulations? This has to be defined, it has to be very clear how what is done. That you also have your reservations, even more says that from the position of governors you also see things that need to be improved. In this respect, we all need to be very responsible for each person performing his... The question is very principled, very serious, so we have to be very responsible for what position we have, what decision we will make, so between first and second reading, many things need to be supported. What we have said on behalf of our parliamentary group is that there is no way, at this stage of first reading, we can support this PID of the Law, where there is indeed a full palette of changes in legislation, and it is also a very sensitive topic. I hope that you share, so all of this needs to be very well refined, discussed and all of these aspects of the cases that we are discussing are taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u183	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. Another line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Popovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u184	This is exactly what I had in mind, which we discussed just now about both surgical appointments and manipulations that can be done in such model practices, whether we really allow by law to have such practices or not. I therefore hope at second reading that we will indeed make decisions purely professionally without political shades. We support the First Reading Act from coalition culture, you understand. Importer is the Council of Ministers, we are part of the ruling majority, many things. There is something useful, there are things that can: for night, Saturday and Sunday, for remote areas where only nurses and paramedics work really fast, there is a reason to have such practices, but in the big city where there are centers, I just don't see the point of these practices. And that's why I really want at second reading professionally, without a political hue, I repeat, to make reasonable decisions about what is possible and what is not. For midwifes you understood my attitude, the opinion of the Scientific Society of Obstetrics and Gynecology. Because there are countries where they really take place in Africa specifically. I went to my father's visit years ago he worked there, had really such practices, but they are a French system, otherwise organized, which has nothing to do with Bulgarian healthcare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u185	Thank you, dear Mr. Popovski. Others? Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova, for your speech. Just to let you know that the Minister has been informed of our invitation. We expect to find out if he'll be able to make it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u186	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I think that out of the many laws that, through the Law on Medical Institutions, and this bill that we are discussing now at first reading, are changing, something that Dr. Jeffer is talking about is missing out on a very important law, the law that is fundamental and which is the constitution in health care, it is the Law on Health. While we wait for the Ministry of Health to work on it and offer us changes, I can boldly say that we are working on a piece, including this bill, and I will give you an example. The Bill enables the Executive Agency to check whether the standards for financial activity comply with the Internal rules on the structure and organisation of the salary. But, colleagues, notice, in this bill this happens only in state, municipal and complex oncology centres. What about the others?! Aren't there three other important subjects in health care? First entity, medical establishments under art. 10. I'm done. Who wants to do a background check on who's coming in. Can't Medical supervision look at what's going on there specifically for compliance of financial performance standards with Internal wage rules? Second subject, we continue to miss, and again, health offices in health care facilities and nurseries. Are they not the responsibility of the state and the Minister of Health? And the third important subject, who at first glance looks very negligee, but it is also important for the system to function and all medical professionals to work well, these are the non-medical specialists in the healthcare system. This is because nothing is offered with this bill in terms of changing and updating the national health card. I can boldly say that it is not national, as it covers only the needs of outpatient and hospital medical care and so on. All the other subjects are out of range. So we keep standing on one leg, we need the other leg so the system can work fully. That is why we, as a parliamentary group, will refrain from supporting at first reading the proposed bill and will propose relevant changes between first and second readings.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u187	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. - What's the line? I can't see. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u188	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Minister, honourable Members! There was a lot of talk about the proposed bill about its philosophy, various problems it deals with, and suggestions it offers. Regarding philosophy, although some of the colleagues do not see philosophy, I can say that we perceive philosophy because for us, after discussing this bill, it is such that it is, in much of the proposals it makes, the aim is to regulate unregulated activities so far. In addition, there are also many proposals that are in the direction of reducing the administrative burden. I will first look at such a wide-ranging issue, the proposal for a new kind of medical establishment as an organizational structure. I see exceptional resistance in some colleagues whether there should be such structures or not. I can tell you what comes from my practice. I will allow myself as Professor Mihailov to set an example with myself, as he sometimes gives, because I have 30 years of practice in a surgical ward, which is the oncology ward. I've seen patients who have been discharged at home and who have to take them for an injection or for a bandage or for something else, we have to hospitalize them for something that is absolutely untenable and not necessary. And what do you get most often? The relatives of this patient find a familiar sister or most often a sister who lives next door in a neighboring block and starts giving them injections or bandages and they pay some amount for each such manipulation. That's because there's just no other way, there's no other legal way. The point of the proposal to organise such healing structures is to regulate precisely this activity. As mentioned by Dr. Jaffer's words, this will also be applicable in places that are remote from medical facilities where people are unable to travel to relevant clinics. So me and my fellow Members, discussing this proposal, we believe that here it is given the opportunity for healthcare professionals to carry out their activities according to their professional qualifications. And as for what regulation can be made on their activities, if you want a standard, it can be introduced for their activity to what level they can do something, it is already a matter of additional proposals and additional regulation. However, it is in this context that the requirements for the structure and the activities of this type of medical institutions are to be regulated by the Ordinance under art. 39, para. 4 of the Law on Medical Institutions. By the way, Regulation No 1 of 8 February 2011 of the Ministry of Health is currently in place, which describes what nurses can do on their own or on the appointment of a doctor. I can tell you that for so many years, I have never seen, as has been stated, when a sister encounters a wound from which the edges should have been cut, drained, no sister will ever take such a pointless responsibility for her to burden herself with the responsibility that the doctor should bear. That's just a reason to turn down the offer. That's not an argument to me. Regarding another proposal in the Bill, an important point is the definition of the concept of "territory of the medical establishment" and just as the example was given, in a certain and clear way it is defined which is the territory of the medical establishment and cannot be speculated on which parts of the medical activity is carried out or no activity is carried out. Professor Mihaylov said that there is such an option for example the management of a hospital decides the closure of activity and hop comes some private investor who develops such an activity. Well, in the end, it's the responsibility of the management of the medical establishment. [[Reply from the BSP of Bulgaria.]] Well, they have to take responsibility, just like they did in Vratsa, and so does Lovech. We have living examples. Another important point that I have observed at the Complex Oncology Centre where I work is that the Bill proposes to drop the requirement when a medical facility will use equipment or apparatus that will be a source of ionizing radiation, I should have submitted a license by the Nuclear Regulatory Agency by now. This thing is currently dropping out as a proposal, if accepted, and will greatly alleviate high-tech medical activities. These are radiation therapy, whether the activity of linear accelerators will be Brachitherapy, whether it will be imaging with magnetic resonance imaging, scanners, ordinary X-ray apparatus, or whether it will be nuclear medicine with a gamma camera, with a hybrid, SPECT camera, with a PET scanner and so on. They are offered because I said Complex Oncology Center and opportunities for complex oncology centers themselves to make largely their own expertise related to TELK, carried out so far by TELK. Because, believe me, it really was a problem, because in complex cancer centers cancer patients are being treated, and they cannot be certified in this hospital. So, as you can see, there are enough rational proposals in the Bill, which is why our parliamentary group will support it. Naturally, there are also proposals that need to be refined or even changed, but this is possible if you want to be between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u189	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. Mrs. Naydenova, first raised her hand, and then Professor Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u190	My line is this: we must clearly distinguish between procedures. True, there is a regulation that determines what nurses can do on their own. This is a procedure, and what they can do on a medical assignment is a second procedure. But nowhere, and I can boldly claim that there is nothing medical professionals can do under the supervision of the doctor.. something that is nowhere, even in this bill. So it is necessary that this is explicitly arranged, written even in an appropriate regulation, something that needs to happen. Otherwise, we, as doctors, are not against individual practices, but not at all costs, but by strictly regulated regulations and procedures prescribed by the Minister of Health. Secondly, this applies not only to medical professionals, but also to what medical assistants can do, which this bill also concerns. Regarding the three procedures, what midwives can do in relation to the three procedures, so that with a clearly defined framework in the Law we can be calm and say: come in, medical assistants, nurses and midwifes, work! But we must give the framework and be calm that there will be no fouls regarding the health of patients.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u191	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. Would you like a line, Professor Mihailov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Dr. Genov, I deeply respect your surgical and medical experience over the years, but I would like to tell you that what you share and what is an absolutely unregulated practice, as you said, exactly I quote you: find a nurse who will come and, as my aunt said, will hit you an injection. These are things that, my God, you as an erudite doctor understand that carry many risks. This is where Associate Professor Chakarov told you these risks. Otherwise, if there was a philosophy in the Law, we had contacts with Italian centers, probably all of us here, even though they are not related to medicine, know that outside the medical establishment there is no blood flowing at all. In Italy this is regulated by law, but there are teams dealing with this thing, there are exported teams who also perform chemotherapy at home. This is already a philosophy that can be considered, and it requires specialized medical facilities. You are addressing a very important topic, but you did not develop it that this unit is missing in Bulgaria. Everyone in this room has had terminally ill loved ones, and you know what tragedy we fall into when they have nowhere to go. The hospitals do not want them, they are very expensive, they remain in the care of the family. And when there are little children, when there is a small living area, you know very well as an oncosurgeon what a tragedy happens. This would be the philosophy of developing health care if we turned, as Dr. Jeffer said at the beginning of his speech, to this kind of health care facilities and to this kind of services, especially in remote areas, where these things are extremely, extremely difficult. And to justify ourselves, I conclude that the management of the medical establishment is responsible, we open this door to it, if the Law allows it, it will be able to bear responsibility and will in no way be sanctioned by the Law. So all of these things need to be carefully reconsidered, and when they are proposed in a Bill, they need to be ironed and consensual. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u193	Thank you, Professor Mihailov. Would you like a douche? Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u194	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members. Dr. Naydenova, I would like to repeat if you would like to read that at the moment acts Decree No 1 of 8 February 2011 of the Ministry of Health, where for the professional activities is described: This could be updated, and there's no problem at all. As for Professor Mihailov's line regarding the previous answer. If necessary, a medical standard should be developed, as I said, to what level, what activities these so structured medical institutions can carry out. It is about nurses, midwifes and medical assistants, and then to make a common regulation and there is no problem. As regards whether a single management will be given the opportunity to change the activities of the company which manages, in the end, the audit, which may be in a medical establishment, does not only have a financial part, but there is such part whether the relevant actions have been legitimate, or whether they have violated the interest of the medically registered Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u195	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. Any other speeches? Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u196	Honourable Mr. Chairman, honourable Members. Colleagues have affected many of the times in the ZID of the Law on Medical Institutions, so I will try very briefly and rather in practical terms to consider some of the proposals made by the importer by the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Medical Institutions. One of the main objectives of the proposed legislative changes is to meet the commitments set out in Council of Ministers' Decision No 704 adopting measures to transform the model of administrative service or any measures related to reducing the administrative burden on businesses. As a doctor with administrative experience in the implementation of health legislation in the Ministry of Health system, I welcome the reduction of administrative burden with the proposed measures, and I will give a few examples. The colleague Genov is already talking about dropping the requirements of the applicants to grant a license to use sources of ionizing radiation for medical purposes when equipment with a source of ionizing radiation will be used at the medical facility. The proposed change, together with our colleagues from our group, is a very good proposal, and colleagues who are managers of hospitals or hospital care know what concerns we have until the time we receive such authorisation from the Nuclear Regulatory Agency. My observations are from a large part of the medical facilities in the country during accreditation. We all know that in this technological age, the equipment we use is much more precise, different from the one that was years ago, and that is why the proposal for RZI to exercise control over this activity within the framework of state health control is correct. You may know that there are several larger regional health inspections in Sofia, Varna, Plovdiv, Vratsa, Ruse, which have revealed directorates or departments of radiation control, and they are able to carry out preliminary and systematic health-radiation control of public-use objects that use sources of ionizing radiation. At another point, the information requested and its exchange between regional health inspections and regional health insurance funds. Colleagues are witnesses, especially when the negotiation process starts, what tensions there are on the part of doctors who appear to receive a certificate of failure in hospital care, and calmly this activity can be regulated and carried out by both administrations without burdening our doctors administratively. In addition, in order to reduce the administrative burden, we are assessing as positive the proposal to create explicit and clear regulations regarding the order in which hospital care facilities, medical and dental faculties of higher schools registered as training facilities, will be able to notify the changes in their registration, as well as to provide documents to the relevant administration. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u197	Colleagues, it's very noisy in this room and I'm going to ask you to keep your conversations down a little bit! Continue, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u198	The same procedure was proposed in order to reduce the administrative burden regime concerning certification of dental membership in the Bulgarian Dental Association. In addition, changes have been proposed to the regime for issuing authorisations to carry out medical activities and to facilitate the registration of medical establishments for outpatient care and hospice, which concern complex oncology centres, and in addition to the municipal ones so far, there is an opportunity to be disclosed by the state, and this procedure is in fact repeating the current one for hospital care facilities at the moment. This is described as stepping on the comprehensive assessment carried out under art. Art. 37a. 37b of the Medical Services Act based on the health indicators currently operating in the healthcare system, which analyzes the very thorough hospital care carried out on the relevant medical specialties, the number of exposed structures, the number of beds, including the number of beds made for the relevant year, analyzes the personnel and material security, the beds carried out, the patients passed, the use of beds and so on, analysing already paid activities in this kind of medical establishments. The topic on which our colleagues spoke most, we discussed today and in the Committee on Health, is the new kind of health care. Colleagues, I respect your opinions, I understand your concerns, but right now I think that our emphasis should be on some of the activities of course, based on the competences of medical assistants, midwives and nurses, with a focus on health promotion, health care, prevention and here can be safely included in the standards, and I hope that advice on raising young children who concern nutrition can be drawn up. There is a sufficiently broad aspect of activities that can carry out our colleagues from these three types of professions. I am convinced that, between first and second readings, we will indeed achieve a professional consensus with the concerns of all of us, we will discuss in detail these moments that we have marked today, we will make sure that the objectives set out in this bill are really achieved. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u199	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Even I couldn't hear you at the end of the speech, but I guess I'll see the transcript. Any lines to that statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Come in for a statement, Mr. Kolev. [[Noise.]] I'm just gonna ask you to wait a little bit to reduce the noise in the room, as it's really not being heard. If someone's discussion isn't interesting, at least don't let the others get in the way? Here you go, Mr. Kolev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u200	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Colleagues are discussing an important topic. Maybe they're talking about it and that's why it's loud in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u201	Probably.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u202	By analyzing what the problem is, what the problem is, why we have discontent in the system, I would very much like and call on my colleagues at first reading to support the Law. Between first and second reading, we can do everything possible to make sure that this capacity of medical professionals is used as much as possible in the direction of public awareness of the entire health care process. Health care. The very word "health" shows where we need to focus our efforts in the health protection process. Who can be those who inform society, specific patients and those who are in chronic and pre-chronic states about the correctness of the healing process, about the correctness of the health protection process, about how to track a chronicity, how and where they could be treated. Similarly, the question of post-hospital treatment is very important. It is these medical professionals who can actively participate in the information process for patients. That's why I set an example with midwifes. We have the course of a pregnancy, and even before pregnancy, they are the medical specialists who can actively be included in the information, of course, and in the Law, if it goes down, in the Methodology, and then in the Rules of Implementation of this entire process. Not in vain, the European Union requires us to inform patients about the whole process of curing the disease, about the whole process of health care. You can't do that! It's something we owe to society. The whole parliament and we have to think in this direction. Once the child has been born, these specialists can also participate in the process, if you wish, of awareness, if you will, lead by hand those who need information. I therefore call on my colleagues, I call on all of you: let us think about and think about how to inform patients through these specialists, how to put this under our laws, in our draft laws, so that we can untie their hands, give them freedom, think about the financial security of these specialists who will make this information flow and process! I am absolutely sure that all this will dramatically affect the reduction of the discontent of patients in the health system, will lead to a significant increase in the incomes of these health care professionals, because this is an additional kind of work that they need to do, will lead to mass contentment from the entire health care process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u203	Thank you, Mr. Kolev. Are there any lines? I can't see. Are there any other statements? I can't see. We're putting an end to this debate. We are going to vote on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Institutions, No 002-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers. Vote 151 MPs: 93 against 6, abstention 52. The motion is accepted. Mr. Mikhailov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u204	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I propose according to art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u205	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. They voted 147 MPs: 141, against 2, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Let's move on to the next point: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR TERRITORY TERRITORY ASSISTANCE. The importer of one bill is the national representative Spas Panchev, and the second is the national representative Julian Angelov and a group of MPs. The two reports of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government will present to us Mr. Popov. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u206	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe on Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction of the Area, No 054-01-6, submitted by Spas Panchev At a regular meeting held on 20 February 2020, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction of the Area, No 054-01-6, submitted by Spas Panchev on 23 January 2020. The bill was presented by the National Representative Spas Panchev. He stressed that the proposed bill is another legislative measure to reduce administrative regulation by facilitating the deployment of high-speed electronic communications networks in Bulgaria. In March 2018, the National Assembly adopted a whole new Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure, with which the deployment of high-speed fixed communications networks in already built physical infrastructure is carried out without permission for construction. The current draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction of the Area proposes that the technological renewal of reception and transmission mobile stations be carried out without issuing a new building permit when it is on a site already built and there are no substantial structural changes. The latter will be proved by the opinion of a certified engineer designer. The requirements and procedures for measuring electromagnetic emissions shall remain unchanged under the Health Act. Moreover, the current Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Structure of the Area requires that for each upgrade a new measurement of electromagnetic fields be made. Additional control shall also be introduced through an obligation for operators to present the constructive opinion and the protocol for measuring electromagnetic emissions in a specially established register of the Communications Regulation Commission. The register will provide official information to all relevant state bodies exercising supervisory and control functions, as well as transparency for citizens with regard to measured levels of electromagnetic emissions. In addition to the equal treatment of individual types of communications networks, the other main objective of the proposed legislative changes is the creation of an incentive for investment in high-speed networks and services. The development of new generation infrastructure requires the introduction of huge financial resources by private companies. The current construction regime requires that for any technological renovation of a mobile station a whole new construction permit is issued, and the process takes between six months and two years, as well as significant human and financial resources. Opinions were submitted to the Commission by the ministries and other departments concerned, as well as by the professional and branch organisations concerned, with all opinions supporting the Bill, with appropriate proposals for supplementing and clarifying individual provisions being made in some opinions. In the course of the discussion, support was expressed in the majority of the opinions expressed by the draft Law, and the need to refine individual provisions in view of the proposals expressed in the opinions was shared. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management with 14...................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u207	Thank you. Please proceed with the second report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u208	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe on a bill supplementing the Law on Construction of the Area, No 054-01-12, submitted by Julian Angelov and a group of MPs At a regular meeting held on 20 February 2020, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management discussed a Draft for Supplement to the Law on Structure of the Area, No 054-01-12, submitted by Julian Angelov and a group of MPs on 14 February 2020. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the MP Iskren Veselinov. According to the provisions of the Law on construction of the territory, cemetery parks are landscaped areas of other specific purpose complementary to the green system and in their dominant part are public municipal property. The lack of a legal framework for cemetery parks and funeral activities to regulate public relations related to mourning and ritual activities, the management of cemetery parks and the status of persons who can perform mourning and ritual services leads to the necessity of the proposed supplement in the Law on Structure of the territory. The arrangement of these relations is on a sub-legal level with regulations of municipal councils, which have different subjective scope and content. The proposed supplement in the Law specifies the scope and content of the matter which should be regulated by the regulations of the municipal councils. The bill will lead to better regulation at local level of the issues related to the management of cemetery parks, improving the quality of the services offered, ending vicious practices by incorrect companies, stopping the thefts and vandalism, as well as ensuring the tranquility of the citizens visiting the cemetery parks. In the course of the discussion, some of the opinions expressed support for the bill. Another part of the opinions shared the need for the matter to be settled by a special law on the basis of which municipalities would adopt the relevant regulations, taking into account the specific characteristics of the municipalities and their localities. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government with 11................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u209	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. The report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications will present to us Mr. Hristov. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u210	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction of the Area, No 054-01-6, submitted by the National Representative Spas Panchev on 23 January 2020. During a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 19 February 2020, a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Construction of the Area was discussed, No 054-01-6, submitted by the National Representative Spas Panchev on 23 January 2020. The meeting was attended by: Mrs. Andreana Atanasova, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mr. Ivan Dimitrov, Chairman of the Communications Regulation Commission, and Mrs. Kristina Hitrova, Secretary General of the Communications Regulation Commission. The bill was presented by Mr. Panchev, who pointed out that the proposed changes create prerequisites for reducing administrative regulation, easing the deployment of high-speed electronic communications networks and stimulating the investment of telecommunications operators in particular with regard to 5G infrastructure. It is envisaged that the technological renewal of reception stations in cases defined by law be carried out without a new building permit. Support activities, equipment and/or improvement of elements of reception and transmission stations will be carried out on the basis of an opinion of an engineer-constructor and an engineer with professional qualifications in the field of communications. In order to protect public health following technological renewal, measurement will be required in an accredited laboratory for compliance with the limit levels of electromagnetic fields and registration of measurements to the public health authorities. An obligation for operators to submit an application for registration of the activities carried out in the Communications Regulation Commission is envisaged. After the presentation of the bill, a debate took place, in which the MPs Georgi Svilenski, Pavel Hristov, Alexander Paunov, Halil Letifov, Ivan Valkov, Dimitar Danchev, Stanislav Ivanov, Andon Donchev and Martin Obreshkov took part. Discussion raised the question of how the envisaged legislative relief of the construction regime for technological renewal of reception stations will ensure the protection of human health from the effects of electromagnetic fields. After the vote, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 11 votes for the Council and 9 votes abstentions proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote the Draft for amendment and supplement of the Law on Construction in the Area, No 054-01-6, submitted by the National Representative Spas Panchev on 23 January 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u211	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Who will present the Health Commission Report? Mr. Tonchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u212	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It's your attention. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction in the Area, No 054-01-6, submitted by Spas Panchev 23 January 2020 At its regular meeting held on 20 February 2020, the Committee on Health examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction in the Area, No 054-01-6, submitted by Spas Panchev on 23 January 2020. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Svetlana Yordanova Deputy Minister of Health, Mrs. Andreana Atanasova Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, representatives of word and patient organizations in the field of health. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by Mr. Spas Panchev. The Bill proposes that the technological renewal of the receiving and transmitting mobile stations be carried out without issuing a new building permit when it is on a site already built and there are no substantial structural changes. The latter will be proved by the opinion of a certified engineer designer. The requirements and procedures for measuring electromagnetic emissions shall remain unchanged under the Health Act. This bill provides for the requirement to make a new measurement of electromagnetic fields for each upgrade. Additional control shall also be introduced through an obligation for operators to present the constructive opinion and the protocol for measuring electromagnetic emissions in a specially established register of the Communications Regulation Commission. The register will provide official information to all relevant state bodies exercising supervisory and control functions, as well as transparency for citizens with regard to measured levels of electromagnetic emissions. One of the main objectives of the proposed legislative changes is to create an incentive for investment in high-speed networks and services. This bill is a legislative measure to reduce administrative regulation by facilitating the deployment of high-speed electronic communications networks in the Republic of Bulgaria. The Committee on Health received opinions from the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Transport, Information Technologies and Communications, the Communications Regulation Commission, the Bulgarian Association of Cable and Communication Operators, the Bulgarian Association of Information Technologies and the Confederation of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria. All the opinions support the proposed amendments with the Bill and some of them make concrete proposals and recommendations for the clarification of individual provisions. Members of the Commission and Deputy Minister Atanasova took part in the discussion. The question of the impact of electromagnetic emissions and their impact on health and health environment was addressed. Mrs. Atanasova explained that in Bulgaria the standards for electromagnetic emissions are laid down in Ordinance No 9 of the Ministry of Health and they are ten times stricter than those applied in the other Member States and are defined on the recommendation of the International Committee for Non-ionizing Broadcasts. Bulgarian operators work in an environment with restrictions that are related to the emissions and power with which they operate. However, Bulgaria has an extremely good level of mobile communications, including 4G communications. Deputy Minister Atanasova noted that for the 5G network there is not yet sufficient data, but there is sufficient clarity regarding its technology. For example, an antenna that works in 4G ranges emits constant field tension, while at 5G there is a beam that focuses. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the Draft for Construction in the Area, No 054-01-6, submitted by Spas Panchev on 23 January 2020, the Committee on Health proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for Construction in the Area, No 054-01-6, submitted by Spas Panchev on 23 January 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u213	Thank you, dear Mr. Tonchev. Dear Mr. Panchev, an importer's opinion? You have the floor to present the opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u214	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! The proposed draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Structure in the Area is another legislative measure to reduce administrative regulation. The development of new generation infrastructure requires the introduction of huge financial resources by private companies. The technological renovation will cost the sector approximately 106 billion euros, which can only be mobilised through appropriate and timely state policy in each country - a member of the European Union. The proposed bill in this sense is essential for the competitiveness of the Bulgarian economy and municipalities and is part of the targeted policy for creating an appropriate investment environment. The current construction regime requires that for any technological renovation of a mobile station an entirely new construction permit is issued. The process takes between six months and two years, as well as significant human and financial resources. In view of the time limits laid down in the following documents of the European Union, the adoption of the proposed bill should take place as soon as possible so that Bulgaria can be equal to the other countries of the European Union. Firstly, the 5G for Europe: The Action Plan is intended to ensure that, by the end of 2020, at least one fifth generation local network is available in each of the Member States, and in the medium term, continuous 5G coverage is provided on the main transport corridors and areas of high socio-economic interest. The European funds planned for this are around 44 billion. EUR 33,5 billion for trans-European road corridors including 5G and 2.7 billion for 5G networks for municipalities. Therefore, the Bulgarian state and the Bulgarian municipalities have the opportunity to improve their road and communication infrastructure with European funds if they succeed through appropriate policies to mobilise private investment interest in the telecommunications sector, so that operators can build the necessary networks of a new generation. Secondly, the European Green Deal adopted by the new European Commission on 11 December 2019 attaches key importance to digitization to achieve sustainable development objectives in many sectors of the economy. The document shows that technologies such as "artificial intelligence," 5G, cloud services and the Internet of things can speed up and increase the impact of climate change measures and environmental protection. Digitalization provides new opportunities for remote monitoring of air and water pollution, for tracking and optimizing the use of natural energy sources... supplied In March 2020, the European Commission will adopt an industrial strategy of the European Union, whose project also places digital transformation among the main factors for growth of European economies. The proposed bill will not lead to an impact on the state budget and does not require administrative changes or the introduction of regulatory regimes and fees. I hope, honourable Members, that you will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u215	Thank you, dear Mr. Panchev. Mr. Angelov will present an opinion of the importer of the second bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the motives of the importers in order to submit this bill are as follows. The lack of a law on funeral activities to regulate public relations related to mourning activities, the management of cemetery parks and the status of persons who can carry out mourning and ritual services leads to the need for the proposed addition to the Law on Construction in the territory. The proposal enables municipalities to introduce criteria for carrying out a number of activities on the territory of cemetery parks. The aim is to establish a legal basis for the introduction of order in these parks of public municipal property, as well as for the management of them. The change will lead to the desired consequences of maintaining order in cemetery parks, protecting citizens' interests, creating and implementing clear rules for carrying out funeral-ritual activities, crossing abuses and violations. The draft law will lead to the regulation of issues related to improving the quality of service to citizens in the mourning work, improving the qualification of funeral workers, ending vicious practices by incorrect companies offering construction and quarrying services in the territory of these parks, stopping the thefts and vandalism, as well as ensuring the peace of the citizens visiting the cemetery parks. There is really a problem, especially in the cemetery parks. In the previous term, the Sofia Municipal Council had adopted a Regulation which regulates the activities in the cemetery parks. However, some of the companies that do not meet the requirements that do not have in any way certificates for being stoneworkers or any other, appeal this decision to the court and some of the texts of this regulation fall, and again all those fake companies that racketeering citizens, destroying and abuse people have returned to the cemetery parks. We've been waiting a long time for the Funeral Act. As far as I know, there is one prepared, but it hasn't been imported yet. We offer these texts so that we can give the municipalities in Bulgaria an urgent opportunity with a regulation to regulate these activities and not allow certain persons and companies to suppress the memory of the deceased, to racketeer, to mock the mourners. That is why we have made this proposal. It is high time for Bulgaria after 30 years of time in the cemetery parks to bring order and stop all these things that we have seen over the years that no one likes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u217	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. I'm opening the debate on both laws. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u218	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will take account of the first bill for a change for the Law on the Construction of the Area concerning 5G. Let's say what we do with this law, i.e. what you do, not even you, but colleague Spas Panchev, who is an importer of the bill. Interesting on such an important topic, on which, as we have seen, everyone is ahead of us in Europe, why are there no ministers? Why this law was not proposed by the Council of Ministers, as this should be a priority of the state.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u219	Are you questioning the right of a Member of the National Assembly to submit a bill?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u220	Why has it not been tabled by the parliamentary groups of the ruling majority? And I am not questioning the right of a Member of the National Assembly to submit a bill. However, these facts that I have said are disturbing, as you are trying to hide behind the back of a Member of the National Assembly. Now let's say what this is about. It is a question, ladies and gentlemen, of bypassing ZUT and of not asking for a construction permit for these facilities. To put it even in a simpler language: do not ask the owners of residential buildings whether they want to or not, whether they agree or not, as is currently on ZUT for any change, replacement, reorganization. Owners should know and agree that the corresponding change will take place at their cooperative and that this facility will be replaced by another one that they agree with. You want this thing not to happen. People don't know what's going on. Make some problems that I don't know who's gonna solve next. You want to accept hell-hock these proposals, although there are some documents required for this replacement, you want people not to know who gives the signature that is responsible for this thing, who will sign after the given operator has collected the necessary three or four documents from a medical laboratory, from an engineer constructor, who will ultimately give the permission for this replacement. The mayors have no part in what's being proposed. That is to say, the arguments that such reconstruction takes a long time, 13 " 14 " months, are not valid in this case. The fact that some municipalities are slowing down these things, that given architects or mayors are slowing down the issuance of these permits cannot be a reason to cancel these permits, to cancel this order in which permissions are issued. We, as a legislative body, can accept for 5G shorter time limits in the sense that when there is reconstruction, the term is three days, five days, seven days, not 18 months.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u221	There are no deadlines.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u222	There are no deadlines? I'm saying we can accept those. However, we cannot avoid the order in which construction permits are announced, the order in which construction permits are issued, and without anything, without any document, only on the grounds that 15 years ago something was built, to replace and to install new such stations. We will not support the bill. I call on my colleagues from GERB, from the United Patriarchs, from the DPS, from the Volya not to support it, but the government to submit the necessary legislative changes, whether through law or regulations, to move this documentation faster, to implement these reconstructions more quickly, rather than by abolishing any registration regimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u223	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. - What's the line? I can't see. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u224	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I will start a little further from what my opposition colleagues have expressed as an opinion. Indeed, at the moment, this type of construction is a very high category within the meaning of art. 137 of the LU and require an extremely severe procedure for their implementation. Subsequently, in addition to the severe administrative procedure they require, there is also a very difficult procedure for putting into service, a requirement for a state admission committee.. You all know what that means. There is no question about the need to alleviate this regime. In no case, however, we are not appealing or expressing an opinion that this should happen at the expense of citizens, at the expense of the local authorities. Moreover, as my colleague, the speaker before me, said several times: "You want......, you do not really know what we want, on the contrary, during the meeting of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management we have made it clear that changes are needed in this direction, but not in the way in which they are provided and presented to the MPs. We will, to a large extent, change this concept by putting forward proposals between the first and the second votes by definitely stating that the sanction of the local authorities and the sanction of the floor property, or the owner of the property, will not be excluded from this whole event. On the contrary, our texts will contain.. we have already considered them, we have commented with our colleagues, they will contain precisely this requirement and the owners, and the mayor will be informed in due order that such repairs could be carried out. There is no point in commenting on whether assistance is needed to implement the new generation of information technology. It is clear that the fifth generation of networks must be implemented. It is clear that we must give some more relaxed regime, but he, once again, should not be at the expense of the owners and at the expense of the local authorities who have their sanction. I call on my fellow Members to support the Bill of First Voting with the clear awareness and agreement that we will put forward proposals for a very serious, conceptual change between first and second and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u225	Thank you, dear Mr. Shishkov. A line? Yeah. The second line is Mr. Danchev, and the third line is Mr. Ivanov. After that, the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u226	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Shishkov, thank you for your position on the Bill. It is not different from ours, only the question here is: why do you support a bill which, according to you, and you have come to the conclusion that it does not work, that it is not worth it, and between first and second now we will be toweling it? Let's make a First Voting Act right! So we put a title with one text that we're going to remove between first and second votes, and we're going to start improving it?! What's the point? Let this bill be rejected and immediately our specialists and experts are ready, if you wish, to help in such a procedure! The other thing we do is circumvent the legislative process. Firstly, on the fast track through the MP, and, secondly, between the first and the second, a whole new Law. Who needs it? When I said you wanted to be right, I did not know what your position was, now I am satisfied that you also do not support the principle and meaning of this bill. The only thing we need to achieve as a consensus is to reject it, so that an hour sooner a new bill can be tabled to be viewed, and those things that you said to protect the rights of the mayors of municipalities, the rights of owners, the procedure to be relieved because I will return, I also told the Commission: the laws are laws to regulate public relations. Then, when it was accepted to be in such a category, to have such requirements, there was some meaning. Here our ancestors didn't accept them like this because they decided, but they solved some cases. Now we cancel them without absolutely no analysis of these things. Maybe you should change the category or something else, I don't know, but in an expert atmosphere, with specialists to sit down, calmly consider, get in and go the normal way. And not somehow between the first and the second, in some short or untimely time to support something you've also made sure it sucks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u227	Second line, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u228	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Shishkov, I do not know what should be done between first and second readings, what we should inform the local administration if you accept these changes that are being proposed, but I certainly know that such a change in legislation should not be made in the way you do it. At the very least, because this is a proposal that should come from the Council of Ministers, from the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and be accompanied, that is what you should do, perhaps between first and second reading, to submit an analysis that shows the damage and benefits possibly for the society of this change that you will do, respectively, to be accompanied by the necessary impact assessment. Impact on us, people, impact on local administration, impact on other legislation and other public relations. And really have an analysis of the stakeholders, because those gaps that you are talking about in the Bill, which you are now going to patch up between first and second readings in this way, are actually gaps that are the result of precisely this type of legislation, which is not accompanied by the necessary supporting documents of such an important Bill. Otherwise, if we are talking about whether we support the introduction of 5G technology, whether we are for the modernisation of telecommunications, of course there is hardly a reasonable person sitting in this room who does not support the development of technology, but let this not be done at the expense of other public relations and interests! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u229	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. Third line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u230	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Shishkov, perhaps you should have mentioned the opinion of the CRC because it is extremely important. In this opinion, Mr. Shishkov, if you had mentioned what it said that a register would be made, in which a register would be visible every second, if I could express in such a way what the broadcasting of the stations, what coverage they are doing and so on..... might have dropped the concern of colleagues, Mr. Shishkov. Because, Mr. Shishkov, colleagues so far say only that this is not the way a bill is introduced. We know that is not the case, we know that every MP has a legislative initiative. Why they say that I do not know, but their only opinion so far is that this is not how a bill is tabled and therefore the bill should not be adopted. So if you had mentioned the opinion of the CRC, perhaps you would have convinced them to support this bill. That's my line, Mr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u231	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Shishkov, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u232	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, thank you for your lines. I will begin in the order of your speech. Mr. Svilensky, I said for a reason that we support the philosophy of the Law as it is imported. We all agree, and I think you agree that a change is needed in order to reduce the administrative burden in the construction of this type of equipment. This I think is indisputable for everyone and no one denies it, and my colleagues in the Commission shared it during the meeting. With regard to the way the bill has been tabled, I think there is no point in commenting on it. It is clearly followed by absolutely all legal procedures, the opinions required by not less than seven or eight organisations, which all opinions, including the Association of Municipalities, give a positive opinion, which is a clear sign that we need to work on finding the right solution to solve this problem, so to speak. Yes, what is proposed is not the perfect text that we expect and what society expects, but we have a solution that I think we also have experts who could write clear and accurate texts to guarantee the life and health of Bulgarian citizens. Mr. Danchev, I think that as a young person, you should really support the initiatives that help build and improve new technologies, so thank you for your reply. But I would like to remind you that in the Bill, for the most part, texts concerning the health of people are written, that is, there are preventive measures that need to be taken, and subsequent controls that are written with clear texts, which says that measurements should be made that measurements should meet the requirements, and so on and so forth. They're in the Bill. Read it! With regard to health, I think that we absolutely should not speculate on the contrary, we have very clear insurance records. Rather, we should focus on changes that concern the notification and the way and the regime for the construction of these facilities by the local authorities, respectively by the owners of the property. Again, we have prepared ideas and within a few days we could submit them as proposals between first and second votes. Mr. Ivanov, I have already said: there is an opinion not only from the CRC, but from several other organizations that strongly support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u233	Thank you, dear Mr. Shishkov. Procedure Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u234	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making a procedure for extending working hours until the vote on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u235	On both bills?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u236	Yeah, both bills.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u237	I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 122 MPs: 85, against 33, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. We are continuing the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you are, dear Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u238	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the fully tabled bill, one of the main reasons is to reduce the administrative burden. However, I cannot understand why we are constantly talking about endless deadlines, and the Law on Construction in the territory precisely and clearly regulates the time limits, namely by submitting the application for building authorisation the time limit is 14 days. 144. It is also similar when the construction works are put into operation by submitting the application within a two-week period, the site must be put into service. This is the legislation currently in force. From two or three speeches we are constantly listening and hiding behind a reduction in administrative burden, a reduction in administrative bureaucracy, is clearly not a problem of the law, on the one hand. On the other hand, a sufficient number of opinions were read, in which all, I do not know why, were in favour. I've only taken two of the opinions out. One belongs to the Ministry of Regional Development, the other belongs to the Ministry of Health. I will allow myself to read them verbatim so that we can understand what we accept: in this regard we believe that the provisions of art. 151 - - - What is offered to us for 5G networks should be refined, as said by colleagues from GERB - yes, should be refined - it is not clear what will be subject to registration before the authorities of state health control. The next sentence is very good and how it will be verified that when carrying out activities the maximum levels of electromagnetic field are met, i.e. the Ministry tells us that it cannot guarantee that someone will really measure what will happen in these stations. This is the Ministry of Health, we're going to Regional Development. The proposed bill, namely art. 151, which we are trying to amend: These are the two opinions. I do not know why it is constantly spoken that all ministries agree with the so-provided bill. In reality, what does the bill provide? What is envisaged is not to issue building permits for sites, hiding it behind refurbishing, I think it was the word that has no regulatory definition, without touching or reconstructing existing reception and transmission stations, to build a whole new 5G network, in which there is nothing wrong. We may even need to speed up this process, but above all the issuance of building permits, especially in the floor property is very precise and clearly regulated in the Law on Floor Property how the consent of residents is taken, most harshly speaking, in order to be able to carry out a construction in ownership, because it is a construction in ownership. The most interesting thing about the Law on Floor Property, which is active, even if it is built, is that the roofs are explicitly described in this law, i.e. for summer cuisine we have to get a construction permit, but for a facility that the Ministry of Health cannot guarantee and the Regional Ministry believes is not the place in the ZUT, we release it on a fast track. And all of this hidden behind the reduction of the administrative burden, which turns out to be set up at UR. 14 days for building authorisation, 14 days for putting into service. It is a separate matter if the builders or people who build this network cannot prove that they are safe within a year or two or that they meet all the requirements and the entire investment process is going on, this is not a problem of the Law. So we will not support the Bill, and I hope you do not support it, even between first and second readings, so that it is substantially amended so that the rights of residents and health can be guaranteed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u239	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. - What's the line? Do you have a line, Mr. Svilensky? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u240	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Bonev, I am making a reply because you have read the opinions and they are clear that they are negative for this bill. It was said about an opinion of the CRC, and you did not mention it, where it is said that there would be a register. However, honourable Members, there is no way that the arguments for the adoption of a law could be the adoption of some future law that is not there, that is, if you wanted or if you wanted Mr. Panchev to make the law go in line with the opinion of the CRC, it was necessary in the Transitional and Final Provisions to be proposed in the Law on Electronic Communications that register. None of us or you have read about this register anywhere except in the CRC's opinion that there should be such a register, only it is not there. In other words, we are presented with some arguments to help pass the Law, only it is not in the legal peace that register. So, if someone had any intention of making such a register, it was right to be recorded in the necessary place. That is why I say that the Law is prepared incompetently and that there is no way to go from this foundation. Indeed, the right decision is a rejection now and follows a law making, and perhaps we should respect the opinion of the Regional Ministry, which said where it belongs. I'm not sure I can tell where it belongs.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u241	Second line, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u242	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Bonev! Mr. Svilensky, there's no way I can make a line for you, but I'm gonna start backwards. What you said about the register in relation to the opinion of the Communications Regulation Commission is our will. That is why we are legislators, so that precisely between the first and second votes these gaps can be cleared. This is an opinion of the Commission that we can implement in the legislation and I do not see any problem in this. Mr. Bonev, I think we speak the same language. There's no argument in this room that we need to develop this technology. On behalf of our group, I can state most categorically that we compromise with the health of citizens, with this being suddenly left out of the decision-making process, whether floor property or other owners, we will not allow it to be most responsible from the stand. But I don't think right now... The bill, by the way, is trying to cover a thesis of things, but it needs to be further developed so that indeed the bill meets the high standard that we should set ourselves. I think we speak the same language. I think that there are enough specialists in parliament who can prepare such texts that, indeed, on the one hand, ensure that each owner's right to have a relationship with what is happening over his roof or some territory, and, on the other hand, that citizens are calm, that their health will not be damaged, and nothing more. That's why I think there's nothing wrong with supporting the bill. It is not said that the bill will see what is said, in the light of the word, because between the first and second votes if, for example, our proposals are not adopted, then the bill will not come to an end. So let's try to do something working, see what happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u243	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Third line, Mr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u244	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Maybe I should take a personal explanation as both colleagues stare at me all the time they talk. I take that as a compliment. Actually, Mr. Bonev, we speak the same thing, but we say them differently. We all agree that there is obviously a need for change, but we all agree that we do not have to fix ourselves in art. 151, which you're doing right now. What impressed me, however, is that you started reading the opinions of the institutions, but read them a bit like the gospel devil, because you read only one fragment of what was said by the respective departments. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That's what it says on the phone. But everyone's principled position is that there has to be a change. So, as my colleague Nenkov said, let us sit down between the first and second votes, consider together with you, of course you will not be excluded from the equation, and find the right solution to this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u245	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. It's a hole, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u246	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Svilenski, in relation to the reply on the opinion of CRC. Yeah, that's right, maybe they will. I think they should have been done by now, because in the end, there is a single information point that has not been completed in any way. I'm gonna, I'm Well, the future's not over, and you never know if it's gonna happen. Mr. Nenkov, yes, I hope between first and second reading you change it. However, the majority is yours and you can count on our support as much as we have the expertise to do. Mr. Shishkov, perhaps you and I, yes, we do speak the same language. The passengers of the letters, which belong to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Ministry of Health, are that they support the spirit of the Law. But again, we come back to the fact that neither the Ministry of Health guarantees life and health and that it can make these measurements, and the Ministry of Regional Development believes that these texts are not at all about the Law on Structure of the Area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u247	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Nenkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u248	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I would also like to take account of the other bill submitted by my colleagues from IMRO by Julian Angelov and a group of MPs concerning the burial activity, the mourning-ritual, namely where is the problem? The problem is that in recent years, since I have been a Member of the National Assembly, there have always been attempts to make a specialized law that regulates the ritual-tour activity so that we can really avoid the abuses we have witnessed over the years back. The fact is that there is a serious problem in this area, and it is a fact that municipalities are trying in their own way to regulate this activity. Undoubtedly, the opposition that has always faced such a bill has led to the fact that at this stage we do not have such a bill, which is supported by the majority. We in our group will support the proposal of Mr. Angelov and colleagues from IMRO because he gives one stability. It does not solve the problem in general at all, but gives stability to the regulations that municipalities can adopt. I'm giving you an example. I looked at a statistic in Sofia Municipality that, for example, in the years when such a regulation did not exist, abuses and complaints from citizens to the Sofia Municipality were in the order of 400 "500" per year. Now that there have been attempts to establish such a regulation, complaints by citizens have declined to below 20. Of course, we know that such a bill, which regulates the establishment of a regulation, will not be the panacea, but will ultimately give stability, because the lack of a legal basis for establishing such regulations leads to the fact that the Administrative Court has, on several occasions, abolished the regulations created precisely on the grounds that there is no special law to regulate the establishment of these regulations. Therefore, at first reading, we will support the Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u249	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. Are there any lines, gentlemen? Do you have a statement? Mr. Genov, if there are no lines, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u250	Mr. Chairman, I was going to speak a little later, but I was provoked by Mr. Nenkov. Mr. Nenkov, I want to remind you... [[GERB's line.]] Well, if you hadn't extended your time, we'd be at home. I would like to remind you that you are one of the importers of a law in 2017, which regulates and tries to regulate this activity. Now it is clear that here we see culinary, behind-the-scenes arrangements to keep the coalition tight until the end of the term, we insert a wedge between one branch and another branch. You know what this is about, I can explain to my colleagues the stoneworkers against the undertakers, that's what this is about. In the motives of that law that you then proposed, they are all written in the opinions that were given and presented to the Committee on Regional Development and Public Works, by the Association of all funeral agencies. You neglected to say that there is a practice of the Administrative Court which has broken down all the regulations, almost all the regulations that municipalities have adopted to regulate this business. What do we do now? With laws and amendments to a structure in the territory we want to regulate trade relations! You say that with those who had regulations, things had improved. They haven't improved, Mr. Nenkov. In the regulations there are white prices, under the table there are black prices that and the children know it. And we're not gonna deal with this, the carelessness in this business and the mess that there is, the chaos that has it, with a change in the law. Well, a crazier mayor can offer the city council at the cemetery in Hicks to bury people from just one religion and write it in the ordinance. Is that possible? It's possible, Mr. Nenkov, there are such mayors, there are such municipal councils. Or he can record that the monuments will make them the company, for example, of colleague Stoyan Mirchev [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It won't make them anyone else. We're untied with this now...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u251	I'll give you the floor for a personal explanation, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u252	... supposedly putting the hands of the municipalities in order to do whatever they want. I remind you once again, let us see the practice of the Administrative Court on this matter. There are dozens of regulations that one by one fall precisely for not complying with the Law and violate the respective rights of the people. And lastly, I will give you an idea: the next time importers make such changes, they better get it through the Nuclear Energy Act. Somehow it's gonna sound more authentic because there's only greenery at the cemetery, and there's a term in ZUT for green areas. Here is the common between this proposal and the existing provisions of the Law on Structure of the Area. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u253	Thank you, Mr. Genov. A line? The line, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u254	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Genov! We do not support the Bill because I just said he will solve all such problems. But the fact is, there's a huge problem. The fact is that many people abuse suffering and emotional commitment to deceased people. That's a fact, and no one can argue with that. And the reasons why the regulations of these municipalities you are talking about fall is precisely because there is no legal argument to make these regulations sustainable. And we don't really want, by supporting this bill, to change or tilt the scales into who does the relevant work, but to delegate to the municipalities to do so. You can't assume someone's been guilty since before we accused the mayors or the councillors that they could abuse it. By this logic, any public, municipal and any employee can abuse. We cannot, by that logic, because of not accepting and not trusting the municipalities. We're always talking about decentralization, aren't we? We always want municipalities, especially in our committee, looking for a balance between common and municipal interest, so there is nothing wrong with delegateing to municipalities to do so. If, of course, we see that this is subsequently not working, nothing prevents it from being changed. The problem is that the Law, which you say, which I have signed up for, and even in the Forty-first National Assembly, I have also been involved, does not see the light of day, just does not happen. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u255	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Second line, Mr. Angelov. Third line, Mr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u256	Mr. Genov, I was at least hoping that we wouldn't go through the memory of the dead, but I guess there's politics to be made of everything. If you like to have this thing that's been going on in cemeteries for 30 years now, companies of marauders, companies, without having any experience, technique, specialists and so on, to fuck with people's memory and to racketeer the mourners, say it. This is not a war between undertakers and stoneworkers, and this is a regulation which was made by Sofia Municipality and nearly two years had solved these problems to a large extent, but because of a judicial decision these texts of the regulation were dropped. So we don't offer anything different, we offer what worked and was working. I don't want marginal groups running around graveyards all the time, pretending to be builders, stealing plaques, breaking memory records, blackmailing people, and then putting them up. If you want this thing, let me know.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u257	Thank you. Third line, Mr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u258	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Genov! You've just insulted the entire local government. From the National Assembly stands you said that the local government is not competent to adopt a regulatory act. And all of us, or at least most of us, have been in this local government, know what is the order under the Law on Legislative Acts to adopt any act of law.. There is a public discussion, a majority is needed and everything else that is happening in the National Assembly. So let's not underestimate the municipal councillors, respectively the mayors of municipalities. Moreover, what we have as information is that until the time when this regulation was in effect on the territory of Sofia Municipality, the complaints against such actions for 2018 and 2019 are seven in two years. Before that, the complaints were 450 a year. Anyone can do the math for what it's all about. And I will conclude by saying that we are not closing the door for new legislation. You too, as MPs, have the initiative to submit a bill to regulate these relations, and we are ready to consider it. Until then, there must be a regulation of the local authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u259	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. You have the right to an asshole, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u260	To Mr. Angelov. Mr. Angelov, I don't know if I'm lifting anyone from the other side, but let's not do business through politics. Politically speaking, when lobbying repairs serve business interests, it shines and is extremely unpleasant. And with regard to the jurisdiction of the municipalities, the court wrote it. Mr. Shishkov, you said that the municipalities underestimated them and insulted them. If I've offended anyone, I apologize. I rule out those who have been returned to the court's regulations, but this is the court's finding that there is no forensics and there is no law! You witnessed the words of my respected Petya Avramova, who said that the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works is preparing such a law. Why are we in a hurry now? So we're in a hurry to please someone for some reason, like the first amendment with the antennas. But the antennas on the cemetery parks just look alike. So we are not going to support this particular amendment. We expect the new Law, we will join it if we have such expertise, because matter is quite complex, but hopefully it will happen in this term. I don't understand rushing. Maybe you have surveillance in Sofia Municipality, maybe you're right. I don't have surveillance there, but I have surveillance of what's going on in the territory of a lot of municipalities. Mechanisms are being given in the hands of local authorities to make decisions that will limit trade relations. Understand that! They were witnesses, go for a walk, ask. Then let's make one law only for Sofia and leave the others in drift. From here we should not regulate the relations throughout the country because of the observations we have in Sofia. Mr. Angelov, my respects to you as an importer because I saw that you signed at the front, but I can't understand the rush. Stand up, explain it! Mrs. Avramova declares that soon this law will enter, will be put to public discussion, will go along with the order needed. This is also the request of the various associations representing the companies involved in such activities. I'm not saying anything new. Maybe you haven't heard it, but they're definitely against the regulation in this way of relationships. Firstly, in the first member of the Law on Construction of the territory it is written that it deals with a device in the territory, investment intentions and control over them, and here this contradicts the logic of the law itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u261	Thank you, I patiently waited for you. Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u262	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I did not intend to speak on the bills, but I really do not understand the opposition of MPs and the claims of one MP that the whole group will not support such a bill. I personally, as well as the colleagues who have signed, have made numerous meetings with municipal councillors, with people who are familiar with these problems, people who have introduced us and why they have dropped the texts in their regulations to regulate the activities there. It was something that was accepted and worked. We don't want anything new, and we want there to be a legal text about something that worked. We don't force municipalities to change their practices. It depends on them what decision each municipality will make. That's the truth. What was the hurry? There's no rush! There are municipal councils with regulations, there are texts that concern these things, somewhere they are appealed and dropped out, elsewhere they have not appealed, so the practice has it. Personally, I don't think this can go on any longer! The law has been prepared, we all know, but when will it enter the Chamber, when will it pass at first reading, when will it pass at second reading? On all the topics that will be affected in this bill, there will be disputes and perhaps this will happen in the other Parliament, it may not happen in this Parliament. Given that there was good practice, I don't see the problem of supporting something that worked and really putting some sort of order in the cemetery parks. And I'll ask you again: if you like this thing that's been happening at the cemeteries for 30 years, this vandalism; fake companies; people who stand and wait for the mourners to blackmail them; who break the monuments and then make them new; people who don't have any certificate of work, that he's a stoneworker, that he's a graduate of some school, that he has a higher education and can make monuments, before they're stolen from the cemeteries, because they stand there, steal, break, export, process, and that the law allows them. If that's what you want him to do, let me know.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u263	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. The line, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u264	Mr. Angelov, no, we don't want this to happen like we did in 30 years, so we want a law. Then, since you are so worried, let us take steps to strengthen in some way the security of these cemeteries, not to allow this vandalism, not to allow phantom companies to lie to the citizens and all the other disabilities you have listed, and you are focusing on the municipalities having one regulation. Does the name Tsvetan Antov from the Stoneworkers' Association ring a bell? He won't talk to me, but I'm talking... We are opposed to those handicaps that occur, which are present in funeral activities and in the activities of companies. We want them to have certificates, we want them to be correct to the loved ones of the deceased, but we want this to be done by law, not right now, as they say: at once, by hurrah! You still couldn't explain the rush. You insist on order. Here, I direct your attention to other directions of video surveillance in cemeteries, increasing security, forcing municipalities in these regulations to increase their security, not allowing theft, not allowing vandalism, not allowing the theft of monuments, breaking of monuments, and we are going here in what direction and in what idea. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u265	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Mr. Veselinov, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u266	Dear Mr. Angelov, I think you should develop your speech in some directions. It's obvious that BSP is against irregularities. In fact, they are against two things: one is that there are irregularities in the cemeteries, and, secondly, to do anything to overcome these irregularities. In this case, what you may need to explain further and add to your speech is that the most legitimate, legal way of settling relations is used through a legal delegation. We delegate to the municipalities the right to govern themselves something that I think we all want. Everything on video surveillance, security and so it is something that is the operational activity of the municipalities, is not the National Assembly, and here to make speeches in this direction is more than ridiculous. I would also like to add and hear in your motives really more information about the series of cases of dropped municipal regulations precisely because of the lack of legal text to empower them. I would also like you to share why it is in the Law on Construction of the Area. In it we are talking about green systems. Those who haven't read the Law of Structure in the territory obviously don't know that some of the green systems are cemetery parks. This is exactly where this text belongs. In this direction, I would like to hear a little more motives from you. Otherwise, I fully support the proposed proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u267	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. I can't see a third line. You have the floor for the back, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u268	Mr. Veselinov, you're very right about the things you said in the stands. Indeed, the problem is that there is no legal basis for municipalities to regulate these activities. For this reason, this text, this bill, has also been proposed, so that the municipalities can really regulate these activities on the basis of law. Nobody wants anything illegal, something bad! Mr. Genov, what you said about security, video surveillance, it has nothing to do with this job. From this point of view, tell me right now how the security or management of a cemetery park or even cemetery parks can expel a particular firm, for example, which has a document that is a company that conducts commercial activity in the cemetery park and offers services to citizens? On what grounds are you going to kick them out of the cemetery park? The idea is such that these companies who really want to work, meet certain requirements and in no way get what is currently the defamation of the memory of the deceased and the racketeering of the mourners! That's it! The other thing I'm going to say is, yes, I've heard of Tsvetan Antov. I think he was captain of the national basketball team.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u269	Thank you. To speak, Mr. Shopov. I give you the word with my heart. [[Radio.]] I've prepared my rules, Mr. Shopov. I'm asking you to be a coworker.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u270	This time, Mr. Chairman, I won't even be on edge! I want to explain to all of you and especially to Mr. Genov what this is about. He asked a lot of questions. He wondered all the time: why here, why now, why this way? Mr. Genov and fellow Members, I'll tell you a few things from the kitchen. There are some topics, some questions that sometimes mean nothing, which sometimes mean things that are important, but they are put not for anything else, but to get up in the air and five or six people from one party for a week or ten days are constantly on TV screen. This party has a good PR. [[Replying, shouting.]] He's going to negotiate appearances...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u271	Mr. Shopov, I'm paying attention to you...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u272	Mr. Chairman, what have I said so far? You see, colleagues recognize each other. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u273	No, no! Mr. Shopov, on the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u274	They're starting to complain. So, dear Mr. Chairman, I make political qualifications, I speak my mind. Colleagues are much more obscene. I'm not even on edge this time! I would also like to explain to the government of GERB what they are... [[Noise and lines.]] They understand me very well. You're smiling very well, Mr. Nenkov! You know what I mean. It hasn't been just that lately... The question of the two days of vacation was raised very soon. We saw them! They're on duty!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u275	Mr. Shopov!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u276	Five, six, seven people talk every night, beat up! Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, That's politics and propaganda!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u277	I'm warning you!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u278	I have time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u279	I warn you that you are deviating from the issue under discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u280	No, I'm not. I'm explaining to Mr. Genov what this is about.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u281	And that's according to art. 57, para. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u282	This, honourable Members, is a very important issue. I myself, in a circle of people, from friends, to all of them, am a sort of chief priests, weddings, funerals, and I know the problems that people have in this relationship, but in this way, the question is posed, it has a very narrow, pure propaganda significance. And on that point they turned back the same way on TV, showed up, spoke their opinion, campaigned, talked. There was one question, I'm making an analogy, Mr. Chairman, in speech policy, an analogy is very often used, allegory, allusions. Changes were made to the Beekeeping Act. The beekeepers came from the organizations, they didn't want them, they wondered why. We have, say, a problem concerning sprays, it is regulated in the Law, but they were begged, asked: but let him enter, let him see this Law, and nothing may be accepted, and nothing will come out! The question was the Law to rotate, to show activity, to show image! And now it's no different from any previous case. And all of us here are currently engaged at the end of work hours! I'm not speaking essentially good or bad is the offer. But that's the goal! I'm talking from the kitchen! And that's why, in "United Patriarchs," when we proposed bills, let's sign them together, let's go out with them, no! There was a party selfishness here, and I'm telling you again: it's from five or six or seven people on a TV screen every night! They beat up, they talk, they talk about it to be accepted and taken into account, fellow Members!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u283	Mr. Shopov, thank you. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u284	Mr. Genov, that's the point of the class.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u285	Mr. Shopov, please come to me now.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u286	On our initiative, I say to IMRO, this law has been passed, which solves terrible problems.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u287	Thank you. [[Loud noise, lines.]] You have the floor, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u288	Mr. Shopov, I know what this is about. I'm not just saying it to the end! There's no time. We're gonna have to explain this for a long time. Mr. Shopov, I know Tsvetan Antov from Pleven, the captain of the national team. I said one name on purpose. It is about Antov, municipal councillor in Sofia Municipality, to make a statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u289	We continue with the speeches. In the manner of conduct, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u290	I'll be very brief. Mr. Chairman, in the manner of conduct. When speaking colleagues from this tribune on certain bills, as well as under the Beekeepers Act, let them declare a conflict of interest, because, as far as I know, Mr. Shopov has four hives on the ceiling of the block in which he lives. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u291	Thank you. Are there any other statements? Mr. Mirchev, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u292	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I think I will return the topic of Mr. Panchev's proposal, as some of the negotiators talked about lobbying and others talked about the philosophy of the Law. I will somehow try to unite them to get to the essence of Mr. Panchev's proposal. Of all those who have spoken, it has become clear that there will be no longer any way to control whether it is harmful or not harmful to broadcast this network. Not to mention that in society, there is still no strong opinion whether they have any bad influence on people or not the networks of a new generation. Instead of looking for a way to resolve this issue and to find out whether they are useful or not, whether they are harmful or not, to overcome people's fears, if they are artificially created, we do not do this. We take away the right of free choice of Bulgarian citizens whether to have this antenna from a new generation of their bloc, giving investors the opportunity to cover the replacement of old equipment with new equipment and to say that it is just new equipment, it is not new technology, it is not a new generation of technology and so on. On this point, Mr. Shishkov, we have no different opinion, as far as I understand from your statement. We have a difference in the way we are going to vote. This is where we come to the lobbying and philosophy I was talking about at the beginning. The philosophy of the Law is pure lobbying. This lobbying has one person and this is the relevant importer. I'll tell you why this clearly proves my point.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u293	Mr. Mirchev, I ask you: do not make any suggestions regarding MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u294	Yes, when a colleague moves through the corridors, we all know that he does not move without some incentive. We know how it is used by different parties and different economic groups, which are not part of the group from which it entered this Parliament, so it is now independent, and we know that it must be very strongly stimulated. Lobbyism with him is highly pronounced.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u295	Mr. Mirchev...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u296	I don't understand why you're closing your eyes!? The changes you say you will propose between first and second readings will not change the essence of this lobbying, they will try to smear it and simply lie to Bulgarian citizens that this is not a lobbying law and that it does not violate their interests. In conclusion, your stubbornness speaks only of one thing. I can't be 100% sure, but you have made some commitments, which the procedure itself of these commitments is recovery and completely reject the process of receiving. You obviously don't want to return what you took to make the appropriate commitments. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u297	Dear Mr. Mirchev, you are making unacceptable suggestions with regard to MPs, if you know what I mean. Mr. Panchev, you have the floor for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u298	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Mirchev, on the basis of art. 147 of the Rules I say that I have no conflict of interest, I have not entered into negotiations with anyone, I have not received any incentives. What I have done and proposed as a Draft Law is based on what I know as information about the activities and work of mobile operators. I guarantee you that I do not know any of the mobile operators, I do not have any contacts and contacts with them, but I am telling you clearly and correctly: it is unacceptable in modern Bulgaria, which is part of the European Union for so many years, to comment on such things. Something that can't really be done in 14 days can be delayed from six to twenty-four months and we, although we are a country with one of the best developed mobile networks and 4G in Europe, have such relations with both mobile operators and the 5G perspective. 5G perspective, fellow Members, is something without which the future cannot. If we are left behind, and we are now the last in Europe to adopt and build 5G, and it does not suit us, because Bulgaria has always been famous and I have always been proud... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating, Mr. Chairman. We are obliged to support the perspective, future and work that will be done without us, but we are therefore chosen by the people to support good practices and the development of something without which Bulgaria cannot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-27.u299	Thank you, Mr. Panchev. We continue with the speeches. I don't see anyone who wants to make a statement. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I will put to the vote successively, separately, the two bills in the order of their submission. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Construction in the Area, No 054-01-6, submitted by the National Representative Spas Panchev. Vote 131 MPs: 87, against 36, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote a bill supplementing the Law on Construction in the Area, No 054-01-12, submitted by the National Representative Julian Angelov and a group of MPs. They voted 130 MPs: 85, against 13, abstention 32. The motion is accepted. I will present to you the Parliamentary Control Communication on Friday 28 February 2020: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva will answer one question from MP Christian Vigenin; 2. The Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov will answer two questions from the MPs Rumen Gechev; and Georgi Gokov, Filip Popov, Anastas Popdimitrov, Vasil Antonov, Krum Zarkov and Stoyan Mirchev and one question from the National Representative Pavel Shopov; 3. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer seven questions from the MPs Dora Yankova; Evdokiya Asenova; Smilyana Niva; Nikolay Boshkov; Manol Genov, Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev; and Kolyo Milev; 4. Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov will answer eight questions from the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; Nikolay Ivanov; Daniela Dimitrova; Kolyo Milev; Nikolay Tishev; Manol Genov; Devdet Chakarov, Ahmed Ahmed, Adlen Shevked, Errol Mehmed, Sevim Ali and Jayhan Ibryamov; and Dzhevdet Chakarov; 5. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov will answer a question from the National Representative Dora Yankova; 6. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva will answer two questions from the MPs Violeta Jeleva and Nadia Klisurska-Zekova; 7. The Minister of Justice Danail Kirilov will answer a question from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Alexander Simov; 8. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer a question from the National Representative Evdokiya Asenova. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to three questions with written answer from the MPs Irena Anastasova; and Elena Pesheva to two questions; - Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov to a question from the National Representative Kristian Vigenin; and to two questions with written answer from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova; and to a question from the MPs Elena Pesheva and Krastina Taskova; - the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to two questions from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; and to two questions with written answer from the MPs Georgi Dinev; and Mikhail Hristov. For lack of respectable reasons, Members of the National Assembly shall postpone the responses to: - one question from the National Representative Christian Vigenin to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev; - a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Desislava Taneva. Due to the country's absence in the parliamentary control session, Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will not participate. Due to the use of annual leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister for Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will not participate. The next regular plenary session will be on 28 February 2020 at 9.00 in accordance with the adopted work programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
