ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u1	Colleagues, there's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, I ask those who will be involved in the debate to take their seats. Please stand through a chair, as we have agreed at the Conference of Presidents, the other colleagues to wait in the couloirs and in the rooms. Maybe they'll go outside. After this point, the vote will be immediately, and from this point forward, the first vote on the three bills is passed. Then I will announce a 30-minute break so that the MPs can gather and vote in groups. The agenda will not be voted on because the sitting is on the order of the President and is called on a special agenda, which I will present to you at the moment: I call an extraordinary plenary session of the 44th National Assembly on 3 April 2020, Friday, at 14:00 on the following agenda: "1." Draft decision to supplement the decision on the work of the National Assembly during the emergency situation announced by a decision of the National Assembly. 2. Draft decision to extend the declared state of emergency. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 3. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020. 4. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act. Importer (s) of the People's Representative Valentin Nikolov, on 31 March 2020 5. The First Voting of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by the National Assembly Decision of 13 March 2020. Importers supplied by the National Representatives Krasimir Tsipov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 2 April 2020. Please don't gather next to each other, please! [[It addresses the left side of the room.]] Colleagues, before we go to point one, I'm going to read you some messages. Bills and draft decisions entered into force from 26 March 2020 to 3 April 2020: Report on the Commission's activities on countering corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property for 2019. Importer "The Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property." It is allocated to the Commission for the fight against corruption, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics. Draft Law for Supplement to the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Report on the activities of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination in 2019. Importer is the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. It has been assigned to the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Report on the activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission for 2019. Importer is the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. It has been allocated to the Energy Commission. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act. Importer is the national representative Vasil Nikolov. The Committee on Energy is the lead. Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2019. The Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria is the importer. It has been assigned to the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Annual report of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data for its activity in 2019. The Commission for the Protection of Personal Data is the importer. It has been assigned to the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. Report on the activities of the Council for Electronic Media for the period 1 January 2019 "31 December 2019. Importer is the Council for Electronic Media. It has been allocated to the Committee on Culture and Media. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency Situation, announced by a decision of the National Assembly by 13 March 2020. Importers supplied by the People's Representative Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A bill to amend and supplement the Law on Underground Treasures. Importer is the Council of Ministers. There's a distribution coming up. Annual Activity Report of the State Agency "National Security" for 2019. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is assigned to the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. Draft decision on the extension of the declared state of emergency. Importer is the Council of Ministers. Annual report on the activities of the State Agency "Research" for 2019. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is assigned to the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. Draft decision to amend the National Assembly's Decision on Work during the emergency situation announced by decision of the National Assembly,................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 26 from 2020 Messages: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that by order he has authorised the dispatch and use of an aircraft with crew from the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria and a military doctor of the composition of the Air Force to provide air transport for the needs of the Joint Command of the Medical Evacuation Forces of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria participating in the stabilizing forces of NATO in Kosovo, on a route from Sofia airport to Pristina Airport, the Republic of Kosovo and vice versa, on 26 March 2020. The provisions of the Law have been notified to the competent state authorities. The notification was received on 26 March 2020. No 003-09-29 and granted to the Defence Committee. In the National Assembly on the basis of art. 133, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act received reports on the implementation of the Programme Budgets for 2019 by the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Youth and Sport, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the State Fund. The reports are made available to the Budget and Finance Committee and to the relevant portfolio committees and are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. According to the Law on the Fiscal Council and the automatic corrective mechanisms in the National Assembly, an Opinion of the Fiscal Council on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance and was available to the National Representatives in the Library of the National Assembly. Colleagues, we're going to point one: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ACCEPT A DECISION ON THE WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING IN THE TIME OF THE EXTREME POSITION, EXPLAINED BY A DECISION OF THE PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING, REFUNDED, SG No. 26 out of 2020. Importers srasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs. Mr. Tzipov, please come in for an opinion of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! A group of MPs submitted a decision to supplement the decision on the National Assembly's work during the emergency situation announced by a decision of the National Assembly. I will briefly present what the Project for a Decision is: Project! DECISION The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria concerning a decision of the National Assembly declaring a state of emergency of 13 March 2020 and in view of the recommendations of the National Operational Headquarters established by Order No P-37 of 26 February 2020 of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED In the decision on the work of the National Assembly during the state of emergency, announced by decision of the National Assembly (SG. 22 from 2020), n.o.b., SG No. 26 of 2020, amended, No. Point 6 shall be inserted from 2020. It's six. During the emergency situation, the following special rules shall apply in the work of the National Assembly: 6.1. the President of the National Assembly shall distribute the draft laws submitted only to a committee responsible and the draft acts adopted in one vote to only one committee; Article 6.2. 45, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall not apply; 6.3. the establishment of a quorum before the opening of a plenary session shall be carried out through the computerised voting system, with the registration of the Members of the National Assembly starting 1 hour before the starting time of the meeting; 6.4. In the deliberations on a agenda item in the Chamber shall be attended by the Members of the Committee responsible and other Members of Parliament, with the recommendation of not more than 1/4 of all Members of the National Assembly at the same time; 6.5. Following the closure of the deliberations on the agenda items for the meeting, the President shall set the starting time for the vote on the first-vote drafts and drafts of acts adopted in a single vote which may not be earlier than 30 minutes after the end of the last debates. The vote shall be carried out by means of the computerised voting system on a timetable set by the Chair and the Members of the National Assembly shall be duly divided into two groups which shall vote consecutively in the Chamber. Upon completion of the vote, the results shall be established and summarised by the Secretaries of the National Assembly and transmitted to the President, who shall announce them during the same meeting. 6.6. The time limit for written proposals by Members of the National Assembly for bills adopted in the first vote shall be 24 hours; 6.7. When considering bills of a second vote, the vote shall take place after the submission of the reports of the leading committees and the debates on them. The President shall set the starting time for the vote on the drafts discussed, which may not be earlier than 30 minutes after the final debate has been concluded. The vote shall be carried out by means of the computerised voting system on a timetable set by the Chair and the Members of the National Assembly shall be duly divided into two groups which shall vote consecutively in the Chamber. The vote of each group shall be chapter by chapter, section by section or text until the content of the relevant second vote report and the proposals made during the debate is exhausted. After the vote is closed, the results shall be established and summarised by the Secretaries of the National Assembly and transmitted to the President, who shall announce them during the same meeting. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! The draft decision was discussed at yesterday's afternoon meeting of the Conference of Presidents. Corrections were made by the members of the Conference of Presidents. For this reason, I appeal to you to support it, as it creates rules for work that are also in line with the recommendations of the National Operational Headquarters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u3	Thank you, Mr. Tzipov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u4	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! This is the third time we have changed our decision to work under the conditions of emergency within less than three weeks. The first time we found the necessary balance to reduce the intensity of our work without going into emergency mode. A few days later you found a way to stop the normal work of the National Assembly. Now you're looking for a way to release parliament again, even if only for a few days. We have been constructively involved in the efforts to find a way of safe work in the face of an epidemic, but today we will not support the solution that has been proposed. It gives a relatively acceptable mechanism for action, but does not solve the two fundamental problems that we reject.. First, the fact that it confirms the extraordinary regime of work with extraordinary meetings convened by the President of the National Assembly and, secondly, confirms the refusal of parliamentary control, as would be useful for Parliament and for the citizens we represent here. For both of you, you have no particular arguments, especially with regard to the latter. There is no threat to a minister and MP in a room for 240 people. This decision is not about the safety and security of the MPs, but it is about the desire to contribute to the full comfort of the government for the period of emergency. Ms. Karayancheva, I address you as Chairman of the National Assembly. Parliamentary authority is very difficult to build. Under your leadership, we rarely give cause for respect. Crisis in itself gives a chance to prove itself and to see the true value of both people and institutions. Unfortunately, the National Assembly failed this test and today we are more hated than ever. I'll give you two examples of why. At a time when hundreds of thousands of Bulgarians in enterprises continue to work, we close. See how the cashiers work in the shops, the drivers in the public transport, the cops. What are we more valuable to not continue our work? Not to mention doctors and medical staff in general who, at the risk of their health, continue to be on the front line, to care for us, including and despite the spells, continue not to be equipped with the necessary protective equipment. We abdicate. At a time when tens of thousands of people are without income on unpaid leave, some because they are closed by order, others to watch the children stopped from school, the National Assembly, along with ministers, president, members of state committees and so on on on an automatic mechanism increase their salaries. On top of that, in our case - without working or at least without working in normal mode. The calls for empathy with the suffering of many of the Bulgarian citizens were called by you. You apologized, but, unfortunately, excuses won't get to people. It's not just hate, it's rage against all of us. Although it is your responsibility above all else, we would not want to carry it, but we are forced to. We are also aware that today and Monday are our last meetings for a very long period. The government wants and will surely get full freedom, first of all, to do what it finds to be good until May 13 at the time of the prolonged state of emergency, and, secondly, to take and spend 10 billion. lv. loans as you see fit, which we will do with the budget changes. We are becoming from the supreme institution of the Republic to the institutional addition of the Prime Minister. The Bulgarian Socialist Party, the BSP parliamentary group, does not accept this. We will not applaud and assure you that when the time comes, we will show you how it should be and how a respected national assembly should work. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u5	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? [[Replications between the MP Lachezar Ivanov and the MPs from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Calm down! Mr. Ivanov, leave it. Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u6	Madam President, honourable Members! Only the right and pragmatic solution for the way to work safely of the National Assembly, and to this day I see that it has been given by the Political Volya party and no one has ever allowed themselves to say anything publicly or even with a mockery to oppose it, and the bad thing is that we do not see anyone coming up with a better one, namely the work in the other room, every MP with his own board, personally and by name, safely for himself and for all other MPs, and for all Bulgarian citizens to vote on all the issues, Expeditively, participates in the discussions, because there is no problem that all this is conferenceal, even with video signals, not only to hear each other, can go their debates normally. Anyway, apparently this won't be accepted. We have to go to the way that's being offered up to the point that's still something. I take this opportunity to say that if Mr. Vigenin and his colleagues from BSP for Bulgaria are feeling most hated in all times, since they are representatives of the National Assembly, let us not be placed under a common denominator, because I personally feel very loved at the moment. My Facebook page is open, you can go in and see what it's about. I have no intention of feeling unaccepted and unloved at all, because here some others have done nothing in their lives and feel unapproached and hated. Not only that, I'm going to go a little further than that, but God forbid we ever have to see once again how you rule. We've seen it several times over the years. I will not forget the 1991 crisis when I had to line up in Red Cross lines so that we could somehow help feed my first child, how with a small bireotane stove we had to heat the entire apartment, naturally not heat it, but slightly break the temperature. So, Mr. Vigenin, me, and I think a large part of society, which is why these are the results of the election, we pray that you will never come to power again. I don't want to, I think, and much of the Bulgarian people, we don't want to see what will happen when you don't give yourselves a god. We've seen this before. I wish you a little more humility, a little more dedication to work for the benefit of the Bulgarian people. And if you want to be one, so you can really understand how your constituents live, how they endure, what they are doing now, not freezing at a level of 5,000. BGN, a minimum wage. Even I am more extreme of a minimum pension to see if there will be MPs who will vote for 220 BGN. Retirement at the moment. Our proposal is to go in such a direction as to return all wages until we make such decisions that we can help the Bulgarian people not only survive, but also develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u7	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. - What's the line? Here's a line for you, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u8	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Mareshki, I am making a reply to you because we also had a proposal to have another room in which to meet the National Assembly and continue its work as a collective supreme body of the Republic. But, I think, from the previous debate you did not understand the idea of colleagues from GERB. Their idea is not to find a hall and a way to continue the work of the National Assembly. Their idea is for the National Assembly not to work. And that is why there really is no way such an appropriate idea as yours to be realized, because the issue is not technical, it is constitutional and political. In the previous debate it became clear how they want to drive without dialogue, without control, with contradictory and inappropriate measures often to prevent the complex situation in which Bulgarian and not only Bulgarian society is located. As for love and hate, love has no alternative, Mr. Mareshki. In this situation, love will save us, to tell you the truth. And the third thing I wanted to say to you: every party and every government has its trials in government. You must also have the hope of participating in the executive power, and this is normal for any party. I hope the chance will give you a chance to participate in a peaceful time. It is not easy for today's government, and the governments of the Bulgarian Socialist Party in the early 1990s, when it collapsed a world order, was also not easy. So with a little more understanding can continue this parliamentary debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u9	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u10	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Jablyanov, I love you... [[Radio.]] It's for love. ...but as a person, not as a member of the National Assembly from the BSP for Bulgaria. I do not know what the motives of colleagues from GERB are. If they really are as gloomy as you have carried them out, we will not support such a thing from the National Assembly. We will support the National Assembly to work in emergency measures and to make the important decisions for Bulgaria and the Bulgarian people. I use the case, in my previous statement I did not note it, to tell Mr Vigenin: can only the last parliamentary control think of a question that has been asked? And what's so important besides the cameras that transmit it? The important questions that he has with each minister should be asked in writing. Moreover, then the answer remains and it is clear who is in charge of the substance, and who is exposed? It is absurd that only because of parliamentary control on Friday, on which no one is present anyway, we must make exceptions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Tsonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u12	Madam President, honourable Members! The Parliamentary Group of the National Assembly has played an active role throughout the whole time in both the Presidential Councils and in the debates on the search for a way of working of the National Assembly in the context of this pandemic crisis. I'm not going back. If you want us not to have this debate in this Chamber, so that we do not talk about the same things again, if you want to hold a sitting at which you, Madam President, read the transcripts from all the chairman's boards from the first to the last on this topic. What we accepted today, at the first council, we proposed it. The remote vote and the remote work we offered options there. I made a point today. We asked constitutionalists if remote voting was possible. There are various opinions, but there are constitutionalists who told us it was possible under certain circumstances. Today I spoke this thesis in one of the TV stations this morning. I received a text from one of the famous Bulgarian constitutionalists, I will not say his name from the National Assembly's stand, because I did not get his permission, which writes to me: "Congratulations on the position, Mr. Tsonev, that there is no constitutional obstacle to the remote voting of the MPs! "I do not claim that he is right, but nobody says that he is right that we cannot vote constitutionally. It simply had to be carefully discussed with consultations and to attempt to vote remotely and to work remotely. Since there was no consensus for this to happen, we will obviously work this way in the context of a pandemic crisis because we have no intention of putting the work of the most important body of the Bulgarian constitutional framework of Bulgarian democracy. Because it's not a personal question of whether we work, whether we get checked out, whether we're healthy, whether it's institutional. There is a constitutional provision what happens if the MP dies, but there is no hypothesis if he is sick and is in hospital for a long time. I ask you: if 121 is infected, then does the National Assembly's work stop forcibly? It stops, of course. Is it institutional? It's institutional, it's not personal. And now about the salaries and the other things Mr. Vigenin is talking about. You're a little hasty. Each parliamentary group has made its decision a few days ago. The fact that you are defending not to increase wages, let me tell the citizens... Mrs. Nino accused, said we had now thought of addressing the citizens. Well, some of us remember later, Mrs. Nino, so you remembered earlier. The thesis not to raise wages, to be frozen, is to keep the money in the budget of the National Assembly, because they will remain there. And at the end of the year from the National Assembly's money as surplus will remain in the budget of the state as a remainder. I hope you won't disprove this thesis. And our decision as a parliamentary group was this increase, and not only that, to donate it where it needs to be. In support of this, I would say that everyone has made some kind of donation campaign -- all the MPs, all the parties -- which, of course, society will appreciate properly. I will only talk about our party and our parliamentary group. Our parliamentary group is 26 people. We made a donation slightly more than the largest parliamentary group and twice the size of the second largest parliamentary group. We have a right to talk about a donation. This is the donation only in the official account that was opened. Apart from that, our parliamentary group and our party have made donations in the various hospitals, in the various regions where there is a need for them in the form of supplies, in the form of equipment and in the form of other necessary materials. We have not talked about this, and we would not allow ourselves to talk, because we believe that this is our duty and our empathy to the difficult situation that our entire people are in. But since you are opening the floor to wages, let us tell you: the largest donor in the country is a member of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... [[Voices: "Eee!" and lines from "BSP" for Bulgaria.]] So don't talk to us here, from this tribune, about salaries and other things. We have made the commitment and do it without making a fuss, because that is how we understand our empathy for people! [[Extreme lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u13	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u14	Mr. Tsonev, Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Tsonev, I'm addressing you two days ago, you made a statement in which you said that instead of solving things in one hour, we solved them for 13 hours of debate! My question is this: Mr. Tsonev, as we left today, are we going to sit again for 13 hours? And seeing how many we are, even though we comply with the Presidential requirements, we are just a breeding ground here! That's definite. We are currently being taken away by our parliamentary group and it turns out that we have not all had this flu. Do you know what that means? That tomorrow any of us could get sick again. That's what it means. My request to all the parliamentary groups is that we are in a state of emergency and as a former military I say it to you: short, clear, accurate. That's what meetings are supposed to be like. Let's not continue for 13 hours today, Mr. Tsonev. I would like you to answer my question: do you expect us to sit again for 13 hours today?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u15	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Here's a line for you, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u16	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Tsonev, I allow myself to make this line for you for two reasons the first one is purely mathematical. As one of the most experienced MPs, you should know that Parliament has a problem not if 121 MPs get sick, but if they get sick 120. For punctuality, I'm just pointing it out, we're a little bit inexperienced, but we still studied mathematics. The second thing. It is true that many colleagues, in general many Bulgarians, organizations, formations included who with what can be done in a donation campaign. However, some very irritantly reflect them in the media, while others remain anonymous. I will therefore take this opportunity to announce that we, as a parliamentary group, have made a decision in the possible way that we can. These people who come and turn to us, namely about 100 - 120 thousand people per day, per day, 3 - 3,5 million Bulgarians per month, to give them discounts within about 600 thousand. lv. a day, within about 18 million a month... [[Radio, lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u17	Mr. Mareshki, let's get back to your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u18	That's the line. Didn't he say the biggest donor? We will not tell if we are the biggest donors.. we will let the Bulgarian people appreciate this. In fact, all of you are very influenced by how the Bulgarian people react the fastest you can feel it through social networks. Get not into the offices, not in the official media, but in the social networks and you will see who they think is the biggest donor in Bulgaria at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u19	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Third line? I can't see. Mr. Tsonev won't make the back. Colleagues, any other speeches? Mrs. Ninova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u20	Madam President, honourable Members! We are deciding to change the way Parliament works. Mr. Tsonev has different opinions of various specialists, lawyers, including the Legal Directorate of the National Assembly, whether we can vote remotely. The only legitimate authority that can say this is the Constitutional Court. And if anyone wants an official, legitimate and final answer, then please refer an inquiry to the Constitutional Court. And stop exchanging lines and personal considerations about whether or not we can, as well as measuring legal diplomas and grounds for this dispute. If we're going to solve this, we have to solve it in the only legitimate way in the Constitutional Court. You are also asking about the salaries, especially since the morning after Mr. Borisov announced that he will order you to freeze our salaries. I am interested in this way of working of the Parliament, which you are taking today as a decision, because we will be opposed to, when will we gather to change the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and to freeze our salaries, Madam President? Since it is not on the agenda today, there is no prospect that we will soon have further meetings after we vote on the budget and the extension of the state of emergency, will everything still remain in words?! The way you approach the issue of the remuneration of the political elite today is wrong. You only place it within the framework of the disease, the danger and crisis of coronavirus and the consequences for the economy and the social life of Bulgaria. When this danger passes, what, will we again be entitled to that unfair, automatic, economically unjustified and socially absolutely incorrect automatic wage increase every three months, regardless of what product we have produced or not? This is the real populism you accused us of in 2017, 2018 and 2019! Colleagues, there was no pandemic back then, there was no need for this display of donation that you are demonstrating today. Donation is a personal act, it is done modestly and humbly, and do not measure from here, from the stands, millions of donations just because there is a disease! I remind you, 2017 and 2018 and 2019. Three in a row from this National Assembly, we from BSP for Bulgaria are submitting a legislative proposal! We don't just go out and say like Borisov: I'm going to order them to freeze their wages. lv.? And in a month's time, when the average falls and ours has to fall, will it still stay so high? And where's the justice in that? [[Replications from OP.]] 2017 we proposed a reduction and freezing of the parliamentary salaries, comparable to the end of the 43rd National Assembly, and through this National Assembly, during the past three years not to increase our salaries or leva. Do you know what our ears heard and experienced emotions and reason, including you?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u21	Exactly, why?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u22	Populism will not spell them out, because the definitions are too cynical, which you referred to us and to me personally, because I was very firm about this measure. Even with some contradictions in our group, we've defended it three years in a row! And it was all a show, it was populism, and so on, not to continue with the epithets you've been sending to us for three years. Why does no one in the state say that, apart from the MPs, nearly 600 people are in this regime?! That is why I am talking about political, administrative and any elite of Bulgaria! Because, honourable Bulgarians, these salaries are: the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, the Constitutional Court, the Financial Supervision Commission, the Commission for Protection of Competition, the President, the Prime Minister, the Ministers, I will not list them all. 600 people! The point is not that Bulgaria is currently experiencing a weight from the coronavirus and the crisis. It's not a temporary matter. It is a much bigger issue. It is principled, moral, political! This is the issue of the gap between the political elites not only in Bulgaria, but in Europe and in the world and our peoples! And that question will not go away with the passing of the crisis! And we're not gonna give up putting it up like we've been doing since 2017 to this day, whatever you call us! Because one of the reasons why Europe and the world came to this state is this gap between the political elites and the nations that we could not understand with our mind! Now we will realize it through the pain, through the tragedy, through the poverty of many people! Why did this have to happen? Why couldn't we understand it three years ago, four years ago, that this was a matter of justice and solidarity?! Not just in sickness, but at all for societies and their normal existence from now on. Yes, we are about to reduce, freeze, be solidarity not only in words! And we've been doing this for four years! You didn't hear us at least now listen to us, but without display, without populism, but with real action! That is why we do not accept that you are now making the most exotic proposals, and 2016 is that I will not mention you by name, since the beginning of the meeting, I have checked, you have voted against the demand for wages! Now you suddenly decide that this is very nice and very useful. What do you mean? Why? And what is populism, what we are doing consecutively for four years, or what you are now showing, as if hypocritically, compassion, suddenly you remembered to propose, headed by Chief and Master Boyko Borisov?!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u23	What are those words?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u24	He personally described our actions as populism. I call on you - let everyone make their proposals for our remuneration - we will submit our proposal in a firm and consistent manner from 2017. A reduction in wages, their freezing at the end of the 43rd National Assembly! If you want, support him, if you want to, no, but it's time for reason. I repeat, I'm sorry it happened through the tragedy and through the pain. We should have understood this a long time ago, because it is not a matter of an Adhok decision a principled, big, political, moral question of the political elite against its people! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u25	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. - What's the line? Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u26	Madam President, honourable Members! I have three specific questions for Mrs Cornelia Ninova. My first question to you is: Did you personally vote on the 13th Decision on the state of emergency in the country to show the Bulgarian people whether you personally voted? Second question: did you personally vote on the measures that have been imposed? Third question: Have you fulfilled your commitment to the State by returning the subsidy? Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u27	Did the biggest donor vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u28	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Mareshki, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u29	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Ninova, I would have treated you with great respect for what you said, which generally sounds good if it were true. First, the reward is very important to be related to the results of the work. I think no Bulgarian citizen will mind if we get $5,000. lv. However, if his incomes were normal, not what they are now, thanks to the governments that you had. Now you are talking: the last four years, what have you contributed to the poverty in Bulgaria? [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Secondly, let us not forget that outside of the ridiculous amounts that would be reduced by wages, Volya remained the only party in this parliament that voted against the much more hateful subsidies than raising wages by 500 BGN. Thanks to you, the other colleagues have also caved and voted at the moment, in this crisis, the only people who receive a subsidy because you are talking about salaries, but you do not want the subsidy. Don't you see on social media what's enough? It should get to your ears for the grants! And the millions of subsidies you receive on a monthly basis, how do we explain them at the moment to the starving and miserable Bulgarian citizens? Volya is the only party that so far resists the rights and wishes of Bulgarian citizens not to receive any subsidies from the parties, and if we ever make such decisions that are in favor of the Bulgarian people and society and the state as a whole, I am sure that the Bulgarian people are loyal enough and grateful and will even say: take double and triple salaries, only that you work for the benefit of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u30	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Mr. Nenkov, come in for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Mrs. Ninova, as I listen to you, I get the impression that you do not appreciate in any way those years in which you have proposed freezing or any other way of billing. This means that you have absolutely no self-respect for your work. The topic of wages cannot be in any way.. as many times as is debated in this Chamber, there is no way to bring any positive to anyone. On the contrary, she's always been negative. But this is precisely why I have appreciated our work in recent years, precisely thanks to this we have not supported your proposals for a reason, because Bulgaria has been financially and economically on the rise in recent years. And it is precisely thanks to this policy, which the GERB government has led with the prime minister, whom you so constantly want to mention, that Bulgaria is currently in a financially stable position and will be able to bear the costs, and will be able to bear the burden that is being opened by the crisis with the corona virus. So don't! And especially not to remind you that you did not support our proposals at the time when 2013, if memory serves, GERB also had such a proposal and you did not support it then. Mr. Mareshki also told you about the subsidies when we took into account that you wanted to receive the party subsidies. So don't talk about how concerned you are here now. As far as everyone is concerned about measuring who has made how many donations, I think it is absolutely unnecessary today in this debate to mention it. It's a matter of a personal act that everyone has to do, and you don't have to go out here and explain it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u32	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. For the coat, Mrs. Ninova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u33	This last one was harakiri minutes before we watched the budget update. According to GERB the colleague from GERB, the state was in such good financial condition thanks to the smart management of Boyko Borisov,...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u34	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u35	...that in a moment you will vote on a ten billion loan to cover your budget deficit. To cover that difference from a billion and a half to a deficit minus three and a half, which you did in just one week. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] This is the result of smart economic governance, which has led to such financial stability, that we will shortly discuss a loan of ten billion. As far as subsidies are concerned. Dear colleagues, we know very well your momentum to remove subsidies and open the financing of business to the Bulgarian parties, which you did and for which you received a strong slap from Europe. The subsidies have returned not by our will, not by your will, because Europe has waved its finger at you and said: the way you act for subsidies, you let the dark business make policy, you let the dark business decide the state decisions. Correct your decision at once, honourable rulers! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] That's what Europe told you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u36	Did you bring them back?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u37	As for the return, read these laws that you are voting on, honourable fellow MPs. They said that the Ministry of Finance kept them in office and the Ministry of Finance did so, and so far it will continue to do so in respect of both BSP and other parties that owe money. [[Noise and lines from GERB and partial applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Colleagues, let's get back to the debate on the decision of the National Assembly's work supplement. That's the subject I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u39	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u40	In the manner of conduct please, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u41	Madam President, I am extremely disappointed with the way in which you are leading the sitting and allow this tribune to tell honest lies - such as that GERB has brought the situation to 10 billion. a loan. Yeah, maybe it's true "GERB" brought the coronavirus, GERB released the state of emergency to ruin the economy! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Is that the truth spoken by this tribune?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u42	To me, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u43	Madam President, as of 31 March this is two weeks after the state of emergency, the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria has an excess of 1 billion. And 250 million. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] But thanks to the efforts of GERB, which brought the coronavirus to Bulgaria, only in Bulgaria now will we have to close the budget with a deficit for 2020 and draw a loan. But you, Madam President, have not stopped these lies from this tribune, which I am extremely disappointed in you for! [[Reply and shouts: "Eee!" by "BSP for Bulgaria".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u44	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Mr. Zablyanov, please come in the manner of conduct. Let's hear it, Mr. Zablyanov, and you're disappointed.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u45	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Karayancheva, I would like to congratulate you for not interrupting the speakers, as Mrs. Stoyanova is not aware that the President of the National Assembly cannot judge the truthfulness in the words of the speakers and from this point of view to take the matter away from them. So, Mrs. Stoyanova, you are from a parliamentary group, consult with the Chairman and do not interrupt the discussion with inappropriate proposals for a procedure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u46	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Mr. Bikov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u47	Madam President, honourable Members! I'll try to get the debate back around the point. Here we go again in a disconcerted atmosphere. From point one, we can say all the points, then we can go back to the points one by one, and then no one will ever know why we're here. And I see a great desire on your part to see us as often as possible, this desire is absolutely shared by our parliamentary group as well. But the point we are discussing right now is to solve this issue with our functioning as a parliament. So far, it's been established that Parliament is not disbanded. The fact that I was standing on this stand and just now and you were talking from it means that everything we talked about last Friday, and rather what you were talking about, was a fantasy. As you can see, Parliament has gathered, we are here. Now, whether or not we're going to make it with these exact measures to protect ourselves from any contamination, I personally believe it's God's work. But let's end this point a little bit faster. It affects only us, it does not affect such a large circle of people in our society that we give it half our time and then have no power to discuss far more important next points that affect far more people than we do and our administration in parliament. I think it's a good idea to accept our offer. I don't think it will destroy democracy and freedom. As I can see, we have enough defenders both in your face and in the face of President Radev, although sometimes he does not like to be asked improvised questions, but still always points out his attachment to freedom of speech, which I believe exists today from this tribune. So let's leave the problems to the budget, to the salaries. By the way, you have an absolute opportunity with 48 MPs to submit a proposal for a freeze, to call a parliament meeting, to gather here, so I don't know why these cries are against us. We'll bring them in. The point is that it's good to thaw them later so they can fall. Because, colleagues, in two or three months the average salary will be lower than currently, so freezing is not the best scenario. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u48	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Statements? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Colleagues, please take your seats in plenary. Now I'm going to read you the proposal. Project! DECISION supplementing the decision on the work of the National Assembly during the implementation of the emergency situation, announced by a decision of the National Assembly (GD, SG No. 22 from 2020) New, in D.B., No. 26 from 2020 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to a decision of the National Assembly declaring a state of emergency of 13 March 2010. (DV, No. 22 from 2020) and in view of the recommendations of the National Operational Headquarters established by Order No P-37 of 26 February 2020 of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED In the decision on the work of the National Assembly during the state of emergency, announced by decision of the National Assembly (SG. 22 from 2020), reg., in D.C., No. 26 of 2020, as amended. No. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 6. During the emergency situation, the following special rules shall apply in the work of the National Assembly: 6.1. the President of the National Assembly shall distribute the draft laws submitted only to a committee responsible and the draft acts adopted in one vote to a committee only; 6.2. Art. 45, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly shall not apply; I want to draw attention to that t. 6.2. ............................................... 45, para. 2, this is the point that determines the holiday of the Members of the National Assembly, in fact, it does not apply in this state of emergency. supposed to be of equal value to or greater than or equal to or equal to or equal to or greater than the sum of the following: the establishment of a quorum before the opening of the plenary shall be carried out through the computerised voting system, with the registration of the Members of the National Assembly starting 1 hour before the opening of the meeting; 6.4. In the deliberations on a agenda item in the Chamber shall be attended by the Members of the Committee responsible and other Members of Parliament, with the recommendation of not more than 1/4 of all Members of the National Assembly at the same time; 6.5. Following the closure of the deliberations on the agenda items of the meeting, the President shall set the starting time for the vote on the first-vote drafts and drafts of acts adopted in a single vote which may not be earlier than 30 minutes after the end of the last debates. The vote shall be carried out by means of the computerised voting system on a timetable set by the Chair and the Members of the National Assembly shall be duly divided into two groups which shall vote consecutively in the Chamber. Upon completion of the vote, the results shall be established and summarised by the Secretaries of the National Assembly and transmitted to the President, who shall announce them during the same meeting; 6.6. The time limit for written proposals by Members of the National Assembly for bills adopted in the first vote shall be 24 hours; 6.7. When considering bills of a second vote, the vote shall take place after the submission of the reports of the leading committees and the debates on them. The President shall set the starting time for the vote on the drafts discussed, which may not be earlier than 30 minutes after the final debate has been concluded. The vote shall be carried out by means of the computerised voting system on a timetable set by the Chair and the Members of the National Assembly shall be duly divided into two groups which shall vote consecutively in the Chamber. The vote of each group shall be chapter by chapter, section by section or text until the contents of the respective second vote report of the proposals made during the deliberations are exhausted. After the vote is closed, the results shall be established and summarised by the Secretaries of the National Assembly and transmitted to the President, who shall announce them at the same time. Please, voting mode. They voted 173 MPs: for 119, against 54, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, hold on. Colleagues, I will also vote on the program for Monday so that the MPs can be informed of what we will see on Monday. Negative vote please, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I voted against this draft decision because today it is clear why the MPs from GERB, the ruling majority, the DPS, the Volya want this Parliament not to work. Madam President, you are concerned about the health of the Members of the National Assembly - 175 people now in this Chamber, or before, when we spoke at the Conference of Presidents, here they are, 43 MPs from BSP...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u50	That's right, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u51	...who vote as they think, as we agreed, no more than 55% to be present. Is this how the Bulgarian Parliament will work? Why are we making these circuses? Why are you making these circuses? You were all standing somewhere in the room, hidden together, and now you've come to vote to infect the other 100 people standing through a chair.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u52	Mr. Svilensky...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u53	Who are you guys doing this circus for?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u54	...the negative vote, say?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u55	The negative vote, yes, it is, Madam President, because you have polished the truth that you want the National Assembly to no longer meet, to have a budget of 10 billion, to stop the subsidies of the parties, to put the media up on the terrace, to leave three journalists here and Borisov to rule himself - as he wishes, without MPs, without media, without citizens knowing what it is about! That's what you want! [[Noise and lines.]] Here are the 175 MPs in this House, provided that three MPs are infected or viral. God forbid everyone gets better, God forbid there will be any more infected colleagues, but if you're sincere, be honest with me to the end. Hypocrisy will not get you out of this crisis, believe me! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u56	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Colleagues, this is what we really agreed at the meeting. Please, colleagues, through one in the hall! Sit down, one at a time! [[Noise and lines.]] Dear Members of Parliament, I propose that a decision be adopted on the basis of art. 48, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly as follows: The National Assembly shall hold an extraordinary plenary session on 6 April, Monday, at 9.00 on the following agenda: 1. Draft decision to suspend the recalculation of the basic monthly remuneration of the Members of the National Assembly. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020. 3. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020 Please, voting mode. Vote 148 MPs: 108, against 5, abstention 35. The motion is accepted. Moving on to item two on the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO APPROVE THE EXTENDED EXEMPTION. Colleagues, we're starting to work on the new rules. Please leave the House of Members. We have a decision already voted on: the vote will begin at least half an hour after the debate on the last point is over. So, please, the MPs! The MPs from BSP, DPS, Volya and the independents will be the first to vote. The second group will be GERB and the United Patriarchs. So there will be plenty of time for you to come to the gym, colleagues. Please remain in this Chamber now only those engaged in the debate, and we will work on the new rules that we have just decided. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u57	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We come to point two, which is a proposal of the Council of Ministers, that the emergency situation be increased to May 13th. My procedure on this point is not to consider it today. Point two to be removed from the National Assembly's agenda, and my arguments for this are as follows. On 13 March, we voted to introduce a state of emergency and, at the request of the BSP parliamentary group, a clear deadline was introduced from 13 March to 13 April. The idea of this deadline was not self-sustaining, but it was to gather together at the end of the expiry of the state of emergency, in order to assess together what should be done from now on. It's April 3rd. There are 10 days left until the emergency is over, and it seems to us that the examination of its extension is premature. We propose that this proposal of the Council of Ministers be reviewed next week. Please note that every day besides the statistics on infected people, hopefully everyone gets better, who are killed by this disease, besides this statistic, there are statistics on unemployed people who are increasing by every day of closed businesses, on closed small shops and small services sites, there are broken fates every single day, there is psychological pressure on people who are imprisoned in their houses, including children who do not attend nurseries and kindergartens. Therefore, every day of an extension of the emergency situation must be very thoughtful and make sure that there is no other way. So we ask you to cancel this point today, not create additional tension, bring it to 10th when there will be little time left, and we will be able to look more carefully at the situation, which, in everyone's opinion, is extremely dynamic. That's why we're offering t. 2 - Draft decision on the extension of the declared state of emergency not to be considered today. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u58	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. I'll put it to the vote. Previously on Back Offer. Mrs. Stoyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u59	Madam President, colleagues! I'm making a reverse offer. The item should remain on the agenda, arguing the opposite of what colleague Zarkov said. We expect that in 10 days we'll have a fall, right, Mr. Zarkov? You have medical powers to judge him?! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Moreover, we need to do it today and now, in order for business and people to have clarity what will happen next month, to plan their work, to plan their existence. The sooner we tell people today how we think things are gonna turn out, the better it is for everyone. So I call on you to vote and look at the point today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. I put to the vote Mr. Zarkov's proposal to postpone the consideration of item two of today's agenda. [[Noise and lines.]] Vote 110 MPs: 37 against 70, abstention 3. The offer is not accepted. Please, colleagues, let's follow the new rules! Please leave the room! The Quaestors, please intervene. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u61	Thank you. Madam President, you have just adopted some rules that you do not immediately follow. I'm asking for a re-voting procedure. However, it is necessary for this emergency to take an informed decision. There is no information from the Council of Ministers so far, no complete information at all! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u62	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Please, re-vote mode. Vote 96 MPs: 37 against 55, abstention 4. The offer is not accepted. Moving on to point two. Mr. Ananiev, please give us the proposal of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! More than 853 200 cases and 41 887 deaths with COVID-19 have been reported in the world since the beginning of 2020 to 1 April this year. The number of cases of COVID-19 in the countries of the European Union, the European Economic Area and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland in recent days has increased sharply and exceeded almost fivefold the level of epidemic spread in China and the three-fold diseased in the United States. This defines the European continent as the most affected by the new coronavirus. Based on the data published by the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control and the risk assessment carried out by the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, the risk assessment of the widespread spread of COVID-19 for the last week is defined as moderate for the community and very high for the risk groups of people over 60 years of age and people with chronic diseases. In the coming weeks, the risk would remain moderate only if strict and effective anti-epidemic measures were applied in individual EU Member States as a whole. The expert conclusion shows that, over the next few weeks, the health systems of the Member States will reach the maximum load of their available capacity. Our country is struggling with all possible efforts to limit the spread of COVID-19 infection, with the dimensions of the crisis still not being evaluated and predicted. Pressure on the health system as a negative fiscal impact can only be reduced by extending the time limits and measures for social isolation and combating the pandemic in order to effectively control it. These actions are also confirmed by the data and recommendations of the National Operational Headquarters established by Order No 37 of 26 February 2020 of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. The COVID-19 epidemic represents a serious public health emergency at national and global level, a threat to our national security and this justifies the introduction of measures of extremely high public importance putting the country in emergency. In view of the above and on the basis of art. 84, p. 12 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I propose to the National Assembly to adopt proposals Draft decision on the extension of the declared state of emergency and the draft decision itself contains two points: "1." Asks the National Assembly to extend the period of the emergency situation announced by the National Assembly Decision of 13 March 2020 on the territory of the whole country until 13 May 2020. 2. He proposed to the National Assembly that the Council of Ministers should take all necessary measures to control the emergency situation." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u64	Thank you, dear Minister. My fellow Members, I am opening the debates. You have the floor for speeches. Here you go, Mr. Siddy.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen of ministers, honourable colleagues! We support the government's efforts to deal with this emergency crisis, which is not only Bulgarian, it is also global. We are pleased that Bulgaria has been set as an example as one of the few countries that have imposed timely severe restrictions and measures that it suffers from, unfortunately, the whole society. However, so far we have been able to really hold back the difficult situation that it has been, we see, in other European countries as well. Once again, we must state our support with regard to the fact that the measures were timely and serious. However, what is now forcing us to go out and say our opinion is that, in fact, the government's motives for today's decision are one side where, unfortunately, there is no clear analysis that we expect to see what the state is doing in an ever-growing economy, in an escalating unemployment, in a severe social crisis that is being set out in our society. We are not giving a clear answer to people outside this House why we need to extend the emergency situation until 13 May. Today is April 3rd "There is plenty of time for us to try to find the right solutions so that we can calm society down, find a strategy to protect vulnerable groups that all medical professionals say are elderly people, people with severe side diseases. And try slowly and slowly to bring back those who are less vulnerable groups to economic life. That is why from "United Patriarchs" we want to make and propose an editorial correction of the decision. 1 to be recorded: instead of the words "May 13," the words "April 30." We assume that by the end of this month, what we are proposing, if the state of emergency applies, we will be able to gather, of course, once again, if necessary, and if necessary, extend this situation. We hope that, within one month, there will be enough good results and, accordingly, we will be able to cancel the emergency situation at the end of this month in order to calm society and start recovering economically from the severe crisis that has been so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u66	Thank you, dear Mr. Siddy. Are there any lines? Mrs. Nino, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u67	Mr. Chairman, ministers and colleagues! We have also supported the decision to introduce a state of emergency, even if we are at the heart of the decision to pursue it for a period of one month. Initially, what the Council of Ministers requested was timeless. We supported it with a complete understanding of the seriousness of the situation and of the need for action to control the crisis from the disease. Mrs. Karayancheva, I'm addressing you! When we discussed this issue at the Presidential Council and reached this agreement in the name of our common goal, we agreed before extending the deadline for the Council of Ministers and the Prime Minister to come here, to do an analysis before the National Assembly and to inform us: what result have the measures given; where are there weaknesses; what should be corrected; what is the need to extend the time of emergency? In this conversation, the Prime Minister personally committed himself to this being the case. Alas, another unfulfilled promise! However, we continue to believe that, in order to decide on an extension of the deadline, we must not only have information that is given by the headquarters, the two headquarters, not only the statistics on the infected, we must have a thorough economic, social, financial analysis of what is the result so far, what can expect us in the coming weeks, how much it is necessary to extend the time limit. Obviously there will be no such analysis, because there is no such analysis in the reasons for the proposal of the decision at all, there is no such analysis at all. There's a formal attitude to the matter. You say that the European continent has become the center of the disease, of the pandemic. That's right! But, fellow Members, see what is happening in the countries in the most difficult situation: Italy has extended the emergency situation to April 12, France You want an extension from here to the end of the emergency situation within 45 days from today. This is not acceptable to us, all the more so that it really remains a third of the term until the end of this one-month period, during which time we can wait and literally in the last days before it runs out, get back together and decide. You don't want to accept this, you don't give analysis, arguments and motives, you just want a formal increase another month after 13 April. We will not support this decision, not only for the reasons I have pointed out, that you are not giving objective information, but because of the observations on what is happening to the economy, with the social life of people, with unemployment, with the fall of incomes, with the tensions in society. We will not support the proposal to increase by one month and we propose to correct your proposed decision by extending the deadline until the end of April, that is, an editorial proposal: until 30 April.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u68	So you support what Mr. Siddy just did?!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u69	No, we don't. We're offering our own solution.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u70	And it's also until April 30th.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u71	I submit it as a proposal on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u72	I get it, Mrs. Ninova. Replices, coworkers? Here you go, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u73	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable ministers! I find it very strange how a gross mistake can be highlighted by the National Assembly's stand as some kind of great victory. Well, it's because of what you're saying, your pressure to vote for a month, we're dealing with this subject again. The right decision was to be timeless for as long as necessary. He's got three colleagues today, but what if it was 120? How would you get together to vote and change the budget, and all the other decisions we need to make that should be in favor of the Bulgarian people? [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I would just like to remind you, dear Mrs. Ninova, that you, after meeting with a foreign ambassador, have changed your mind, not just your own, but the entire group, and in fact supported the deal on the purchase of airplanes. We proved to be the only ones who continue to claim how much this money is needed now for Bulgaria, the Bulgarian economy and the Bulgarian people. [[Strong noise from BSP for Bulgaria. A line from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] So think about it when you talk and if you think about it a little bit more, we are not going to be doing this subject again now to raise by 15 days, by 30 days. Our parliamentary group's proposal is to become as timeless as necessary. Maybe on April 20th, God willing, it'll all be over and we'll move on. When then, because tomorrow we may not be able to get together and make a new decision. Thank you. [[Relation of lines between MPs Georgi Svilenski and Veselin Mareshki.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u74	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova. [[Supreme between MPs Veselin Mareshki and Georgi Svilenski.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u75	Please, guys! [[Loud noise. Replies between the MPs Stoyan Mirchev and Veselin Mareshki.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u76	Mr. Mareshki, please! [[Engine lines from the National Representative Veselin Mareshki to the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev. Quaestors' intervention.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u77	Yee! Well, if you don't take him out... [[Loud noise, lines.]] Mr. Hristov, I ask for the application of the Rules of Parliament and punishment of Mr. Mareshki for the words he spoke in respect of a member of the BSP.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u78	Did you hear what he said?!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u79	Just now, Mr. Mareshki... I will not repeat the word from the stands, but I ask that he be punished by the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u80	I can't tell right now, and I didn't hear. The hole, Mrs. Ninova, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u81	Punish him!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u82	I am pleased for the support of a colleague from GERB. [[Replies from "BSP for Bulgaria".Strength noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u83	I didn't hear exactly what happened because I was just talking to Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u84	He dares to call himself a member of the National Assembly!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u85	Mr. Hristov, will you ever apply the Rules of Procedure in this Parliament?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u86	I always do, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u87	Never!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u88	That sometimes one of you doesn't like the way I work...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u89	I believe that the word "freak" and the insults that have been made are inadmissible for a parliament and there are rules for punishment. [[Loud noise. Replies from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It is your judgment, but it is also the judgment of the Bulgarian citizens... what happens here and what responsibility is it? With regard to the dot. It is a lie that we voted to buy the planes, and I hope it is clearly heard from everyone and to stop these manipulations of public opinion. As far as the deadline for the emergency is concerned. Not only Mr. Mareshki's proposal, the more severe is that the proposal of the Council of Ministers was for an unlimited state of emergency without any account of art. 57 of the Constitution, which guarantees fundamental rights of Bulgarian citizens even in a state of emergency. I mean, the government wanted an unlimited dictatorship. And I am proud that the BSP was able to impose, to suggest, to persuade colleagues to be involved for a month, and to preserve and defend the constitutional rights of Bulgarian citizens. The other meaning of the temporary state of emergency, colleagues, was after a certain period of time here to analyze the results, the needs, new needs, if there is; to come the Council of Ministers to account for what they have done, how much money they have spent, what they need. This is the other meaning of the temporary state of emergency. If you understand parliamentary governance, the parliamentary republic as an unlimited transfer of all rights to the executive authority, whoever it is, without respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, we have radically different ideas with you about politics, about parliamentaryism, about constitutionalism, about the rule of law, about whatever you think. That is why it has been our insistence on a quest with respect for constitutional rights, and now again we say that it must be a quest for a shorter term, because the economy is also gasping, and people are getting weak, and most of all, because we do not have a single argument why it should be another 45 days from today.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u90	Thank you. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Karadayi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Members of the House, Dear Ministers! We from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support the proposal made by the Council of Ministers with one main argument. We're all watching in the world how the Coronavirus pandemic develops. The averages at the present time, I would just like to mention what they look like in the world and what they are in Bulgaria. Globally, found infected at 1 million is 133 at the present time, and those who died from COVID-19 are 7 per 1 million. What is the picture in Bulgaria: 69 per 1 million were found infected and two per 1 million were the deceased from COVID-19 in Bulgaria, that is to say almost twice less were found infected in Bulgaria at the moment and three and a half fewer died from COVID-19 in Bulgaria, which means that the measures taken are working. These are comparable indicators with global averages. As for general information and the necessary measures to be taken during this period, there may be grounds for criticism. We will therefore support the extension of the deadline for the emergency situation, as proposed by the Council of Ministers. The picture gives results three-and-a-half of those who died from the global average, twice less are found infected, but for the financial, economic and social measures, what to be and how to be, there is already a need for analysis, data from the executive, because the main responsibility in this emergency is for the executive so that the National Assembly can contribute to the fight against this pandemic, which is also in the world. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u92	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. Are there lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Iankov, Mr. Gokov, Mr. Zablyanov. Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u93	Dear Mr. President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The differences are obvious. If, in one case, the state functions in the normal way, in the current system, there are no advantages in favour of society. The state of emergency that has been introduced, only the powers of the government are exceptional, but not the effectiveness of the work to respond to the resulting crisis. The key word is "Credit" loans of the companies that will receive credit from the banks, which will be financed by a credit that will withdraw the state in the face of the government of GERB and which will pay us, our children, that and further. What direct benefit will each one receive who will subsequently pay the price of something that has not been received? No hint of creating and financing a national strategy for a new model of the national economy. Even for the short period of twenty days there are clear conclusions. We need national production of goods for widespread consumption. It is clear that you do not know, and you have no intention of creating conditions for the development of the home business. This crisis has not led you to make adequate lessons. Getting ten workshops to sew protective masks instead of the usual items is not an anti-crisis measure to stabilize the economy, but a measure to combat the epidemic. To continue pouring huge resources into projects whose profitability will be in five or ten years is also irresponsible to today and tomorrow. To the Minister of Finance, I want to say no! The highway thing is no longer a priority, the demographic collapse is a priority. The continuation of the state of emergency gives you the motive to leave to the second plan countless problems that you have created for Bulgaria and to explain twice a day how you are fighting the virus. I therefore call on you: immediately stop this insanity by which you imitate governance in the fight against the epidemic! Close this headquarters, called NIGHT, and put into action the National Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria to prepare for influenza pandemic! Organize the work of the National Pandemic Committee, headed by Deputy Prime Minister and with a specific composition. The government and parliament should begin to function fully with increased activity in accordance with the new realities in Europe and in the world so that we can do what people have trusted us to do! Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u94	Any lines to Mr. Iankov? Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Coronavirus is the new problem in the world. It spread like an epidemic, it became a pandemic, put to the test the health, social and all other systems of most countries. Despite the global nature of the threat and fairy tales of European solidarity, responses, safeguard mechanisms and decisions are taken by individual countries, by their governments and national parliaments. They are responsible for the consequences of these decisions, of the resources available to the State, but mostly of the capacity to make the right and responsible decisions will depend on how each country will deal with the health problems and with the consequences of the isolation measures after the end of this serious threat. With the idea that Bulgaria is facing a crisis and the situation with the threat of the coronavirus requires reason and responsibility that the most important is the health of every Bulgarian citizen, from BSP we supported the introduction of the emergency situation on 13 March 2020, with the agreement that we will support all actions and measures that ensure limiting the spread of the disease, guaranteeing the health of the people and preventing the economic consequences and to enable the government to make adequate decisions to help Bulgarians in their daily lives and give them motives to overcome their fears. The extraordinary situation put the government to the test to what extent crisis situations can be dealt with without external support and interference. Early introduction of these restrictive, restrictive measures for social distance were accepted by people as correct but temporary, and became capital for Borisov. I'm pretty sure his ratings are up. But the people's understanding and expectation are really about short-term temporary measures, not more than a month, because the biggest optimists are clear that the other is murder for the economy, for the people, for the state! The National Assembly and we, as opposition in it, have given a huge credit of confidence in the introduction of the state of emergency because of the seriousness of the situation itself and because of the need to unite the efforts of the institutions and society. But this is about to turn out to be a mistake because the government did not accept this trust as a means of solving problems, but as a way of introducing an absolutely uncontrolled exercise of power. And power began to use it as a distraction from being unable to solve the problems that the epidemic brought us. With restrictive measures that pass normal limits, citizens' fundamental freedoms and rights have reached out, and more importantly, these measures, rather than comforting people, strengthen their fears that we are not going in the right direction. With this chaotic way of doing things with the carelessness and with its strong desire for absolute financial stability at the expense of everyone and everything, the sole authority in the face of Borisov is about to kill our economy and our social system, and hence the financial system, and for the health care system, not to mention, it has long been killed. Not because we don't have doctors, on the contrary, we have wonderful specialists who haven't run out yet, but healthcare is managed only by the thought of money from people possessed by neoliberalism and the idea of the free market. The government and the majority at the beginning hinted that they would look at all good ideas, whether they come from the majority or from the opposition, but very soon, even after the adoption of the Law on Measures and Actions during the state of emergency, showed extreme aggression towards the opposition's proposals, which subsequently, albeit a small part of them, entered the Law. This created no unnecessary political and social tensions for anyone. The decisions and restrictive measures taken so far are extremely restrictive, are implemented by orders of the Minister of Health without consensus on their effectiveness, without wide discussion in the medical circles and are controlled by the Minister of Interior, including with huge sanctions and fines disproportionate to the incomes of the Bulgarians. Decisions were taken that impose restrictions on the Bulgarians and at the same time let them survive alone without the help of the state. This same country, which, through disproportionate and extreme restrictive measures, left them not working at home without the opportunity to earn their own living. I'm not saying emergency measures aren't necessary, but they have to be adequate in order not to get the benefit because of the flea we burned the quilt. The efforts and concerns of the majority have only come to the introduction of controversial measures that directly and indirectly affect freedom of speech, involving the army in non-military tasks, loading it with police functions. In order to protect people in a state of emergency, each country is entitled to take civil rights, such as the right to move or collect with other people, but there must be a guarantee that rights will not be restricted beyond what is necessary to achieve this objective, and it is the control of the epidemic and the guarantee of human health. In this regard, it is not clear how it helps to curb the infection and why does it need the opportunity given to the authorities to uncontrollably track every Bulgarian citizen through his mobile phone and the cells we use and without a judicial decision?! It is also difficult to find an explanation for the collection of personal data through the declarations of passage through the checkpoints built at the entrances and exits of the settlements. The other measures designed to overcome the economic and social consequences, I would say, are not at all! What has led to the emergency situation because of the coronavirus and the first restrictive, extremely restrictive measures to combat its spread by 1 April 2020 in less than a month? People can't move freely. This is about free movement, not walking and fun, but getting to the workplace. Chaos in the provision of social services. More than 31,600 registered as unemployed from 13 March to 1 April 2020. The registered persons were 4777 for 1 April 2020. Perhaps the number of unemployed is higher, because only people who are entitled to compensation are in a hurry to register at the employment desks, while others are waiting for better times. And the self-employed who will go bankrupt!? The total number of hospitals issued since the start of the emergency situation is over 176 thousand and 5200 are directly related to quarantine. The number of people on welfare is increasing. At the same time, in the support measure 60/40 the number of applications submitted so far is only 59 and according to employers and representatives of the small business measure works only for larger companies and is not applicable to small and micro enterprises, such as 90 percent of the companies in Bulgaria. And we arrive at 26 March 2020, when after 30 years of free parliamentary life in Bulgaria, the majority of the National Assembly. And this is during a state of emergency, and this is despite the belief of the majority of Bulgarians that it is a murder of democracy, of parliamentaryism and of all Bulgarian hopes for fair acceptance of the consequences of the crisis by everyone. [[Noise, lines and laughter from GERB.]] This is the abolition of the parliamentary republic and prelude to the establishment of a prime minister's republic. The tales that the Assembly will meet and meet only when legislation on emergency measures needs to be voted on are empty talk. And in the emergency situation, it is extremely important to exercise parliamentary control over the executive over how it applies the emergency measures, how it respects people's rights, how it spends the budget money. With the dissolution of the National Assembly Borisov secured the opportunity to rule uncontrollably by decrees, decrees, media appearances and charisma. [[GERB's lines and laughter.]] Uncontrolled power is a fact and no one will doubt that now all abuses of GERB from the past 10 years will be swept away. And now we're asked to continue all this for another month. At the same time, the country is full of people who are not only afraid of the coronavirus, but also of unemployment and hunger. And the state of emergency and the adopted Law on Measures during this state of emergency only strengthen concerns about a total financial, economic and social crisis after the virus crisis. The National Assembly, instead of meeting, debating, adopting and introducing measures to alleviate the consequences, to help businesses out of the complex situation, to help Bulgarians survive in this crisis, has become self-deprecating because of their own safety. Will history not remember us as irresponsible and cowardly? [[Laughter at GERB.]] And there are no answers to people's fears. And now we're being asked to continue all this for another month!? The introduction of the state of emergency was imperative, it was a reasonable and responsible decision, but from now on, chaos has occurred because of unreasonable decisions, unreasonable and disproportionate measures and actions by the government. BSP can't be a part of this. BSP deals with all seriousness with the problems and consequences of this crisis and although it is in opposition, the responsible left-wing party prepared and proposed policies and measures to overcome the financial, economic and social consequences of the coronavirus pandemic. However, your arrogance as a majority did not allow you to even pay attention to them! We will continue to inform the Bulgarians about our alternative proposals and insist on them. BSP remains waiting for constructive solutions with our participation. We will continue to show our alternative line of management model in the country. Taking into account the public's messages, we will continue to be the only opposition force in this Forty-fourth National Assembly that represents an alternative. I will vote against. I also call on you to vote against [[strong noise, laughter, applause and shouting from GERB]] extending the state of emergency - not because I want it, but because people outside expect responsible solutions from you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u96	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u97	Please extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u98	All right, extend the time of all parliamentary groups. Replices to Mrs. Stoyanova, Mr. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Gokov, I have listened to you for 10 minutes to read your written text quickly, to repeat several phrases from your leader's statements in the previous days and thus to write down your red dots in front of it. [[Journals in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u100	And where is your leader?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u101	But after all 10 minutes, Mr. Gokov, I didn't really understand what you wanted!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u102	Where's your leader?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u103	You want us to stop the state of emergency. You want us to open up restaurants, shops, cafes and let people eat and drink so that this business can be restored?! Maybe other things I can't understand! It's best in the back of your head to tell me we want: one, two, three! Because I can't understand it. But after that, there will probably be no one to eat or drink or cook for him at all!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. The line, Mr. Tanev. Are you emotional, too, or...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u105	I'll do my best not to. Dear Mr. President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, everything you and those who spoke before you sounds very nice to people's ears, to those who stand by and say to each other here is very bad, what we do is very bad. Mrs. Stoyanova asked very good questions. I've got a few more to go with them. When will the pandemic end? How will it affect Europe's economy, how will it affect Bulgaria's economy, the world? To what extent are we prepared for what follows I am talking about the world, not just about Bulgaria? How do you feel and how do you define your speech? In what Mrs. Stoyanova said, is absolutely right "Do you call on people to stop following the measures? Are you ready to bear the responsibility for what you say next? In what way you will go out in front of people and say: we came a month ago, we said that what the government does is not right, that people have to go out, the business has to go on, but, you see, now the x number of people, don't give a damn, have died or are infected and our economy will not recover in three months, but in three years. Will you take this responsibility, or will you again be one of those who spoke and just then sat down and recorded time in the speech? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u106	Thank you, too. Third line you have the floor, Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u107	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Gokov! Answer simply to Bulgarian citizens: Are you against anti-epidemic measures? And if you are against the implementation of these anti-epidemic measures, make an estimate of what the results of this will be. But come out and say it clearly from the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u108	Thank you. Mr. Gokov, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u109	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable Members of the House! So by the number of replicators, I think I've hit your pain exactly how you get inflamed by some things that you're afraid someone will tell you in your eyes. I, Mrs. Stoyanova, couldn't understand what you meant! [[Laughter, noise and lines from GERB.]] Any of what I said or read, no matter what was said or read, what did you not understand and what was not true? Because I didn't hear you say anything, disprove what I said. You just decided to make some other attacks that didn't give in to you, of course. [[Relations of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova.]] And now you're yelling at me from there! You should have said that when you were here in the stands! I claim that from the first to the last thing I said from this tribune, I stand behind it and I can confirm it. Now some questions you asked me there that I don't think about... Like when will the epidemic end? Well, you know very well that the epidemic will end when no more people are infected. [[Loud noise and laughter from GERB.]] But you, if you wanted a scientific explanation of this, would have gone to the doctors.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u110	We turned around and answered.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u111	Well, you didn't turn around, Mr. Bikov, you didn't turn around, because on one day of the morning you announce: you have to wear masks, after lunch you announce: you must not wear masks. Come on, tell me, when you are very adequate and you consult everyone, how does all this work help the epidemic measures that you claim to have taken, the collected declarations at the city checkpoint? How, for example, do they help? You can stop them another way. The declarations themselves, what do they help? Has anyone made a reference to these declarations? So you, of your arrogance and the thought of being infallible, don't hear what you're saying. You could have used a completely different approach to adopting the Emergency Measures Act, to listen to what we're saying to you on the left side, to hear them, not to introduce them halfway. And now I answer you because you ask me: Are you against epidemic measures? No, I didn't! However, they, your epidemic measures, are in all doubt. You do understand that collecting declarations and tracking phones are not anti-epidemic measures? They didn't, did they?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u112	Restrictive measures.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u113	Restrictive measures are one thing, and anti-epidemic measures are another. There's no need to argue. And you're asking me what I'm for? I told you what I was about, and they told you that, and those people who talked before me. We are to come here someone from the Headquarters, or best the Prime Minister, to say what is the result of the measures that have been put in place so far...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u114	Thank you, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u115	...and we have 10 more days to decide whether to extend the state of emergency and how long to extend it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u116	We'll continue with the next speech. Personal explanation Mrs. Karayancheva. [[Replications of the MPs Tsveta Karayancheva and Georgi Gokov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u117	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers! As I have been mentioned, I would like to make it clear that the proposal I made was supported by chairmen of parliamentary groups, was supported by the plenary and it was not for stopping the work of the National Assembly, but for its work in emergency mode. That is precisely why we have adopted a new decision today. There is no way the National Assembly can stop working. On several occasions, colleagues, I told you: read the Constitution, it is clearly written in art. 78: Art. 78. The National Assembly shall be convened at a meeting of the President of the National Assembly: 1. on his initiative; 2. at the request of one fifth of the Members of the National Assembly; 3. at the request of the President; 4. at the request of the Council of Ministers. You're 79 MPs. If you have bills relating to the state of emergency, do this initiative and I will convene the National Assembly again under the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u118	Thank you, dear Mrs. Karayancheva. We'll continue with Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u119	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! Colleagues, you offended me when we talked about the lies falling out of the stands, but I'm forced to bring it up again. Because I cannot agree that Mr. Gokov spoke within about 13 minutes in a disbanded parliament. You understand that if parliament were disbanded, Mr. Gokov wouldn't be able to sit here on the stands and show it on TV. So with the lies about your disbanded parliament, I'm gonna have to ask you to be quiet. And otherwise, I regret that perhaps I, and perhaps my associates from the will, are once again the only ones who have not understood that today is show time... we have not prepared any speeches that are now written and sitting to read them quickly, so I will improvise and again be as brief and clear as possible. There's two of them. One is: we let everyone go, they get sick, they all go, they go, they die, they die, they live, they live! Maybe it's true, but who, who's willing to take responsibility for what happens in Italy and 1,000 people a day die? And if, God forbid, 1,000 people die today in Bulgaria, will we need to take action? Nobody's gonna show their noses from home! So, both throughout the world and in Bulgaria, I believe that the best measures are being taken to prevent this pandemic. Otherwise, the strongest thing is social isolation.. maximum distance from each other, maximum limited contacts and so on. However, the fact is that these restrictive measures create problems for the economy and the business, respectively, of every citizen in Bulgaria. For this, however, we have already taken a decision on the other point, once we have made a decision, as it is throughout the world, to increase the deadline, even as much as we need to fight this crisis and to save, first and foremost, the life and health of Bulgarian citizens, since two weeks ago, we are demanding much more serious measures for economic support for business and citizens. There already, after the state has very strongly addressed the health problem, I hope now as quickly as possible.. what we said two weeks ago: a headquarters to combat economic mortality, so that tomorrow we cannot start talking about how many companies have gone bankrupt today and there are so many unemployed, which will be the next ugly statistic that will flood us. Serious economic measures. We, thank God, are a small country. I believe that the resources needed to deal with the problems in Bulgaria are insignificant on the basis of the budgets of the European Union and our opportunities as a country. I believe that they can seek assistance from both the International Monetary Fund and various European Union funds to work in this direction so that we can create a very strong economic programme to tackle the economic consequences of the crisis. Naturally, there is already a medical question about psychology, about the mental loads that are now falling on the head of the entire Bulgarian people. Our proposal is instead of this data that General Mutafchiyski gives us on TV every day, to come out psychologists rather to calm people who know how it is.....maybe today we need a Kashpirovski much more. [[Elevator bell dings]] The older ones know what this is about, who can help to deal with people and with the psychological problems that arise. You also witnessed ugly scenes a few moments ago, apparently some colleagues are not well affected by isolation, so my request is to help us make the right decision for as long as it takes to deal with health problems and to start working with economic problems immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u120	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. - What's the line? I can't see. A statement, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u121	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! From the statements of BSP colleagues, I understood a few things. The first is that they will not, of course, support the extension of the deadline for a state of emergency. [[Reply from "BSP" for Bulgaria "At this deadline."]] On this deadline. Second, the measures are both too severe and too ineffective. Perhaps in order to become more effective, you need to be lightened by your logic. I think these two guys are fighting. There is no doubt that thanks to the exact measures that you claim to be ineffective, the situation in Bulgaria is radically different from the situation in the countries which Mrs. Ninova gave as an example Italy, Spain, I do not remember the UK, but it could also be arranged there. The fact is that a month ago there were two these who were relatively legitimate both. One was an artifact by Boris Johnson, who said: the English society to acquire cold immunity, the other was that the pandemic should be crossed and the epidemic should be in the bud. Boris Johnson gave up his thesis. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] He gave up. Italy and Spain did not have a chance to think which is better. There are, by the way, socialist governments. I also attach importance to this fact, without wanting to interfere in the internal affairs of Italy and Spain. Another point is that even if I want to, I can't, but they failed, and we don't happen very often this time, but this time we can serve as an example for these countries. It is said, of course, that the two topics are mixed about the health crisis and the subsequent economic crisis. We're trying to solve the problems one by one. First is the task of people's health, then is the task of dealing with the economic crisis. The measures you are criticising, and here it is said that 60:40 was an ineffective measure, and on the third day there are 228 companies that have been involved in this measure. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yeah, 228 on the third day. Let's wait a while, it's probably not enough, there'll probably be other measures. The point is that in you I see a complete misunderstanding of what the situation is, what we are asked for. He wondered here, rather, it was said: but the medical authorities had to decide. Medical officials say the rush will be at the end of April. I do not know which medical persons you are referring to, I refer to the persons from the Operational Headquarters, who are one of the most respected Bulgarian doctors. [[Reply from "BSP" for Bulgaria ": "I" is a fact! "]] They claim plus the mathematicians from BAS who draw models that the peak of the crisis will be April. You say: we scare people! Well, we scare them because it's scary. Because what we're going through isn't any fun, and I can't figure out what kind of mentality you think that this situation that I can determine on an operation in medicine can go without pain. There will be pain and it already exists. However, the question is then that people come out alive and healthy and be ready to work so that we can restore what we have achieved. Because the funniest accusation to us is that we want to stay in a constant state of emergency, to limit people to work, to travel and to do whatever they want. Is there a government that wants to do this? Is there a government that wants at an upward pace of the economy, an increase in incomes suddenly stop, collapse and get into borrowing and into a crisis situation? This is an absolutely unfair accusation that we want the state of emergency to stand as long as possible, because you were the great freedom fighters who would not be heard! We listen to you all day and every day, and under emergency conditions, I am sure that we will still listen to you under dictatorship, because the institutions in Bulgaria are not yet prepared to organise even dictatorship. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] But you need to come to your senses a little bit. You had a sensible attitude until two or three weeks ago and this is not the time for such speculation. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria: The moment is now.]] It's for you now, it's not for us, we take responsibility for what's happening. And today, by the way, we have once again been denied responsibility by the President. [[(Reply from BSP for Bulgaria]] The Bulgarian President hid and hid himself as a man we expected, that at least once in his life he had a responsibility because he held such positions in the army, even though he didn't really win, but today he went out and hid. And I hope your position is not dictated by his, because Bulgaria needs a president right in times of crisis. This institution is so formulated that it must function in times of crisis. We don't have a president right in the crisis, we don't have a National Security Advisory Council for how many months! We don't need this president, and he's gonna be replaced! Thank you. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u122	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. I see two lines here. [[Reply from "BSP" for Bulgaria "No. "]] There was a line, Mr. Bojankov. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Oh, it was a statement? Okay. Then we continue with the speeches. Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u123	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, ministers on line one! The government's motives for extending the state of emergency in the middle of the initial period are unfounded. Firstly, because there is not enough time to assess the outcome of its action and, secondly, as far as we understand it, the reasons are based on the forecast for the peak of the epidemic and nothing else. Of course, this is a forecast, and as all forecasts should be viewed as a forecast on measures and previous actions of the government, as well as, of course, the derivatives of its structures, the so-called headquarters. Dear ministers, the state of emergency, which was supported by the Bulgarian Socialist Party, cannot be seen outside the action of the Emergency Act. [[GERB's line.]] The measures and state of emergency are contained in the Law and in the Minister's orders and it is good to speak within this framework and not outside it. So what does the experience so far show? The previous experience shows a controversial fate of the measures offered as a result of the Minister's orders, unfortunately. I understand the complexity of the situation in which these orders are issued, I understand the dynamics of public opinion, but this shows that there is a serious institutional defect in the management of the current state of emergency. The defect lies in the Law. Evidence of this is the veto of the President, which was imposed on the Law [[GERB lines]] and which you accepted. And which you accepted and supported! The second argument I have with regard to the Law is that on Monday you submit a draft amendment to the Emergency Act. So these are the assessments of the functioning of the state of emergency. The institutional framework for the functioning of the emergency situation is insufficient, poorly conceived and cannot provide for those measures or the functioning of the measures in the way in which they should be optimised at the moment. What do you suggest: continuing the emergency situation in the current state of emergency management? That is, with the Minister's orders, when necessary, and with amendments to the law, when it becomes clear that certain Articles, paragraphs of the Law which was adopted, of the emergency situation, prevent the most elementary activities in the context of a state of emergency. Therefore, our proposal is not to end the measures, and I think that the debate in this direction is pointless, our proposal is that the deadline be until 30 April. We argued that it does not exceed the deadlines set in other European countries, where the situation is no lighter than that in Bulgaria. As for the condition of the holding and the activity of the companies, in Italy, where the situation is the most severe, Prime Minister Conti's proposal is for measures by mid-April at least in terms of the economy, I am not talking about the health and other measures that directly address the spread of the epidemic. Therefore, the proposal you are making is as follows. In the current framework of management of the emergency situation, which in the interest of the truth does not protect you in any way from further errors and from repeating the case of the order that was scheduled in the evening and canceled in the morning, that is, such cases you cannot be sure that you will not again be held in the current way of management. What I propose is - Parliament can also be gathered if necessary to extend the deadline to May 15th and can do so at the end of April. Why are we offering the end of April? Because here someone argued from the platform and said the following: "Let the Bulgarian people have a horizon so that they know what they will do within this period if the horizon is 15 May. " However, in all the work we are debating today, the most important thing is the measure. The measure of measures, in order to enable what the government proposes, to serve to optimize the current legislative and other administrative measures and, on the other hand, in some way to give hope to the Bulgarian citizens that this period can be overcome. It's not an administrative issue, it's psychological, and we all feel it. So we offer 30 April as a date, the same proposal is made by the Patriots. The National Assembly can always meet, as the President said, and extend the deadline until 15 May if the epidemiological situation in the country requires it. None of us are adventurous. We are not a political force that acts destructively, but we take into account the various moods in Bulgarian society. This is what the government should also take into account, to take into account the aggravating situation undoubtedly in the economy and to seek that reasonable measure, that environment, that compromise, which will enable health to be preserved, and at the same time not to discourage the initiative and the tone in the Bulgarian society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u124	We continue with speeches. Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u125	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, to note the attempts to suggest that, who is against the state of emergency by 45 days, is against the medical measures taken because others are missing is absolutely manipulative. Because there's only one thesis here, and I think it's the reasonable one, the informed one, the justified one and the analytic one. A decision of this type with such severe consequences should at least be taken informed and not in the dark. The number of infected is by no means comprehensive information on the development of the epidemic. There is no data and analysis of the whole picture with regard to the results of the measures taken, their effectiveness, preparedness, expectations and so on. Until now, there is no such thing, and this is the duty of executive power. In our proposed decision by the Council of Ministers from the 2nd, the real intention of the executive is once again visible, and it is the award of all powers of the executive power to limit until it finds the fundamental rights and freedoms of the Bulgarian citizens under the pretext of preserving their health and life, for which, of course, to sign them an empty check for 10 billion. lv. at the expense of their future, but that's at the next point. The decision proposed by the Council of Ministers is as follows: it proposes to the National Assembly to assign the Council of Ministers to take all necessary measures to control the emergency situation. This is what we are offered again as a copy-pass, without regard to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 57 and so on. Moreover, the lack of arguments for a 45-day extension of the state of emergency or at least the feeling of lack of coordination in the Council of Ministers in the fight against this disease, because one order is issued to certain ministers, and after a few hours it is cancelled, which speaks of a lack of coordination within the Council of Ministers, creates a sense of chaos and anxiety in the Bulgarian citizens. Do an analysis here refers to the executive authority, forecasts, to gather at the end of April, present them and decide whether it is necessary and how much to extend the emergency situation, and there is no such analysis so far. There are many Bulgarian proverbs in this direction that contain the historical wisdom of our people. For two of them I remember: five measures, once cut; fast work shame to the master, there are many others. You also proved it by this law, which we are now redoing again, and you have tabled proposals again. This is an extremely difficult decision and it should be made informed. Let the executive have its power to do the appropriate analysis, come to inform us, do not prevent then to extend the state of emergency, but let there be an analysis to step on something. So just, let's give, this is absolutely not serious! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u126	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Are there any lines? Are there any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, managing at such difficult times a country is not a privilege, but can really only be characterised by responsibilities. Hardly anyone in this room, and beyond, believes that the most fundamental human right is the preservation of his life and his health and access to health, especially when it comes to such an epidemiological situation. I did not understand the opposition of what it was like. Today, President Radev also did not understand what he was thinking, although I am expressing sympathy for his suffering, which he is experiencing on a personal level today. I don't understand the BSP colleagues. Are you now the measures the government is taking or are you not? Are you for the extension of the state of emergency or not? The answer to my question is this: You simply, like the President, do not want to be responsible, you are afraid of the word "responsibility." As I said earlier, the wage dispute, which has always been very humiliating for me, is somehow a lack of self-respect not only for the MPs, in general, is not the way to please people with whether we will punish ourselves, whether we will deprive ourselves of wages, any other self-punishment, torture that can be applied, but what politicians do when they look at this room and all the people who are responsible, especially at times so difficult for the state. We need to look objectively, because we are giving an example of other countries, somehow we do not want to admit ourselves and somehow shyly say that Bulgaria had the courage to submit such a proposal long before other countries did so, long before other countries, which have much greater economic and financial capacity, with a much more advanced healthcare system, have not dared to do so, and this must not be forgotten. On the contrary, we must thank ourselves, give ourselves some high appreciation, including our fellow Members on the left, because you also supported on 13 March the desire for a state of emergency in the Emergency Act. Bulgaria was one of the first countries not afraid to do it, and all countries, even Britain, even the United States of America, who had a very different vision at the beginning of the pandemic, somehow didn't do it, somehow scared them. And now it turns out that the small Bulgaria with the not-so-great economy, with not-so-great financial opportunities is one of the first countries to take this step forward. And when you talk about analysis, colleagues, what analysis do you want? Every single day, the government heads up with the prime minister in charge of headquarters is on TV every day, they are asked questions from every single media for one or two hours, as long as it takes to answer the public of all questions, so even so many crazy questions are sometimes asked by citizens, but ultimately the government is obliged to do so at this time. Let us not go back in time in one another crisis, although it is not a topic today of how the state and society and actually a very small group of people knew what it was all about. Now I don't think there's a single person in this country who doesn't know how many the victims are, how many the infected, all the measures they take, what they lead to, so don't talk about analysis! A clearer analysis than that Bulgaria is currently holding the situation and that there are places in hospitals, that anyone who exhibits symptoms can go and pay attention to it, there is no better analysis than whether we should continue or not the appropriate measures. Of course, it is the government's and us's job to decide what we will do with the consequences of them, but I hope that at least on the subject of a state of emergency and the continuation of these quarantine measures there should be no doubt. At the moment and just before, one statistics are being read against the other countries, as Bulgaria is at the bottom of the ranking, this means that we have done a good job at this stage. Of course, in the coming days and months, a very big responsibility lies with all of us and the government on how to get out of this situation whenever it ends. You can't imagine that me and every normal person at a working age would want to sit at home and look at the ceiling?! Well, there's no such person. I must tell you that the people with whom I communicate with my acquaintances and friends, there is not a single person who calls into question the continuation of this quarantine at all, and on the contrary, there are even people who believe that even more stringent measures are needed. At this point, unfortunately, there is no other option. We have given ourselves time since the introduction of the emergency situation with the risk that the government has taken because it is a risk, it is a great risk, it does not bear a positive, it brings only a negative, at some point hunger will become very serious and many people will suffer, and because of that, it is absolutely non-alternative for me to continue the emergency situation. We've given ourselves enough time so that everyone can fit into this situation right now, the world can figure out if it's gonna be a vaccine, if it's gonna get to know the virus, the doctors are the ones who have to give the guidelines. You don't appreciate anything else, and the government is not the leading factor in this crisis, it is the implementation of the measures that experts say. It is no coincidence that it is not political, so it is not GERB, so that it is not someone else, it is not the opposition, but it is the people who are only involved in this direction. So, colleagues, for me it is unalternative the continuation of the state of emergency.. God forbid it is 13 May, God forbid it is earlier! But given that all doctors, specialists, mathematicians, every person who has an attitude on this subject, says that we have not yet reached it and that we are at the beginning of the peak........................... to be wrong,.......................................... we must be wrong, we must respect their opinion and we must be responsible, and we must be responsible, because wages do not make Parliament's high ratings, but the responsible decisions for which we will judge us in the future. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u128	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. - What's the line? Hold on, Mr. Zarkov. Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Nenkov, I would very kindly recommend you when you speak on the issues of the analyses, only the Chairman of the parliamentary group of the DSS allowed himself quite modestly to present some of the data on a global scale, keep in mind two things, because you do not understand anything about these things. First, that the mortality that is currently cited is not clear at all whether it is directly related to the CoVID-19 infection and, secondly, that the number of infected is extrapolated mathematically to the number of people tested per million and not to the population proven per million. I am even happy that Professor Ivanov, who is a doctor like me, does not spread in these analyses and there will still be serious analyses. So, Mr. Nenkov, I ask you to be more precise in your speech and in your accusations to colleagues from the other main parliamentary group and to know that we are not against the introduction of the emergency situation. We have given a very real proposal: to be precise when this state of emergency expires. The colleagues at the Operational Headquarters shared in a statement that they expect the peak to come by the end of April, that is, then to start the decline, and that is not yet an accurate calculation, because they also do not allow themselves to say it. So no one should afford this serious subject, which is being closely monitored around the world, speculation, rhetorical exercises, and I ask you to be a little more tolerant in your assessments of what is shared in this House. No one in the BSP parliamentary group has declared themselves against the state of emergency, against government measures, but we are here to refine these measures in a linear period of time. This is our thesis, Mr. Nenkov. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u130	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. Second line, Mr. Zarkov? You've given up. There's no other line. Mr. Nenkov, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Professor Mihailov, with all due respect, I wouldn't even allow myself to do an attempt at analysis and especially on a subject that is very far away from me. What I said was very simple: as a citizen, not as a member of parliament, I see that the state is currently dealing with the situation that is out of control in other countries. Better analysis than that, I don't see what else I can do. I don't want to argue about numbers, about what mortality is, and most likely, when the pandemic passes, this summary analysis will happen. He is already in the field of all medical professionals who will analyze what happened, how it happened and why. I see that the measures at this stage give their good reflection, because hospitals are not full of people who are in severe, critical condition, and so we've done our job. The other thing I said is that we should give ourselves a high grade and I said about your parliamentary group for a reason, because you supported the introduction of this emergency, because Bulgaria was one of the first countries to do so. That's my line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u132	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Mr. Bojankov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u133	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! Our position is clear and it is not an expression of opposition because of opposition itself. The extraordinary situation we have voted on is an expression of a huge credit of confidence in a government, for which we have, in principle, expressed a clear position that it does not deserve credit of trust. Such is the situation, such is our responsibility as opposition. We have voted in this way, whether we are all and unlimited power of government, but with a clear horizon, with a moment when we need to review how this government is doing in a state of emergency. At the moment, our assessment is negative. We are voting in this way because the executive is giving contradictory signals. It is not an assessment of the BSP.............. the opinions of employers, trade unions............................................................................ They are assessing as inadequate measures at the moment. That's our point. Look at the signals that the executive is sending to the Prime Minister to guide young people to become shepherds, now direct them to sell their cars, but at such a critical time this creates panic in society. In the end, we came to the point that he called: "The Lord must help! " At a critical time when the Bulgarians are scared, the chairman of the meeting is holding an extraordinary press conference in the middle of the night, everyone is waking us up on the phones, most of us expect that someone has declared war on us and all this is causing fear. Each of our actions affects the store, affects the market, affects society's behaviour [[GERB lines]] It affects the Bulgarian economy. Since we see that so far you are working in this way, we have decided to propose an alternative solution in order to still have some control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u134	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. We continue with Minister Goranov at the same point. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Colleagues, please let Minister Goranov speak. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u135	I'll be very brief. I'll try not to provoke you. We realize that the dispute is actually for two weeks. Two weeks is a political and historical nanosecond, but for the disease is probably its entire manifestation from the outbreak to the death of someone who is vulnerable. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that the Emergency Act contains a number of rules and regulations governing the conduct of institutions and businesses in this state, some of which are primarily for the benefit of society. Including even the measure which is still contradictory to beneficiaries, in their opinion, a benefit for maintaining employment. Even it is fixed by the term of validity due to the state of emergency. We remain in the position agreed with the doctors. I thank those who support our thesis that, between 30 April and 13 May, apart from getting more negative statistics on the evolution of the epidemiological situation, nothing will change. So let's end this debate. Everyone has declared their political position. I am convinced that the state of emergency is filled with the content of the legislation that we are going to vote in the next item. If anything in it bothers you or wants to be limited as a period of action, you have the opportunity to display. We bear our political responsibility for this period. Hopefully enough, although there are many arguments to think that we still do not have a clear strategy, not how we get into this crisis, not how we behave during it, but how we get out. But let us leave this debate for the next session of the Bulgarian Parliament. I ask the Members of the National Assembly, regardless of what political position they are from, to support the extension of the emergency situation, not because of the extraordinary measures that the government has which I do not see very clearly awarded, but because of the fact that the Emergency Act will act with clear predictability in terms of economic operators, in terms of citizens' rights and, above all, let us not ride this populist thesis which, in fact, me and my family are concerned about what day we will emerge from the crisis. We're not going to come up with an annulment of the state of emergency, fellow Members! It is a legal framework for how the state can function and we should not hesitate all these conscientious Bulgarian citizens, especially in the capital city, who comply with the measures. Any questioning of the only possible measures relating to limiting social isolation should be seen as a prerequisite for social isolation, but under other legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u136	Thank you, dear Minister. Switching to third item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE STATE BUDGET OF BULGARIA FOR 2020 Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, you have the floor to present to us the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u137	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020, No 002-01-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 March 2020. At a meeting held on 3 April 2020, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance: Vladislav Goranov The bill was presented by Minister Goranov. In the current unprecedented situation in which many countries in the world are struggling with all available resources to limit the spread of the COVID-19 infection, the dimensions of the crisis for both the European and the world economy cannot yet be evaluated and predicted. Against this background, the European Commission proposed the activation of the Common Safeguard Clause of the Stability and Growth Pact, which would allow Member States to take measures to address the spread of the virus by temporarily diverting from their medium-term budgetary objective. In this way, national governments are given the opportunity to take measures in a state of emergency, which implies an increase in public spending against the backdrop of expected revenue default and therefore requires temporary financial loosening. The macroeconomic scenario of the Bill was developed in a hypothesis to control the pandemic in Bulgaria in line with international processes and parallel economic recovery. Expectedly, the exceptional measures will have a longer period of action and will have a significant impact on economic activity in the second and partly in the third quarter of 2020. This will have a significant negative impact on economic activity and globally, while global GDP will remain slightly below its 2019 level, with a decline of 0.3%. The European Union's economy will be more seriously affected and shrink by around 4% in 2020. In 2020, there is expected to be a 3% drop in GDP in the country in real terms as a result of reduced private consumption, negative prospects for investment activity and a reduction in exports of goods and services. Government spending is expected to make a positive contribution to economic growth. Due to the restrictive measures, it is expected to decrease the consumption of services by households and, in particular, services related to culture and entertainment, hotels and restaurants, tourist packages. The decline in employment and expectations of a limit on the available income will also contribute to a lower consumption of both services and goods for long-term use. In addition, increased uncertainty will lead to a limitation of some consumer spending and the formation of household savings. Unprecedented traffic limitation measures adopted by all countries will significantly affect exports of transport and tourist services. This is expected to affect the decline in the real export of services by 25.7% in 2020 compared to 2019. Limited demand in our main trading partners and extended delivery deadlines will also affect the export of goods, which is expected to fall by 13.3%. Total exports of goods and services will decrease by 16.3% in 2020 in the case of growth of 1,9% in 2019 compared to 2018 and a decline of 11,7% in the crisis. Following the positive development of the labour market in 2019 and the historically highest levels of employment and the lowest levels of unemployment, expectations for 2020, the trend is to reverse. The number of employees is expected to fall slightly below 4% in the second quarter and exceed 5% in the third quarter on an annual basis, with employment recovery expected to start only at the end of the year. The average annual decline in employed is estimated at 2.1% and the unemployment rate is expected to rise by about 2 percentage points compared to 2019 to 6.2%. In 2020, both domestic and external inflation factors are expected to be severely limited. For 2020, the overall level of consumer prices is expected to remain almost unchanged, i.e. inflation to be close to zero percent. Deficit of revenue under the state budget and the state social security budget is forecast. The estimates of the underlying scenario show a non-compliance with the annual revenue projections under the consolidated fiscal programme of around 2,44 billion. BGN, and will be affected the main taxes - VAT, excise duties, corporate taxes, personal income tax, social insurance contributions and others. For the preservation of jobs in the country the government offers and is adopted the so-called measure 60/40. The circle of companies that can benefit from the measure is as wide as possible, covering a large number of industries and industries. In connection with the provision of the necessary resources, the Bill proposes an increase in expenditure on the budget of the State Social Security Fund for the State Social Security Fund, amounting to 1 billion. lv. In addition, in relation to the projected non-compliance with the social security contributions revenue of the State-owned social security budget, by 430 million. lv. A change in the size of the state budget's budgetary relations with the IPO budget is also required and it is proposed to be increased by 1.43 billion. BGN, including 1 billion. lv. For additional costs and 430 million lv. to compensate for expected non-compliance with revenue from the State social security budget. Another measure in favour of the economy and the most affected by the crisis is the government's decision to increase the capital of the Bulgarian Development Bank by 700 million. BGN, with 500 million of them. lv. The Bulgarian Development Bank will be able to provide guarantees to the other banks in providing them with loans to support businesses experiencing liquidity and lending difficulties. Multiplication of the effect is expected so that the total amount that banks can provide will reach 2.5 billion. lv. The remaining 200 million. lv. the increased capital of the BBI will be able to serve as a guarantee to banks for granting consumer interest-free loans to people who remained unemployed during the crisis. The maximum amount of loan that any person meeting the requirements can receive is BGN 1500 and the period and the refund scheme will be as relieved as possible. In view of the financing of the forecast deficit of 3,5 billion. BGN, the acquisition of resources for the implementation of the measures through additional capitalization of BBI by 700 million. lv. and following the conservative approach to provide an additional buffer in case of a negative crisis and a need for liquidity, there is also a change in government debt limiters for 2020. An increase in the maximum amount of the new government debt, which can be taken over in 2020, of 2.2 billion, is proposed. lv. at 10 billion. BGN, which represents an increase of 7.8 billion. lv. The necessary resources at the moment to cover the deficit and capitalization of the BBI amount to 4.2 billion. BGN, with the remaining amount to be used only in a negative scenario and will serve as an additional buffer with a high degree of uncertainty in which they are drawn up the estimates of the proposed bill. In this respect, an increase in interest costs for the State budget of 70 million is also envisaged. leva. In summary, the proposed draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020 reduces the parameters for the basic taxes on the state budget by 2 013,8 million. BGN, interest costs increased by 70 million. The transfer to the budget of the state social security by 1 430 million is also increased. leva. The proposed changes in revenue, expenditure and transfers also change the balance of the state budget from surplus 62.4 million. lv. the deficit of 3 451,5 million. BGN, or 2.9% of the estimated gross domestic product. The bill also proposes a change in the budget of the DEA, which results from the effects mentioned above. Revenues under the state social security budget are reduced by 430 million. BGN, the cost of the fund "Unemployment" for the provision of the measure 60/40 increased by 1,0 billion. lv. and therefore the budgetary relationship with the state budget is increased to 1 430 million. lv. to cover the deficit of the DCI's 2020 budget These estimates also change the estimated balance of the consolidated fiscal programme for 2020, with the projected deficit of 3 513.8 million. BGN, or 3,0% of the estimated gross domestic product. Following the discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020, No 002-01-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 March 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u138	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u139	Mr. Chairman, we wanted at least Deputy Minister Velkova to let us in, but I don't know what the procedure is.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u140	Let them come when they come.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u141	Because we can't let them go, so I'm asking if there's...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u142	The Minister is here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u143	Invite her in, it's not a violation. Compared to 10 billion, it's nothing.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u144	Colleagues, we're moving on. We're opening the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u145	Won't the minister speak?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u146	The minister, whenever he wants. Mr. Gechev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u147	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister Goranov, Dear colleagues! Firstly, I would like to express satisfaction that the Minister of Finance has respected us and is here. And to express the confusion that always in recent years, when the budget or its update is tabled, the Prime Minister does not respect the National Assembly and does not appear. President Macron appears, Chancellor Merkel appears, President Trump appears, but Mr. Borisov does not want to. That, of course, is his choice. First of all, what are the facts? Our parliament is asked to vote on a budget update of 10 billion. lv. for the entire 2020 period, of 2.2 billion. BGN allowed so far, an increase of 7,8.. a total of 10 billion. The question arises about this fact: why is it necessary to draw such a huge, record in Bulgaria's business history a loan for a year, after according to the government and its proposals, the government predicts that the budget deficit will be 3 billion. 500 million. BGN, 700 million lv. The Commission notes that the Bank's restructuring plan is in line with the restructuring plan of the Bank. lv. For the guarantee of loans to companies and 200 million lv. for interest-free loans and consumer credit guarantees. That's $4 billion. 200 million. lv. And they ask: if we have a fiscal reserve of 10 billion. BGN, as the government claims, and as Mr. Borisov argues, that the people are full of money, what is required to draw such a huge one, as colleagues call, an additional buffer rate of 10 billion. lv. for 2020? Let me remind you that the fiscal reserve itself is a fiscal buffer. That's the point of the fiscal reserve. Both in theory and in practice, the fiscal reserve is therefore a reserve in times of crisis, of unforeseen circumstances to use it if the government decides how to use it and to what extent. So we're worth 10 billion. lv. We have a fiscal reserve of 5 billion. BGN, which are inviolable. They are the NPP Fund, Kozloduy and the Silver Fund. There remains a relatively free 5 billion. lv. And the required new debt by the end of the year to 8 billion. BGN, together with already authorised, becomes 15 billion. lv. for 2020 Besides, the government doesn't tell us there's any hidden reserves. 1 billion lv. The government said it will not be spent in this crisis to buy new ships and fighting equipment. So it's going to be another billion. BGN, which is not here in government estimates. The government has pre-set a billion and a half for the construction of the highway. In these difficult conditions, what part of this billion and a half will possibly be used in 2020? Can't this project be fun? Or if a billion and a half are used for 500 million, it's another billion reserves that the government doesn't say anything about. I will open a brace to say that it was no accident that we criticized you, that, to the astonishment of the world, we paid military planes for two and a half billion to the United States of America, which, today, saw a message that would be delivered January 2024. We specifically warned you. Now that's two and a half billion we won't be able to use. And instead of sending masks to the doctors on line one and protective clothing, then take a picture of the F-16 project and send it to the doctors on line one. In our view, there is no reason to suddenly ask for such a huge loan, provided that if it turns out that for some external and internal reasons it is necessary for the government of Bulgaria to allocate more budget funds, the Constitution and the laws have signed a clear procedure. No member state of the European Union has so far had such an approach on the basis of vague forecasts and vague expectations that it would want for the whole year a capital loan, which, by the way, means 30% increase in Bulgaria's public debt in 2020. It is an increase in gross domestic product slightly above 8%, but given what the share is now, the debt itself is actually increasing by 1/3. And it is still very far from the European Union's restrictions of 60%, but expresses a reverse trend that can become a snowball. I have a very big surprise for you. You have not yet seen the published text of a prominent political actor of GERB party, famous, established. I quote: The new loan is intended to provide a buffer, which is by no means an active policy. The reasons for the Law do not provide an analysis of what is the optimal level of the fiscal reserve, how this level is calculated and how much the country needs to form additional buffers and what is their acceptable price. The law does not contain any guarantees of appropriate, transparent and publicly controlled spending of this loan. President Plevneliev, when he vetoed one billion government request 2013 to refinancing the debt! So Mr. Plevneliev told you very accurately. Good afternoon! This buffer has no analysis and no justification. Then we cannot accept your proposals, which turn out not to work, honourable Members! The unions and employers told you that the principle of the distribution of 1 billion. lv. 60/40 is unsuccessful and that only 8% of companies have declared a possible desire to use this measure. This is the lowest ratio proposed by the Member States of the European Union. Romania next door proposed 75/25. The actual burden of companies which are already in a difficult situation will be over 60%, so the Chamber of Commerce, Employers and Trade Unions explain to you that this measure will not work. And write down that you will come to the gym and you will want it to be changed. We have an alternative that we will present for second reading. I explain: by the same means, we have done our work, we are obliged, with the same 1 billion. lv. we will offer you an option that will help the self-employed, the unemployed on 13 March 2020. With the same billion leva! And you will see that our option will receive much greater support. Secondly, we want guarantees that the money of the Bulgarian people is 700 million. BGN, which will go through the Bulgarian Development Bank, will reach the needy companies and citizens. We want you to answer: it is known that the Development Bank has entered into direct lending contracts, concluded credit agreements through commercial banks, as it has no branch network of its own and has no way of working electively with many small and medium-sized companies. What part of that 500 million. lv. expect you to be allocated directly from the bank's management to companies that are already expecting this credit, and what sectors of the economy do you expect to use these loans? How many will pass through the commercial banks and how will you select these banks? Are you going to select them, or are you going to market them? Do you have any prognosis on these funds going to which industries? Since the banks are quite naturally working on a commercial basis and most of their shareholders are not Bulgarians, 70 percent are foreign assets, they do not care which sector the money goes to and which companies, but we should be interested in. That's why we ask these questions. In addition, you offer only loans to companies and citizens in practice. The concern of this government is how to provide only loans. Excuse me, but the measures of the whole of Europe, do a comparative analysis of the Member States of the European Union, they are not only loans which there is undoubtedly. There is also direct aid based on socio-economic indicators of the families from the most developed countries to Romania. On this basis, we do not agree, firstly, to ask for an empty check of 10 billion. lv. for the whole year, since you have no argument not to come to Parliament on Monday to request a new update and to gather and vote on Tuesday to you an amount, reasonable and justified. So to get you an empty check so you can distribute these funds at the end of the year with ministerial decrees before the upcoming elections, there is no way you can lie to the opposition. Take a look at the practice of the European Union and come back to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u148	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Tishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u149	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! In addition to the arguments that counterpart Gechev said from this tribune, I expected in the Bill on State Budget update to have very serious support for the Bulgarian municipalities. I had even prepared a few questions for Mr. Minister in the Commission this morning: how this support will be provided to the Bulgarian municipalities, whether it was needed or in the form of interest-free loans, as happened in 2014 for municipalities that had deposits in KTB and the Ministry of Finance granted them such funds. Turns out there's not a single lev in this update. The only finding the minister made this morning was: we'll see, we'll wait, we'll analyze. It should be clear to everyone that the Bulgarian municipalities currently have no income and they expect this update of the budget and what will be allocated to them so that they can make their adjustments and measures to be foreseen from now on. Currently, municipalities have no income, because no one goes out and pays local taxes and fees, and as you know, the main revenue in municipalities, especially individuals, is now March and April. Since no one goes out because of quarantine or because of the fear of COVID-19, where do they get these funds? For example, the municipality of Burgas has 70% less revenue collected compared to a year ago. What we do with Black Sea municipalities, where more than 80% of the revenues, whether directly or indirectly in the local budget, local revenues are from the tourist season, tourism, and summer tourism. Well, there's not gonna be any hiking this year. Bulgarian municipalities are going towards financial collapse. If VAT revenues from other possible sources still flow in the state budget, then the municipalities are really on the verge of closing. Keep in mind that there are municipalities that release their employees on unpaid leave, because otherwise they can't stand it. We say that we must help these legal and natural persons who are on the front line in the fight against COVID-19, but believe me, Bulgarian municipalities are on the front line. They provide food for the unemployed, provide food for the socially weak, provide food in the slums, provide donations to public and municipal hospitals, if you will even public transport, which is currently charged with making more transports, with fewer passengers, i.e. going to loss. The municipalities must also finance it. Where do they get that money? There's no way. And based on everything I've said so far, not a single lev is meant for the municipalities. One more interesting thing. I do not notice in the proposals for an update of the budget any adjustment in capital expenditure - for example the construction of the highway "Hemus" or the cost of military equipment for the land forces for warships for the Navy. The state budget is like the family budget. One family, having restrictions, leaves the expensive expenses aside. No one is currently going to buy a new car, but only bets on those costs that are precisely intended for the current situation in order to survive. We don't see anything like that. Again, I give you an example with the Bulgarian municipalities. At the moment, they are massively canceling, delaying public procurement, applications that are financed by local revenues, because there are none, and there is no provision in the state budget. In conclusion, in the budget update there is no change in the transfer costs to the municipalities, this is an inadequate response to the real situation in the country. I believe that you will soon understand this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u150	Thank you, dear Mr. Tishev. Will there be any lines to Mr. Tishev's statement? I won't. Colleagues, do you have any other speeches from the other parliamentary groups? Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u151	Madam President, ministers and colleagues. The proposed update of the 2020 budget for us is a recognition of failure and a blank check for the political survival of Borisov and the government. Why did you fail? The update of the budget must solve the problems encountered in different sectors as a result of the crisis. Before we start discussing the changes, we need to have a complete picture of the starting point from which we start. What is the current financial situation of Bulgaria? On 29 February 2020, we found out from the Finance Minister, and I quote: as of February 2020, we are making a surplus of 1.5 billion. lv. Three weeks later, on 18 March, we heard from Prime Minister Borisov, again I quote, so that there will be no further accusations of untruths: from surplus in late February the budget is already at a deficit of 3.5 billion. lv. In three weeks, according to Finance Minister and Prime Minister, 5 billion. lv. They just disappeared. We're asking where they are? Why aren't they here? We received a response from the prime minister himself, again a quote: we are in deficit because the budget is not being filled, and every month billions are going to the pension system. If we follow logic, the dates, the numbers of Prime Minister Borisov, he, respected pensioners, claims that you have melted the state treasury in 3 weeks by 5 billion. lv. However, the facts are different. Monthly for pensions from the budget, 770 million is allocated. lv. I leave the conclusions to you, but for us the conclusion is as follows the excess bubble, for flowering, for prosperity has burst. The truth is shining. The numbers were fake and the budget was hollow. Borisov's government now wants a loan of up to 10 billion. lv. to deal with the crisis. It will undoubtedly have to take loans, but not in this amount and not for such spending. In the reasons of the proposal, the following problems are outlined, and I will also start with the most important one for us, of course, workers and job retention, self-serving and pensioners. We will try to reason from their point of view, to put ourselves in their place. What's with the $10 billion? Helping them? How much of this money will reach these people and ease them into the crisis? The government has already proposed to the workers the so-known measure 60/40. There's a lot of comment. Only 8% of companies said yesterday that they would benefit from this measure because it burdened them too much and preferred to release workers. So they become unemployed, go to the labor desks, burden the National Insurance Institute, and sooner or later the National Insurance Institute will experience huge difficulties. I mean, what do you get out of this measure? The workers are losing their jobs. Employers lose their workers. The state loses because the National Insurance Institute will be overloaded and sooner or later it will blow up. I mean, everyone loses to this measure. For self-affirmers, how will the update help you? Nothing. Days of culture, science, education, architects, engineers and journalists "You even the measure 60/40 does not catch you. Moreover, in the Emergency Act, even the procrastination periods for your declarations do not apply, you will have to submit them. Dear pensioners, what will you feel from this debt to 10 billion.? Nothing either. Fifty million for Easter allowances that had them before and an increase in the Swiss rule, which has been set in the budget so far, but not a word about an increase in pensions, recalculation. In other words, the groups of Bulgarians, which I have so far defined, approximately 3.5 million. workers, pensioners, self-insuring, will get nothing real from this update. The second reason to ask for an update in the motives is the expected decline in the economy. It is described in this way in the government's proposal, I quote: uncertainty will lead to a decline in total investment, exports of goods and services will decrease by 16%, a particular risk exists for micro and small businesses. Perfect findings. Let's see how the debt of 10 billion. will help the economy in these directions? The business with 500 million, in the Bank for Development for Company Credits. What are they saying? We can take credit now. We've had enough already. We don't want money from the state, we want support, we want honesty, that's a quote. This word "honesty" expresses the doubts of many not only from the business that these companies in the Development Bank will benefit only 5 - 6 large, which still used the resources of the Bulgarian Bank for Development. They'll use it again, and for the small and medium-sized business, nothing. Here the decision, which they are expecting and which we will offer on their behalf between first and second reading, is: freezing the payment of rents for example, exemption from tax garbage for non-working enterprises, deposition of property taxes or tax vacations, something that does not want real money to give the state, but can help the business. On the subject of exports that will fall. The logical measure, the alternative measure, is to strengthen the capacity of the Bulgarian Export Insurance Agency. Unfortunately, there's not a word about it. Investments, you predict, will fall. The alternative solution is to strengthen public investment, increase public investment in order to compensate for the decline in the investment process. Alas, that is not in the Budget Update Act. The third economic element after growth and investment is consumption. The government points out in the reasons for a loan, I quote: a drop in consumption is expected by households. Okay. What is the response in government policy and in the specific update to help households and increase consumption? One - one - take interest-free credit of BGN 1500. Do you honourable rulers realize how many households and now live with one, with two credits that they cannot serve? Who will take third credit if they are unemployed, if there is absolute uncertainty about their future, if they have stayed away from work to look after their children because they do not go to school? They have no clarity about what will happen to them and their families and do not want to take another loan they will have to pay back. In other words, you do not help households with real measures. Here's the alternative solution, what is it? Grants as in Italy, as in Greece, as in the United States, which provide either a minimum wage, or a certain amount of family, or vouchers to benefit from families. Alas, he's not in your proposal. There's something else about this update. Actually, there are three things. The first, the vain promises. You said you'd set aside $500 million for doctors, police and military on line one. There is no increase in money either in the Ministry of Defense, here in this law, not in the Ministry of Interior, not in the Ministry of Health or where you want to pay for it to doctors. We heard today that they will pay off, but they are not written in the Law. They're not in the update. Where would that 500 million come from when it wasn't reflected here for cops, military and doctors? The second thing is false promises. On March 15th, you said: we are freezing the defence projects, the project for two multifunctional patrol ships for 984 million. and 150 armored machines for 1.469 billion, closing quote. Here, in your budget update, the costs of these projects stand. You will spend nearly 2 billion on military equipment, provided that in a month or two, many Bulgarians will have nothing to eat!? Why is this promise not reflected in the budget update? I'll probably have reason to call it a lie. The solution here, of course, is to freeze these costs to optimize and redirect them to areas where they will not only help Bulgarian citizens, but will also give added value to the economy. The third, the hidden intentions of spending money in the dark, I am talking about European funds. I don't know why the Minister of Finance came out, but I have a question for him. [[Replication by "BSP" for Bulgaria ":" Out of shame. "]] Yeah, out of shame. I have a question for him: why is there no European aid mentioned in the budget update? And do not say that we will transfer from the European programmes in Bulgaria funds that are not used by one programme, you will direct them to another and therefore there is no impact in the budget! Because the European Commission has decided for Bulgaria, at least for now, outside of these funds we have here, approximately 1 billion. EUR for Bulgaria and maybe this is not the final solution. Maybe there'll be more. Why aren't they in the budget as revenue, in the revenue section? And how will you spend it when they come? Opaque, of course, because they're not in cost. There is not a single euro increase in your budget on this European solidarity line. I am graduating, usually rarely quoting the prime minister, because there is not much to quote, in his words of March 28, this is only six days ago, he says: "We can borrow money, but they will have to return with interest from our children from the next generations. Dear Bulgarian citizens, this budget update does not solve the problems arising from the crisis it deepens them. It will take this huge loan of 10 billion, but it will not reach those who need it the most, but will return, as the prime minister himself says, from the children and from the generations after them. We from BSP for Bulgaria will not be a part of this. We will not support the budget update. Between first and second readings, we will propose those policies and such texts that will actually help the economy get out of the crisis and stabilize itself, actually help each of you to stabilize, and get out of this crisis together. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u152	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? First, I look at the other parliamentary groups. Colleagues? Mr. Mikhailov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u153	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ministers, dear colleagues! It is clear to all of us that the COVID-19 crisis has several aspects in the modern world. They are social, economic, undoubtedly political, will turn out subsequently, but the first, the main part of the crisis is pressing heavily on the health systems of the countries affected by this pandemic. You can already see from the data of the so-called Worldometer of the World Health Organization that there are practically no countries that are not affected by the pandemic. In this aspect there are two main areas of load and, to my great amazement, I would be happy to hear here the answer of both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Health, we see no change at all in the budget update of the Ministry of Health or the National Health Insurance Fund. Those who deal with health care know that emergency care, which will now be not logarithmic but extremely heavily burdened in the next 20 days, because in the words of experts dealing with the spread of the disease in Bulgaria, the number of cases will increase at least by the end of April. This means that in April the emergency aid in Bulgaria, which is paid according to a methodology by the Ministry of Health, will be extremely burdened and it needs to be financially secured. This means not only securing the work of medical professionals, but also providing fixed tangible assets, as we very well know that the readiness, unfortunately, of the health system due to the modest financial capacity of the state, is not at the level of such a challenge as we are currently experiencing. Secondly, there is a paradox that, my fellow ministers, suggests that the way we have been financing the health care system, which we have been talking about for more than three years in plenary, is now placing you with a puzzle that is virtually unsolvable. For us are absolutely non-professional, not to say another harsh word, proposals to pay hospitals, to finance them on a historical basis, whichever month you choose from the previous ones in the year or the previous year! The speed of hospitals that defended themselves so zealously that this way the financing of the health system should be assessed has now fallen to the absolutely critical minimum! That is, if they are to be financed by the National Health Insurance Fund on the financing methodology of the health system, which carries over 90% of its funding, namely the NHIF, they will not work at the moment. It would be absolutely unreasonable on a historical basis to pay 100% of the funding of any month. This is a serious challenge. There must be a very close link between the accounts of all hospitals in the country, which are provided monthly to the Ministry of Health and the National Health Insurance Fund, so that hospitals can be financed, but not on a chaotic, muddled principle, but to provide the salaries of the specialists there, the costs of first-generation supplies, all other refined costs, which come out every month as information from hospitals to the Ministry of Health. All this requires a serious rethink of both the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund at the moment and the budget of the Ministry of Health. Between first and second readings, we will submit concrete proposals in this direction. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u154	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Statements, coworkers? Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u155	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! Earlier today, in the Budget Committee, we discussed the parameters of the Council of Ministers' proposals for amending the state budget for 2020 and given the global economic crisis and in Bulgaria it is normal to consider these proposals from the National Assembly in the revenue section of the budget. Here for me is the confusion of the broad misunderstanding of how state finances operate and what is the function of the state's budget through its revenue and spending policy. It is normal to expect less revenue in the budget for this year for objective reasons, which we will all obviously witness if not now, then soon, to talk about a budget deficit in carrying out the same costs. And even in the proposed by the Council of Ministers, set out in the Project, for a review of the 2020 budget is the increase of the Fund. BGN to take over the two functions that we commented on. One measure promoted to society and business, known as 60:40, and the other measure we have witnessed in the last days.. The increase of the unemployed Bulgarians. Colleagues on the left, given your speeches in the Budget Committee and just now of this tribune, I am somewhat explaining why your governments are always characterized by less successful financial development of the state and of the Bulgarian citizens. Because you have some general misunderstandings for me that amaze you, given that you speak and are specialists in the budgetary sphere and in terms of finances, what is the function of the budget. First of all, honourable Members, prostate arithmetic shows that we cannot be talking about a 10 billion blank check here. You have mentioned it several times.. you could not even make the simple account and even had colleagues from other parliamentary groups to do so. The amount of 10 billion in making a new commitment to sovereign debt, when 2.2 billion we have set out in the budget that we voted on at the end of last year, is falling. So it's not 10 billion new debt, it's 7.8. In the proposal that we see, with less revenue from the budget,.................................................................................................... BGN, and 1 billion lv. an increase in the share of the guarantee that the Fund is unemployed, that is another 3.5 billion. BGN, which the deficit in some form must fill. I mean, colleagues, that 10 billion. lv. They're slowing down again. Adding the 700 million. lv. a state guarantee through the Bulgarian Development Bank for individuals and to secure loans to the business in order to support the preservation of work, as far as possible, remains some 3.5 billion. lv. I mean, your ten billion dollar theory. lv. an empty check is smashed to the ground with simple arithmetic! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Anyone who can count can do it. I did, and we told you a few times. So that's 3.5 billion. BGN, colleagues, if it is imposed to be withdrawn from the Bulgarian State under an issue of external or internal or other form of financing, of course, the other misunderstanding you have about the state budget is that the state budget cannot be exceeded and spent by the Council of Ministers with no lev on top of the vote here in plenary, by the MPs, if it is not really in revoting. That is, we cannot talk about any means above those proposed today. I hope that the majority of MPs will support them in the 2020 budget. Another, fellow Members, you have obviously a huge misunderstanding about the fiscal reserve. What's the fiscal reserve? To you, the word "supposes" clearly unlocks you something like Pavlov's lamp, and you hear only money to spend. No, the fiscal reserve, colleagues, apart from the five billion that the non-negotiables mentioned here, the funds of the Silver Fund and those that are for the security of the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" and the energy system in Bulgaria, the other funds are all available funds and accounts of the National Health Insurance Fund, of the public insurance fund "Police," social security, and of all ministries and state companies. It's these funds, colleagues. And when we talk about normal liquidity, as is written in the draft decision that the Council of Ministers has proposed to our attention, it is indeed with a new debt to cover the deficit and the new costs that the government will have in order to ensure the social security of the system and to support the business. We have also heard Minister Goranov's assurance in the Budget Committee that other measures are being considered to support business and Bulgarian citizens. I think it gives the Bulgarian citizen a very clear idea of what the fiscal reserve is. Unfortunately, you don't seem to have been so clear about the situation. Once again, I will mention the notorious promiscuous spending of money and so on. You turn to some times in your government when you've obviously seen the Treasury like this. Unfortunately, the debate will not develop in this way, we will not fall to your level, because I think the proposed accounts and estimates of the Ministry of Finance to the current situation are the most up-to-date and deserve our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u156	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u157	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, Dear Ministers! We need to make some clarity in all these accounts that have been said to make it clear to colleagues who are not economists and Bulgarian citizens who are looking at us. I don't know anymore for the third, fourth time I turn to Bulgarian citizens, I think I will have to pay Royalty to Mrs. Ninova because it is her patent....................................................... the Bulgarian citizens................................................................................................. [[Radio.]] Let's lighten up a little bit. [[Heckling]] Well, we'll get up, we'll get up. Outside the political lacrosse that we heard here, let's see what we're talking about. It is that the government, with the submitted draft for a change of state budget, wants a few simple things. No $10 billion worth of spending in one bag and so on. It's about the government wanting 3.5 billion to have a debt limit to serve as a buffer if necessary. I expect the government to explain, in the face of Minister Goranov, why he wants to have this opportunity now, as Mr. Gechev said, when he can come again when he has to ask for it. I suspect the financial conditions are better now. I suspect with the modest knowledge I have that it may be better to take on debt now, which has it as a buffer than to ask it to say in July, if the crisis continues by then, God forbid, and then the debt markets will be, to express ourselves in folk language, ole, mother, financial markets, debt markets, so if this is the explanation. I personally support asking for this option now, but it is not about any 10 billion! What else are we talking about? It is about the fact that the government provides, honourable colleagues, who are not economists, and honourable Bulgarian citizens, that the revenues will be less than 2.5 billion. The government foresees this, at least this is what it tells us with this proposal it is making today, as the crisis will cause a major part of the taxes to be less. In our opinion, and according to other economists, this forecast is optimistic. It's probably gonna be a harder hit. I hope this forecast of yours comes true. With such a prognosis, things would somehow be quick to repair if it came true. What else does the government tell us about this project? It tells us that it will increase the transfer to state social security by 1 billion. 400,000. lv. Income or expense? [[Definitions between the MP and Minister Vladislav Goranov.]] Okay, $1 billion. 400,000. BGN, as the cost will be of the same value. I only meant billion to the Unemployment Fund, but if we have to include the other one, we'll include it. Whether companies will benefit from the proposed option 60/40 or send workers to the market to register as unemployed in the social sphere they will decide. Whether this measure works or not, we'll see. It might not work. At this point, the requests from the business side are that it won't work. But anyway, the money in the fund will be paid back to the people, whether through the companies such as 60/40 or as compensation for the unemployed registered new unemployed, anyway they will reach the people. If they get to the people registered as unemployed, it would mean that a large part of the business either can't take on the other 40% plus the insurance he has to make or doesn't want to be empathetic. I'm not saying the whole business won't, and I'm not saying the whole business won't. You understand me, don't you? One part will want to be empathetic and will do it, another part will be empathetic, but it won't, the third part just won't. However, this measure is the measure at issue anyway. Let's see how it works. What else does the government have to say with this budget amendment? He's telling us he's going to capitalize the Bulgarian Development Bank, not to mistake 700 million, is that it? Yeah, I'm not in the habit of messing with data, but I was wrong today. Nowhere is it said that this money is for lending, directly from the Bulgarian Development Bank, quite the opposite. But that's what we heard from that tribune. I even went to my colleague Stoyanova at one point to ask if I was mistaken. Here colleagues before me, serious economists, talk about some selective lending, which business they'll go to and so on and so forth. Turns out that's not true. It's really about guarantees that the BBI will issue to commercial banks. Commercial banks will decide which business to support, loans, to whom to make corresponding new credit repayment plans, i.e. to give them relief, even the popular word credit vacation and so on and so forth. However, no one here has mentioned perhaps because of a misunderstanding that if this 500 million. BBI guarantees are effectively used, they have a multiplier effect. The loans that...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u158	How do they multiply?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u159	Well, we're not in class right now, we're in class, we're in class, and I'm uncomfortable with a professor giving lectures on how to multiply the effect of credit from the Development Bank to commercial banks, right? If any of my colleagues, who are not economists, want me to explain it to him, but you of all people, Professor, how? Maybe the minister will do that, he can afford it as a minister. I can't as a colleague. But I know how. That's what I want to tell you, I know how. I know how the mechanism works! Indeed, the big question here is this: it is clear what this is about, and the speculations that are being made, which I have called political lattes, are admissible. From this tribune very often and this is done, although in times of crisis earning electoral dividends is not very moral, but it doesn't matter. The issue here is a different one. It is at the heart of everything, and on this issue we need to debate seriously. Are these measures sufficient? How are these measures extrapolated over time? If these measures are only the beginning, if these measures represent the government's intention, until the picture of those affected is clarified at least, the picture of the time frame in which the state of emergency will act and then further measures are taken on the basis of more accurate data, which have an exact target of which people are affected and what can help them which social groups, not all. Here the favourite topic of some colleagues is handing out money per head, per piece, universally so. We are for the DPS to have such measures, for the affected groups to be effectively assisted when it becomes clear. There is no way to make this clear the first month and by quoting European practices, let us say that they are also extrapolated over time. For example, Germany announced a large package of twenty billion and said it was support for business and people for the next four years to deal with the crisis. She didn't say starting tomorrow, she said, "That's for four years." Since we also read European programmes and what European governments do from this point of view, we in the DPS support this approach as cautious in the first 15 days after the start of the crisis to make certain measures. For example: the first measure to the business to provide liquidity to companies with several things. That's how it's provided through credit. This will be provided by the commercial banks because their regulatory requirements they have will not act, at least so decided the ECB and I hope that the BNB will give them this opportunity, even I think it has already happened. The second option is by delaying by the end of June the submission of the company tax declarations there they can record zero contributions so that they can leave some available income that they have left from the good work so far. The third option, of course, is 60/40 if they decide to use it to keep their workers. But, again, these steps would be justified if they were the beginning to clarify the real situation, to clarify the affected sectors, to clarify the criteria on which we would be able to do so. Here I stop with the analysis and address the government, I address, of course, my colleagues and business: our most important task in terms of business is to target the measures so as to preserve the potential for growth of the Bulgarian economy. If we now direct the measures to the affected companies at all, we won't do anything. All analysts in Europe say the most important thing is to preserve the potential for growth. That economists know what it means! This means that when the crisis is over, the factors that determine growth can be instantly driven, the sectors that ensure growth do not lose their potential, the labour market will not lose what has been achieved so far. Therefore, these steps must be taken very carefully. For this reason, the Parliamentary Group of the European Parliament will support this budget amendment, although by definition the opposition does not support either the budget or any of the amendments. Given that the situation is not ordinary, but is extraordinaires, we will support, and especially because of the cautious, conservative approach, because we are waiting for a month, two to determine which sectors are the most deprived, which are the most deprived social groups and to be adequately supported, which is a request from us, Mr Minister, that we will very actively participate and expect from you your next steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u160	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. A line? In a moment, let us complete the procedure and give you the floor, Mr. Gechev. Mrs. Stoyanova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u161	Mr. Tsonev, I'm going to make you a very short line. I just want to stop at three points. You mentioned measure 60/40 and skepticism about whether it would work. I must say that in just two days I would say, even less than two days, there is already a request of 228 companies to use this measure. [[Noise and lines.]] We're talking about companies! So...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u162	Please don't replicate from the room!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u163	...there is really hope that the measure will work and it is aimed, on the one hand, at the business, to support it to keep the employment.. the workers he has been looking for, trained, the specialists he needs and, on the other hand, to stay at work and receive support at the same time. My second line is aimed at what you explained about the Bulgarian Development Bank. The Bulgarian Development Bank guarantee, which it will be authorised to give to commercial banks of 500 million. BGN is primarily aimed at providing liquidity to the companies for new loans so that they can meet the challenge. The readings show that it will mobilise 2 billion. 400 million. Actually, it's a resource. You neglected to say 200 million, which the Development Bank will also provide as a guarantee to commercial banks, but this guarantee is aimed at the interest-free loans of individuals directly to individuals. In this case, those who are on unpaid leave, those who are self-insuring persons and others. And I wish, you asked one question, Mr. Tsonev, why does the Minister of Finance today want additional liquidity outside this...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u164	Mr. Tsonev, listen to the line!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u165	...which he predicted in the budget as a negative balance, namely 3.6 million. I suppose the Minister will answer that question, but I think I have another answer. Well, he wants it today so that 3.6 billion can do it. to be used by BSP between first and second reading and to sign those measures, Mr. Tsonev, who failed to be adopted as Budget 2020 and to distribute them today in that way...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u166	The weather, Mrs. Stoyanova!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u167	...by which they usually give out funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u168	Second line? I can't see. A hole? You won't use it, Mr. Tsonev. There was a personal explanation for Mr. Gechev and then Mr. Lambev for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u169	Thank you. I will take advantage of the personal explanation, Mr. Tsonev and honourable colleagues, as this personal explanation will benefit the Bulgarian viewers. First, is it possible, as you claim, that none of you have ever explained 500 million to lead to a bank multiplier of 2 billion and 400 or 3 billion and 200? Maybe if it's $2 billion and $500, I can explain personally how it can happen, because that's my job. It is scary if so, as this would mean that it covers 20% of the credit guarantee. That is, by giving one bank to facilitate, 500 million, it, in order to give 2 billion and 500 million, has to cover only 20% and the other 80% to cover which one the borrower. Well, say those things, you'll give the business 20% guarantee! If you, like all countries in the European Union, give him a guarantee in most of the 100%, then there is no way that five levs will become five hundred, dear friends! Five leva from the left pocket is five leva in the right pocket.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u170	The personal explanation, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u171	If you give 80 percent bail, I explain...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u172	Get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u173	...then there'll be a little more than 500 million. lv. Don't fool the Bulgarian borrowers. This is studied in economic technicians and in the first year of higher education institutions. Secondly, what you were saying is insulting political alabalistics. In the Law on the State of Emergency, § 17, p. 2 in the Transitional and Final Provisions, writes: The Council of Ministers approves a state subsidy in this crisis for the Bulgarian people of 15 million. lv. about the Bulgarian Orthodoxy and the Muslim priests, right? Well, if this isn't a full support deal, tell him. Have a nice day. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u174	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Mr. Lambev, come in for a statement. Personal explanation please, Mr. Tsonev. [[Noise and lines.]] Procedure in the manner of conduct, because you can't have a personal explanation. Explain yourself to me personally.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u175	I'll be very brief, Madam President. Where Mr. Gechev spoke about faith, you should have stopped him because none of the Bulgarian citizens present expect him to be a believer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u176	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Mr. Lambev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u177	Madam President, honourable colleagues, Mr Minister! At the end of the debate, I would like to make several principled plays that are important to all of us today, who will take this decision, of course, for you as a minister, and for the Council of Ministers, and they are related rather to the need for the forthcoming decision, which, in the future, we will continue to make, to increase the public spending that we need to do to deal with this economic crisis, which has a character and a social crisis. More importantly, as a legislative body, we all need to bear in mind the strict control and full accountability that must be monitored in the spending of these public funds, as this is also the main commitment of the legislative body that is embedded in our constitutional obligations - to monitor the spending of public funds, and in the context of declining revenues and in the context of a future deficit that will be long-term, in the treasury. That is why it is extremely important at this time, as a fundamental sign of democracy and of responsibility, that we have strict control over the spending of these funds. Moreover, which is beyond our powers, but is an appeal by me to the Minister for Efficiency of every lev public spending, so that we can overcome this crisis, which will affect not only the Bulgarian companies, but also every Bulgarian citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u178	Thank you, dear Mr. Lambev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u179	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The debate on the budget or its change is always loaded with a lot of political charge. What prompted me to propose budget changes is linked to the initial decisions, most of which have already been taken. The increase in transfers to state social security is undoubtedly linked to the need for an initial guarantee of the additional capacity of the Fund "Unemployment" to take one of its impropriety inherent measures, for which it was created, the payment of unemployment benefits and, the second with which we loaded it, to help those businesses that see perspective and want to participate with their own resources, to keep employment. That's why it seemed relatively simple today's debate. What are we doing in the budget? We increase the cost of the fund "Unemployment" and make a timid forecast "I hope it is realistic, what we will lose because of the restrictions in business turnover as revenue for the budget. Probably a variety of different and diverse measures can be proposed. Since you are not of the opinion that governments exchange information and know what measures they are taking, you do not think that we do not observe the countries of our rug with what opportunities they have and what tools to offer especially in a situation where we know only the beginning of the crisis. I do not want to quote you, you have phones, you can read how many more people are affected by the infection and how many more people we have died, not only in Bulgaria, but also in the European Union? In this sense, I rely on your support that these are the first measures to answer some of the questions asked and implement by changing the budget the initial measures proposed by the government may not be perfect, time will show. My role as a member of the government and as a finance minister remains, however, only one to ensure that no matter how long this crisis lasts, the state can continue to function. We're on a currency board, we can't rely on devaluation. You give me an example of Romania, and before the crisis they had a 7% deficit. What about them tomorrow, if they don't find something to finance the costs they've calculated, do you know what their only alternative scenario is? Yeah, he's not going through their Treasury, he's going through their central bank. Do you want this? I don't want it. My main task is at the first moment of the crisis to ensure that the state has sufficient liquidity as necessary. I did this with your help and with 161 votes for the Parliament at the beginning of 2015. I propose such a strategy. It is not intended to spend any lev without control of the parliament. However, if, colleagues, tomorrow we lightly melt our reserves and have no guarantee, we have no guarantee that the day after tomorrow we will be able to recover them quickly, what is the alternative? I won't! And the IMF may not be an alternative. And the IMF may not be an alternative! Therefore, please support this strategy, it is not self-sustaining. When we have enough liquidity in the fiscal reserve, and taking debt at the moment is one of the few options for implementing fiscal buffers in terms of liquidity, together with you we can make any decisions. If we don't have similar liquidity buffers in the country's accounts at BNB, we can't make any decisions. And I will return to the years when a leader of the party you inherited said: "How will you make decisions when you have no money? " - How will you make decisions? You can't make a decision without money! Come on, colleagues, give me the opportunity on behalf of the government to have your permission to fill the country with money if the market allows me, at the right time, then you will decide how to spend. Today we make a decision for a billion and 70 million. One billion in support of the Fund - Unemployment, 70 million for potential additional costs related to the financing of interest costs if they increase. Nothing else today we offer more or less! Seconds for the Development Bank. Of the measures we provide for an increase in the capital of the Development Bank, no instrument is in the discretion of the management of the Development Bank in the sense of how the portfolio guarantees, which are from the Bulgarian Development Bank to the commercial banks, will be in the discretion of the commercial banks, which best know their clients. The package is so developed that in measures up to a million decisions will be offered by commercial banks, without assessment of the Bank for Development between a million and two, and two is the upper limit of such a guarantee, two million because we aim at the average business on our scale, here we are not talking about multimillion companies or companies with exposures of tens of millions. By the way, if we see such a critically important business, which defines our economy, we will also look at it, because such solutions could also be imposed there. Unfortunately, we don't have "Lufthanza," unfortunately, we don't have "British Petroleum," but if we find such companies in the structure of our economy, we'll look at them as well. But the Bulgarian Development Bank has probably accumulated over the years certain suspicions as to whether it has directed its mandate only to small and medium-sized businesses. I think that the instruments we are proposing right now will also dispel at least the suspicion that these resources are currently selective, and that they are targeted at specific companies. They will be distributed through commercial banks and will receive no lev transfer from the Bulgarian Development Bank to a specific borrower. A few words for the multiplier. Under no circumstances do I underestimate any participant in today's debate, but Regulation No 575 on macro-pridential supervision of financial institutions, which is several hundred pages and the International Accounting Standard, is a very specific matter. In some simple way I can explain what the Bulgarian Development Bank will do and will receive the multiplier effect we are talking about. It will ensure, through portfolio guarantees, that part of the deteriorated credit, which, following the Regulation and the Standard, will negatively affect the capital of commercial banks. It's spread over a lot of loans for the period we initially expect as a shock, two and a half billion multiplier is even too low. The potential multiplier effect could be tens of billions.. depends on the extent and rate of deterioration of the portfolios of individual commercial banks. What you did not notice, by the way, in the Law, or at least because of the coincidence of the numbers, no one put it to debate, but between the first and second votes we will be able to build it up to the Bulgarian Development Bank is given another 700 million, only now as a trust by the sovereign, a guarantee by the state for another 700 million for measures that the Bulgarian Development Bank, under the Bulgarian Development Bank Act, can be made as a design and instrument for further support of the financial-credit system. Today, the European Banking Authority here will complement Mr. Tsonev who, in his supervisory advisory part, consists of representatives of all the Member States of the European Union, came up with a common position in a period of crisis, the ones who have been proven to be affected by the coronavirus, and not those who have gone bankrupt yesterday, the rascals from yesterday will not be able to receive the same treatment. Those who have actually been correct to their banks, those who are really suffering only from the problems of the coronavirus, will be able and we expect within a few days the Bulgarian banking community to adapt the decisions of the European Banking Authority with regard to the application of the rules for the deferral of credit obligations, which will help even without the participation of the Bulgarian Development Bank, which will be an effect to pass in the next few months during the initial shock of the crisis. My strategy, when something I don't know, is to prepare for a longer horizon of problems. But for a country that is in a monetary council and which makes fragile and insecure steps, as it turned out that there is no consensus on whether we should participate in the Eurozone, or at least there is no single consensus, for a state in a monetary council, the most important thing is that the government has liquidity. Because if one day it is questioned whether the government has the opportunity to serve cashovo its obligations, which are described in the annual Budget Act, then, colleagues, I have no reasonable answer. I do not want to quote members of the Bankruptcy Act, which have recently become a matter of debate and in an extremely incorrect way. I want to assure you that if you allow us to assume debt up to this amount, every lev of this debt will fall into the Bulgarian National Bank and will be used only to finance the expenses of the Bulgarian budget. Every lev spent on the Bulgarian budget goes either to the employees employed by the state or to the socially weak, or to those who are on the pension system, or to the Bulgarian companies from which the Bulgarian state orders separate services. That is, no lev from the Bulgarian budget is self-target, and my main goal is that the Bulgarian budget should be able to finance the state every day until the end of this crisis and I will not spare efforts to convince you that this is right. As you supported me in early 2015. The sound part of the Chamber, although there is hardly any other part of the Chamber, I hope that you will approve such a strategy, the State must have sufficient liquidity. On a currency board, we have no other scenario.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u180	Thank you, dear Minister. Colleagues, we move to the fourth item of today's agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR ENERGY. The report will introduce us to Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u181	Madam President, dear ministers! I present to you: ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Energy Act, No054-01-27, submitted on 31 March 2020 by Valentin Alexiev Nikolov. At its meeting held on 3 April 2020, the Energy Committee examined and voted on the bill referred to above. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Energy Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova Minister; by the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory Mr. Ivanov People's representative Valentin Nikolov, importer of the Bill, presented in depth the reasons that led to the need to amend the Energy Act. The aim is to regulate a mechanism for the recovery of amounts under contracts concluded between the public supplier Bulgargaz and its customers in relation to the achieved re-negotiation of the natural gas prices between Gazprom Export and Bulgargaz. In order to achieve a positive impact on the natural gas consumers in the Republic of Bulgaria. On 2 March 2020, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 January 2015 to 25 January 2020 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 March 2020 to 25 March 2020 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 March 2020 to 25 March 2020 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 March 2020. "Bulgargaz" EAD concluded with OOO "Gazprom Export" The negotiations between the parties took place in strict application of the mechanism for revising the supply price and, accordingly, arrangements were reached for both a new way of pricing in the future and for the recovery of amounts by OOO "Gazprom Export" to the "Bulgargaz" EAD for the past period of the negotiations. The bill regulates the power of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory to validate the prices of natural gas monthly from the first day of the month in accordance with the agreement reached between OOO In accordance with the agreement reached, it is envisaged that the public supplier of natural gas should recover amounts under contracts for the supply of natural gas concluded with final suppliers of natural gas and customers connected to the transmission network, including persons to whom a licence for the production and transfer of heat has been issued for the period from 5 August 2019 to 31 December 2019; final suppliers of natural gas and persons to whom a licence for the production and transfer of heat for the period from 1 January 2020 to 31 March 2020. To that end, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission should adopt the relevant decisions to allow for the calculation of the amounts that the public natural gas supplier, the final suppliers and the persons to whom a license for the production and transfer of heat has been granted should refund to their customers. It is envisaged that the reimbursement of the amounts from the public supplier should be made on the basis of a signed agreement with its customers and that the period within which this should take place is regulated. A deadline has also been set for the recovery of the amounts. In the subsequent discussion took the MPs from the BSP parliamentary group who disagreed with the draft bill and said they would not support it. From the parliamentary group of "United Patriarchs" and "The Movement for Rights and Freedoms" the MPs expressed support for the proposed changes. Following the end of the discussion and on the basis of the vote held, the Energy Committee with 12 votes for the Energy Act, No054-01-27, submitted by Valentin Aleksiev Nikolov on 31 March 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u182	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for an importer's opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u183	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! In short, I would like to say what this bill is about. We know that the Bill was made quickly.. There was little time for public discussion. It was made by a working group to the Minister of Energy. I have also been there, not as a representative of a parliamentary group or something else, but as a person who will bear the responsibility for what the working group has considered to submit. I am also the only importer for the reason that this is a very complex bill from the point of view of public relations, from the point of view of interests, from the point of view that everyone wants in some way the resource that is formed by the re-negotiation of Bulgargas with Gazprom... There will be enough conflict. For this reason, I have attended all the working groups, I have adopted this bill as only possible to balance the interests and as quickly as possible to return the money to both the end users and the companies they have taken from the public supplier at a time of crisis, so that this money can serve all consumers and companies in the best way during the crisis. What's the law treating? This is not an objective or in any way the PR of the ruling parties, it is the desire of Bulgargaz, stated in order not to transfer the effects of the gas case to Gazprom Export, by the European Commission, but to transfer them in the same way to Bulgargaz as a public supplier and monopoly to a certain point, with a dominant position at the next point and to obtain the same criminal procedure to that company. For this reason, he volunteered to return to his clients precisely the money that was taken over for the period from 5 August last year to 31 March this year. This, of course, caused a lot of questions, caused a lot of conflicts, caused a lot of problems. Even before there were any text bills, the corresponding signals to the European Commission were raining. Today, we even have a letter from the Directorate-General of the European Commission, which expresses some greetings, but also some concerns from the point of view of whether we are distorting competition with decisions that we can take. I can clearly say that it is in this bill that we look at the relationships of the public supplier Bulgargaz, with its clients, and not Bulgargaz in its form as a trading company, which provides the exchange in two forms, possibly in contracts with customers, companies and have negotiated at freely agreed prices in how to make transactions for the free market. In fact, we allow the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory as a regulator to rule on the basis of Bulgargaz's demands to give a price to the quantities that Bulgargaz has imported into Bulgaria in the period 5 August 31 August 2019, then September, November last year, January, February and March this year, respectively, and on the basis of these requests the Commission to rule on the different price aspects that give rise precisely to price changes, to be able to give remedial prices. The Commission's previous decisions remain also operational and they are as a base price on the basis of which the public supplier will form the differences for the compensation of its customers. These compensations will be granted to absolutely all companies that have taken from the public supplier by 31 December 2019 and all other regulated entities that are customers of Bulgargaz by 31 March 2020, bearing in mind for the beginning of 5 August 2019, and therefore they will compensate their customers on the basis of the effect that the regulator will, of course, consider to the final customers of both heat companies and high-efficiency production and gas distribution companies. That is, through this law, we aim as quickly as possible, precisely in times of crisis, the money that is already in the accounts of Bulgargaz, I think they entered on 31 March 2020, as quickly as possible to go to the clients of Bulgargaz and, respectively, to the users of various services on the regulated market. That and that alone is what is currently dealing with this law. I think this is the only way, thinking about it with lawyers from different departments, I thought about it with experts in which we can meet the public expectations that this money will be returned, that is, compensated for the respective customers. Any other case, or otherwise, placed for compensation, raises thousands of other questions and creates many obstacles that I would not like to develop here. I believe that in the case of a return of money rather than putting aside in certain funds or in any other way the impact of the market or developing a transmission network, when putting this case, in my opinion, this is the only structure. Of course, between first and second readings, if there's anything to iron out, yes, but that's the way I see it. I urge you to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u184	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. We are now moving on to the debate. I'm opening the debate. Here you are, Mr. Ermenkov. You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u185	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to start by saying that the Bulgarian Socialist Party and the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party (BSP) have always been responsible for the problems related to energy. You are all witnesses that there have also been cases where we initiated decisions that were important for Bulgarian energy, for its existence. We have never tried to earn a political dividend from government difficulties in one area or another in the field of energy, because we have been guided by the rule that energy does not have a color I would like to stress that we, as a parliamentary group, are for the money that has been taken over by these consumers to be returned to them, we are for this money to reach that initial source, the pocket of every Bulgarian who has paid electricity that has paid heat. There are other things that are paid at the higher price of gas, but let's stop for clarity on the price of electricity and the price of gas. We would do everything possible for this money to really reach people, but, unfortunately, this bill, which is being proposed to us to amend and supplement the Energy Act, does not solve this problem, does not solve the problem of returning citizens. I'll be reading three opinions in a moment. I will not read the opinion of the Association of Organizations of the Bulgarian Employers. They have a defender, Boyko Borisov will protect them if necessary by interfering in the work of the parliament, as usual legislative changes are made by him through MPs. In fact, the opinion of employers is negative. I will not read to you the opinion of Bulgargas, where it says that the Law we offer turns on additional problems that do not know how to be solved, because they are an interested person who has money to return and it is not known exactly how to bind his security so that he can return the money without being subjected to the hits of the Law. Later, I will read you the opinion of several civil society organizations what they write about this bill users, accountants and so on and so forth. I will also read you the opinion of the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria. I would just like to start by saying that this bill has, in principle, started and was put into parliament viciously, on the fast track, again through the people's representative, and not in the way that such a bill should be made, which regulates public relations concerning millions this time, not tens, not hundreds of thousands of Bulgarians, but millions of Bulgarians, i.e. each of us, because each of us is using gas, was via steam, or directly, or through electricity produced by it. In our view, this bill had to be drawn up by the Ministry of Energy and to go all the way that is needed for a bill in public discussion so that all these opinions that were given can be taken into account and the golden section found. Yes, there will be no solutions that satisfy everyone in this case, because it is easy to make money from everyone...................... that it is very difficult to pay them back the money taken, but at least it could have been agreed, not such contradictions that occur in the system and not such doubts about how they will return. Moreover, this bill is not accompanied by an impact assessment. We are currently discussing a bill on the return of money to people, but in the Bill and in the reasons nowhere is there exactly how much money we have to pay back, nor is there a record of how many users and what kind of consumers they will be as numbers eventually to return that money to them. I do not want to say that the deadlines are also somewhat extended, i.e. the Bill lacks those attributes with which Bulgarian citizens will be relieved that the money that Bulgargas owes them is just as much money and will reach them. Once again, I say we're about to get the money back. If this bill had entered in a normal way, we would have been involved in his discussion, we would have been looking for some solutions in which to convince people that this is the way to get the money to them. Unfortunately, however, with the deadlines with which the Bill is moving, this cannot be done. Moreover, I see that a meeting of the Energy Commission is already scheduled for Sunday at 11:00 to discuss the Draft at second reading. I would like to say to you that the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria is seriously referring to the bills and we believe that within this very short period of time there is no way to make meaningful proposals between first and second readings to improve a bill. We were very hoping that this would not happen and at least at second reading to be in such a hurry with the adoption of the Bill. I promised to read you two opinions. The opinion of the CST, what they say: The proposals for a change of the Law concern a specific case and do not attempt to fully regulate the issue of settlement of supply chain relationships in the case of differences in regulatoryly verified prices and real market prices. Not all groups of end-users are covered here is written as drivers of gas, which creates conditions for discriminatoryly treated and accordingly attacking the proposals. The potential reverse change of components of the price of electricity, as for example in para. 3 and 4 can lead to an avalanche of administrative problems, which will make the measure of returning overpaid amounts meaningless. I read you the opinion of the CST, I do not read you the opinion of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. I continue: "No penalties are provided for for failure to comply with the obligations foreseen by final suppliers, and no control of the implementation of the planned recovery actions by final customers has been applied. Further clarification is needed in cases where heat and electricity prices may need to be changed. And they complete their opinion: "Important of the proposals for replacing the Energy Act to present an impact analysis, including tracking its impact along the supply chain. " - Something I said to you at the outset that was missing. Another opinion, the opinion of civil organisations on the proposals on the basis of art. 45 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. I am not going to read all of it, it ends: In relation to the reasons outlined, we propose to stop immediately and postpone the discussion of the draft by the National Assembly within a reasonable time. During this time, to organise discussions in the competent committees of the National Assembly on all proposals made by stakeholders. On the basis of art. 45 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria we insist that the participation of our representatives be unconditionally ensured. As you can see, consumers, those we care about getting their money back, are also asking that we take our time adopting this law. I hope you'll listen to what we're offering you. I say again that we are about the money being returned, but we want it to be returned in a way that satisfies end-users and not the legislator who is looking for some easier solutions, no matter how much we claim there are no other solutions. I will finish my speech with the letter that the Deputy Director General of the Directorate-General of the European Commission Mr. Klaus-Dieter Borhardt writes a sentence I will only read to you from him, translate him Adhok and I hope I will do nothing wrong: I strongly recommend that you analyze different from these options how the reduction of the price can be realised in favor of the Bulgarian consumers. As you can see, no opinion, in addition to the importers, is about the adoption of the Law immediately, quickly and in the way it has been proposed to us. I will conclude once again by saying that we are about to return the money to the people, we will work in this benefit and we will start working now so that we can, when after two months the bankruptcy of these proposals is proven, we are ready with some normal proposals so that the money can reach people and not get lost somewhere along the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u186	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? Mr. Nikolov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u187	Mr. Ermenkov, you're thinking absolutely correctly, and I'm grateful for that. It is really very fast, but it was actually a long time ago presented the case that money should be returned is not a short time. There was a question of how this could happen, that is, it is not just thought of today for tomorrow, be assured of that. But otherwise you're right that this is not the way to introduce a bill, categorically. I agree with you, too. However, we are in an insane situation, we cannot make public discussions as we normally do. Our committee doesn't usually rush so much Adhok and introduce such bills. There is usually one or two public discussions, but we are not in this situation and there is no way we can do that. You see in the Energy Commission, when we discussed this law, were Ivan Ivanov alone, without lawyers, without other commissioners, Minister Petkova, alone, without experts from the Ministry of Energy, and therefore the company that should return the money to hear his opinion, meaning there is no way to make public discussion in this emergency situation. Also, when there is an order of the President that outsiders cannot enter the National Assembly building because of the fact that a nest of disease can be obtained. On the other hand, you have read opinions. All the views are really dissatisfied people that they will not get back the money from the free market that has been realised, or by the gas Release program, we are talking about employers, but I would like to say that the control is carried out by the licensing activities of the KEWRC. It will, in fact, monitor the persons who have a licence accordingly. They have written ways of controlling what we will adopt as a law. This law does not close the windows of new bills, which, for example, you can give, and consider how to compensate the taxi drivers and others respectively, of course, that it does not close it. We expect you to do that. Of course, not between first and second readings, but as one separate PID we will support it. You know we've supported other good decisions of yours, we've stood by them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u188	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. A line? Here you go, Mr. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u189	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Mr. Minister, Dear colleagues! Mr. Ermenkov, there was a really good debate today during the Commission. I'd like to draw attention to a few things. One of the things is your claim that you don't know how much money is, you don't know who the people they're coming back to. As it became clear today, both from Bulgargas and the Ministry know how much money is, and they know who they will be returning to. What has impressed me in your speech is that, in general, all the speeches from your parliamentary group are: we agree, but we disagree. I would really like to ask you between first and second readings, as Mr. Nikolov said, to join because it is important that these types of laws be adopted unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u190	Thank you, Mr. Tanev. Third line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u191	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! I'm sorry, dear Minister, that I didn't address you last time. Mr. Nikolov, on the condition that we claim that a remote session of parliament can be held here, I do not see what prevents remote public discussions from being conducted, do we not? This is about the situation we're in right now. The other thing you say, yes, it must be nice to hurry to get the money back, but not to justify the Bulgarian saying: "The quick work is a shame for the master." Because, again, the idea of getting people's money back is wonderful, and we're keeping it going, but really being able to get that money to people, not having those worries. You are consumers, those who use heat and electricity, these organizations have asked not to rush the proposal for a law. Because among other things, the way this law is signed, earlier than the next two or three months, people will not see the money that is at the end, so let's talk about the state of emergency and the speed of returning the money actually seems to me not very adequate. Mr. Tanev, yes, they said today that it is clear what money is and who consumers are, but it is clear to the Minister and perhaps the KEWRC. Do you understand, is there somewhere inside that money written down, scheduled how many there are, how many should be and how many users will be back? He's not anywhere in any of the motives, much less that he doesn't belong in the law. I therefore say that an impact assessment where these works should have been recorded is mandatory in order to make an informed decision. We agree, but we disagree, as you say. We agree, but to make things happen, not formally adopt a bill to amend and supplement the Energy Act, which will ultimately not work.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u192	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. We continue with the speeches. Are there others? I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u193	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u194	Madam Minister, take the floor, then I'll give the floor for Mr. Nikolov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to thank you for today's discussion within the Energy Commission. This discussion has indeed been very helpful, we have been able to hear all about it, all against. What I would undoubtedly agree with Mr. Ermenkov is, yes, the bill for amending and supplementing the Energy Act happened very quickly, but we all know and Bulgarian society expects that the speed with which the funds that have been overpaid will be adequate to their expectations. For this reason, the Ministry of Energy has established such a working group, including a very wide range of experts, so that we can find the really best option and propose such a bill to amend and supplement the Energy Act to ensure, on the one hand, compliance with the European Commission's decision on anti-monopoly, on the other hand, to ensure compliance with European rules in the field of competition. Mr. Nikolov explained how and in what mode it was working. Within this working group, we have heard the comments of all interested parties. Believe me, it was not easy to come up with some final version of a bill to amend and supplement the Energy Act, because the interests and positions were many and were different, but our task was to find really the most accurate and fair solution. Let us begin, first, from the European Commission's decision, so that we can explain some of the main topics that have been the subject of discussion today. First of all, the European Commission in its decision on the anti-monopoly case against Gazprom and the Agreement, which the European Commission achieved with Gazprom, is very clearly stated what the powers of eight Member States of the European Union are, including Bulgaria in terms of the natural gas prices Bulgaria receives from its counterparty and partner Gazprom. The European Commission in its decision says and Gazprom agrees and assumes such a legally binding commitment that any country receiving its natural gas supplies from Gazprom has the right to seek re-negotiation of pricing conditions if the price at which it receives natural gas is higher than the market price. In this regard, each country had the commitment to monitor and analyse this process. The colleagues from Bulgargaz did analyses for months and on 5 August 2019 deposited their letter to Gazprom that they want negotiations to be launched to renegotiate the formula for the calculation of the price and the pricing of natural gas for Bulgaria. In this regard, the European Commission has clearly indicated what is happening: the European Commission sets the order, determines the steps within which these negotiations are being held, and it is very clear there that the time limit for conducting these negotiations is limited and within that period, if the two parties have agreed on a certain price, then this price has retroactive effect from the date on which the letter requesting a re-negotiation of prices was deposited. In our case, this is the date 5 August 2019. In other words, this retroactivity, which we all had to comply with, is enshrined in the European Commission's decision, and this cannot be avoided. The complication with us and the greater specificity came from the fact that Bulgargas practically has two qualities in which it appears. One quality is a public supplier of natural gas, the other quality is a trader. Since 1 January 2020, amendments to the Energy Act have been made to the MPs and there are very clearly defined the categories of persons to whom Bulgargas sells natural gas at regulated prices, and this category of persons to whom Bulgargas is selling natural gas at freely agreed prices. At regulated prices from 1 January 2020, Bulgargas sells natural gas only to gas distribution companies and heating companies. This is the price determined by the KEWRC. To all other customers Bulgargas sells at freely agreed prices. Of course, all these circumstances had to be in line with the proposed bill amending and supplementing the Energy Act so that they complied with both the decision of the European Commission and our national legislation and European regulations. In this regard, the Bill states very clearly, first of all, on what basis is this Draft Law for amendment and supplement to the Energy Act and this is the decision of the European Commission. We are working within its parameters and we are not entitled to any free interpretations here, because the European Commission has clearly defined each step and we are obliged to follow it. After Bulgargas reached an agreement with Gazprom and negotiated the prices and, according to the Commission's decision, they entered into force on 5 August, we had to find the golden section, as Mr. Ermenkov said, so that we can bring this reduction into effect, and an hour rather to reach the Bulgarian consumers and the Bulgarian business. To this end, changes had to be made relating to the activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, because, again, I stress, this bill regulates and regulates the activities of Bulgargas only as a public supplier. As such a public supplier he has the commitment to provide for the Bulgarian society because this is how the Law defined it, to provide the best conditions. And when the public supplier has provided the best conditions, he must return what has been overrun as a result of the previous old price, he must return it to the public. This is the basic principle and these are respectively the main steps in the decision of the European Commission. So we had to find a way in which the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission would determine the difference between the price decisions that it has set a few months back, and this new price decision that should give us to indicate the difference that Bulgargas must deduct from the prices and respectively the consumption of its customers in two periods. The first period shall be until the end of 2019 of all users of households and businesses and from 1 January 2020 to 31 March 2020 of the persons defined in the Energy Act. The other very important changes are related to how these amendments, how this lower price to reach the Bulgarian consumer as quickly and fairly as possible. In this regard, the relevant provisions are clearly laid down, which provide clarity on how the heating companies, the gas distribution companies, will accordingly make this deduction, this reduction from the price of natural gas to their consumers and will in practice enable really fair prices to be obtained on the basis of the positive negotiations that we had with Gazprom. Apart from that, the Act also provides for the activities related to the Fund "Secure of the gas system" because you know that a part of the high-efficiency and cogeneration heat production companies produce electricity and they produce this electricity on the basis of natural gas, so this has led to the need to be reduced and reduced accordingly the amount of premiums that these producers used to recover to the fund and to enter into the Fund. So we had to find really very precise solutions in this direction, and I think that this bill has found the best and fairest solution. Surely this bill could have been much more perfect, but within this situation, in which the provisions were to be developed, believe me, I think that this is indeed a bill that balances the interests of all stakeholders and, most importantly, will allow for a fair distribution of this positive difference, which we have managed to rethink with Gazprom and it will soon reach the Bulgarian consumers and the Bulgarian business. As for Mr. Borhardt's letter, which came this morning, Mr. Ermenkov quoted a part of it, what I want to read to make it clear that the direction in which we work is the right direction is the following text. Mr. Borhardt, describing the actions we have taken, says: "Against this positive development, we are monitoring a draft of proposals for amendments to the Energy Act. Our understanding is that the draft changes aim to level the regulated price with a retroactive date compared to the reduced price of the supply contract up the chain. I mean, the direction in which we work, I still want to focus on this, is only on the activities of Bulgargas as a public supplier. The European Commission's expectations are that we, with this bill, have done just that and these are practically the facts. So if there are any proposals between first and second readings, and Mr. Nikolov, and the Ministry of Energy with his experts, and Bulgargas, of course, we are ready to discuss with you. My request and my call is simply to support this bill, because I think it is really important and we will confirm what we have always demonstrated in the field of energy here in the National Assembly, namely that when it comes to important bills concerning the Bulgarian society, we find the strength to find consensus on these important issues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u196	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Nikolov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u197	Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! I propose that you include in the extraordinary plenary agenda for Monday, 6 April 2020, another additional item in the order of the votes to include it, where you decide to vote on this procedural proposal of mine, namely the second vote on the bill amending and supplementing the Energy Act. Importer Valentin Nikolov on 31 March 2020 and I propose to be the last item in the Program of the meeting. I ask that the proposal be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u198	Got it, Mr. Nikolov. With that, we've finished the fourth point. Let's move on to the next point: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR MEASURES AND ACTIONS ON THE TIME OF THE EMERGENCY EXPLAINED BY DECISION OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION OF 13 MARCH 2020 Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs. You have the floor for presentation, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, No 054-01-28, submitted by Krasimir Georgiev Tsipov, Emil Marinov Hristov and Anna Vasileva Alexandrova on 2 April 2020. At its extraordinary meeting held on 3 April 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency Situation, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, No 054-01-28, submitted by Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov, Emil Marinov Hristov and Anna Vasileva Alexandrova on 2 April 2020. The meeting was attended by Mr. Danail Kirilov, Minister of Justice; Mr. Georgi Cholakov, Chairman of the Supreme Administrative Court; Mr. Lozan Panov, Chairman of the Supreme Court of Cassation; Mr. Svetlin Dimitrov from the American Chamber of Commerce in Bulgaria, and Mrs. Valya Gigova, Member of the Supreme Council of Law. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Krasimir Tzipov, who pointed out that regarding the extension of the state of emergency in the country a revision of provisions in the Law on Measures and Actions during the emergency situation was required, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, noting that the opinions and comments of the interested parties received in the National Assembly were taken into account after the entry into force of the Law. The bill aims to make it clear that state and local authorities, including institutions, do not stop their activities and continue to work under all legal requirements and in compliance with the anti-epidemic measures introduced. A legal opportunity shall be established for the authorities and institutions to organise their activities flexibly, including through remote work, so as not to impede the administrative service, the exercise of rights and the performance of the obligations of private entities. In order to prevent significant or difficult repairable, including irreparable, damage to the lives and health of people, it is proposed that the act by which the Minister of Health introduces temporary measures and restrictions in relation to the emergency situation be subject to prior implementation. It is proposed that the procedural time limits should be suspended only for the parties to judicial, arbitration and enforcement proceedings, with the exception of the time limits for proceedings referred to in a decision of the relevant College of the Supreme Judicial Council, promulgated in the Official Journal. It is explicitly envisaged that the time limits under the Public Procurement Act and the concession procedures, including under the European Structural and Investment Funds Financial Management Act, should not be suspended, and open proceedings and procedures must be completed, including before the court. Thus, it is intended to be possible to open new procedures in order not to prevent the conduct and award of public contracts, as well as concession procedures during the emergency situation. An opportunity shall be provided for persons who, for respectable reasons, cannot exercise rights or fulfil obligations to request an extension of the period from the competent authority by giving a legal definition of the concept of respectable reasons. In order to respect the principle of reciprocity and equality between parents, as well as to protect the interests of the child and to guarantee his or her rights of personal contact with each parent, it is intended not to stop the performance of an obligation to surrender a child and its subsequent return under the Civil Procedure Code. The Bill allows state and local authorities as well as other bodies, committees and others to hold meetings, including open court meetings and those of the Commission for Protection of Competition at a distance, subject to the legal requirements for quorum and personal voting, without violating the rights of interested parties. Taking into account the discussions in the public domain on the provision of art. 6 in the current version is proposed not to apply the contractual consequences of late payment of liabilities to private entities under credit contracts and other forms of financing (factoring, forfeiting and others) provided by banks and financial institutions under art. 3 of the Credit Institutions Act, including where the claims are acquired by other banks or financial institutions, and under lease contracts, and no early requirement, termination of a contract and seizure of property shall apply. An amendment to the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code is proposed, whereby the income threshold above which enforcement action can be taken shall be aligned with the provision of art. 446 para. 1 of the Civil Procedure Code. The change aims at guaranteeing a non-segregable income not less than the minimum wage to ensure a minimum standard of living for the debtor. The bill provides for persons holding senior public positions under the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, including under § 2 of the Additional Provisions of the same Law, to submit their annual declaration of assets and interests in 2020 within one month of the cancellation of the emergency situation, because the deadline for submitting the annual declaration is set in the Law and will likely expire during the emergency situation. In order for interested parties to have time to familiarize themselves with the changes that have taken place in order to exercise their rights or fulfil their obligations, the time limits which have been suspended under the previous version of art. 3, p. 2 or t. 3, continue to run as from the end of three days after the promulgation of the law in the Official Journal. Where, for objective reasons and in order to protect the interests of the persons, the time limits have not been suspended or art. 4 The actions carried out between 13 March 2020 and the entry into force of this law are proposed to retain their power. It is possible that wartime stocks may be released by a decision of the Council of Ministers or an authority empowered by it to implement by the State Agency................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ At the request of the Headquarters, the President of the State Agency (State Reserve and Wartime Stocks) is expected to be able to provide hospital household property or other property representing assets for reusable use for free of charge. The Minister of Justice pointed out that he supported the amendments to the Law and clarified that the Bill aims to reflect all the views of the interested parties and to seek a balance in relations. With regard to the time limits, he added that the proposal was a result of the will of the College of Judges to the Supreme Judicial Council, specifying that the Supreme Judicial Council had the opportunity to prioritize the proceedings and the time limits on which the courts would work. Mr. Kirilov also clarified that changes in art. 4 aim to provide legal opportunity for the parties to protect their interests. Mr. Panov pointed out that the legislation should be predictable and added that the proposal, which gives the relevant college powers to specify the time limits and procedures on which it will work, leads to ambiguity and unpredictability. As regards the conduct of distance meetings, he added that it should reflect the principles of directness and ensure the publicity of proceedings. Mr. Cholakov took the view that the texts that are being commented reflect the decisions of the judge's college and are in line with the Constitution. The decision will be published in the Official Journal, which will ensure its publicity. Mr. Magdalenchev pointed out that the proposed editorials will ensure the possibility of the court and administration to work in a state of emergency and in compliance with the health of citizens, magistrates and employees in the administration. Mr. Dimitrov added that the American Chamber of Commerce in Bulgaria supports the legislative initiative aimed at preserving the business climate in Bulgaria. Mrs. Gigova pointed out that the texts violate fundamental legal principles and noted that she objected to empowering the Supreme Judicial Council to settle within what time limits and proceedings the courts should operate. The discussion was attended by MPs Krum Zarkov, Philip Popov, Yavor Notev, Dimitar Lazarov and Krasimir Tsipov. Members of the National Assembly Dimitar Lazarov and Krasimir Tsipov expressed their support for the bill, uniting themselves around the opinion that the bill is adopted in an emergency situation and it aims to preserve people's lives and health. They expressed the need to refine certain provisions between first and second votes. People's representatives Krum Zarkov and Filip Popov said that from the BSP for Bulgaria....they will not support the bill and added that the changes concerning the Public Procurement Act and the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code are positive, but in the remaining part the problems are deepening and the public is not allowed to face the challenges related to the state of emergency. Mr. Notev pointed out that the submitted project is the result of in-depth work, and added that the issue of the conflict with constitutional principles and the role of the three authorities is a discussion. As a result of the discussion held by the Committee on Legal Affairs with 13 votes in favour and 7 votes in abstention, he proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, No 054-01-28, submitted by Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov, Emil Marinov Hristov and Anna Vasileva Alexandrova on 2 April 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u200	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. I'm opening the debate. Colleagues, you have a say in this.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u201	Krum Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u202	Here you go, Mr. Zarkov. Thank you, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u203	No, please, I'm waiting for him.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u204	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Mr. Letifov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today, the day, understandablely, was devoted to the state of emergency and the measures taken under it. By the way, it is worth recalling: what is the legal state of emergency? It is not giving extraordinary authority to anyone. It is an opportunity for the National Assembly to limit certain rights and freedoms assigned to citizens under the Constitution by law. It is this law, which we will now consider its amendment, that is the density of the state of emergency. What was he supposed to do? He had to do, figuratively speaking, three things or three most important things: establish, at the legal level, restrictive measures on citizens' rights measures. Moreover, he had to ensure that those who, because of these measures, would not be able to go out of their homes and work normally would not be punished for this by expiry of a period which gives them rights or repayments of their rights while they were imprisoned in their home. And thirdly, he had to outline the compensatory measures that would allow citizens to survive not only physically imprisoned at home, but also economically, once this crisis, hopefully, is over as quickly as possible. Unfortunately, last week we passed a law that didn't do either of those three things. He gave up the establishment of a legal level of restrictive measures and left them in the hands of the Minister of Health. Thus, according to us, the condition and the requirement of art. 57, para. 3 of the Bulgarian Constitution. It also created problems that with orders that changed and canceled in a few hours, creating additional tensions in our already very tense society. He failed to guarantee people's rights as well, since he signed texts on the terms of time the most important in this aspect, which were not precise enough and immediately created concerns, different interpretations and reactions that flooded Parliament's Legal Commission. Finally, there was very little in it as compensatory measures other than the alleged measure 60/40. The explanation was that this would be done by updating the budget. This budget update we were looking at just now, and there's not much about it either. For these reasons, we did not back this law at the time, although we supported the state of emergency before that. We knew there'd be repairs on it very quickly. Unfortunately, this was laid down in its very conception, and we hoped that with these amendments at least some of the weaknesses of the original project would be corrected. Nothing like that! Even where we supported you, protecting people by limiting certain deadlines, there is a total retreat today. I'll give you two examples. Paragraph 3 shall change art. 4. Art. 4 was that article which extended the time limits by one month after the emergency situation was lifted. Any time limits set by law that expire during the emergency situation and are linked to the exercise of rights or the performance of obligations of private entities have been extended by that law by one month. Now something radically different is being offered. These deadlines will only be extended if the administrative authority decides! The citizen, who, thanks to the Law of last week, could have been at least calm about this, if at this moment can talk about calmness, will now have to pray to the administration so that it can extend the corresponding deadline. In which cases will the administration extend the deadline according to our proposed law? Only when there are respectable reasons and they are explicitly defined in the law, namely mandatory isolation, quarantine, hospitalization in hospital hospitals, absence from the country during a state of emergency or other unforeseen circumstances for natural persons, tells us the Law. I ask myself, when the restaurant you work at is closed by the Minister's order and you have no money to pay your debt, to fulfill your obligation, is this a respectful reason for this law and will it be equally respectful for one administration or another? I also ask myself, when you are forced to apply for your job because there is no one to look after your children while the nursery, kindergartens and schools are closed, is that a respectable reason for this law? And if so, will each administration be equally respectful? The second example is that of changing art. 6. Article 6 actually gave the broadest protection in the envisaged and adopted by the National Assembly last week Law. According to him, until the emergency situation has been lifted, there are no consequences of the delay in payment of liabilities to private entities, including interest and penalties for delay, as well as non-cash consequences such as early dueness, termination of the contract or seizure of property. In other words, you should not have, by virtue of this article, and you would not have suffered any harmful consequences of the fact that, as a result of the emergency situation, you have delayed payment of certain obligations. Last week we offered you a draft decision in this direction regarding household accounts. You rejected it and some compensation was found in art. 6, which allows people to take a breath of air and not to feel pressured not only by the condition that they are closed, but also by the fact that they hang a variety of accounts. This is now proposed to apply only to credit agreements and other forms of funding provided by banks and financial institutions. Okay, but why just this? Why does someone to whom the state has said stay at home be responsible not guarantee their elementary right so that they do not turn off their electricity during that time? On what grounds is this abbreviation made? In fact, it was a really basic defense mechanism for people at that time. We cannot naturally underestimate the need for business and economics and think about them. But both business and economics, in fact the state, make sense only because of the people. They should be placed at the center of our work. This law and its change confirms the philosophy of the initially adopted Bill "Save yourselves individually, we will try to save the business." Which business has become clear with the previous debate. This bill gives perspective for a long state of emergency. We've been thinking about his deadlines for a while now, and I'm gonna get back to that. But keep in mind that measures that are rescue in two weeks can be devastating in four. This had to be clearly refined, and so we were worried about the automatic extension of the emergency situation from now on. 40 days ahead. The second vice of the original law was that he actually pushed the National Assembly towards abdication from its main function, namely to legislate. I already mentioned that I should have been in art. 2 of this law to define all the measures required on the recommendation of the headquarters and to establish them at the legal level. In the process of a rather chaotic debate and a whole new Law introduced between first and second readings, this dropped out and we actually delegated in some form, if not the rights, at least certainly the responsibility of the Minister of Health. Today, this trend is strengthened by a proposal according to which the Supreme Judicial Council is practically becoming a legislator, in violation, it seems to me to be a fundamental principle of the Bulgarian Constitution and of any rule of law that pleads for the rule of law, namely that of the separation of authorities. It is envisaged by its decisions that the Supreme Judicial Council will practically write, fill the norm of art. 3, which here remains an empty shell. They will determine the time limits in which cases to continue to run during the emergency situation, i.e. which cases will be dealt with in practice. We do not say that all cases should be treated equally, but if the legislator wanted to indicate which cases would be dealt with and which cases would be suspended, he should have done so in the Law rather than transferred them to the Supreme Judicial Council. Moreover, notice, not even the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council, but the two colleges, which in turn creates a risk of accepting conflicting decisions from them! What would be applicable if the D.A. decided one thing and the D.A. decided another? Such reference for practical reasons, precisely in order not to have to list specific proceedings here, does not contribute to the absolutely necessary stability and predictability of the legal norm. When I said "predictability and stability" note that many of the deadlines that we are about to change last week have created their effect - people have made their prospects towards them, and suddenly something else is being served. The Supreme Judicial Council has already three times changed its decisions on this matter, i.e. security, perspective, clarity for the parties to the process, we cannot guarantee by adopting this text, namely ensuring legal certainty was the main object of this law. We talked today about the salaries of the MPs and about the feeling they have created on this topic in recent days. I will not go back to the topic we have spoken about several times, you know the position of BSP, we have stood for it here, the salaries of MPs cannot grow the fastest in the country, as the deadlines that mostly concern the higher levels of power should not be cancelled at a time when we reduce the protection that we have provided to others. We are talking about the deadlines for our declarations to the Commission for Countering Corruption and Illegally Acquired Property. By law, we have until May 15th to file these declarations. Moreover, the Law provides that within 30 days we will complete them if we have missed something. No, this is perhaps the most important moment in this law, but it is symbolic and it feeds that feeling that, you see, the National Assembly takes care first of its own interest and then of the other. And it has to be the other way around! Today, it has slipped into the debate several times that, you see, people have to make one more effort, they have to be responsible, they have to be held accountable, they have to keep away from this disease, it's like they're talking about some shit on their part, like they wanted to go for a walk, they got bored at home and they want to go out. It seems that there is a lack of consciousness in much of the room, which has also been shown in the debate on budget update, that many people will soon not be bored at home, but will be unable to stay, as they will not have the means to stay. This is not a question that this law can ignore. We need concrete measures to allow minimum income for those people who have lost everything and are locked up in their homes. It's not about populism, it's about the effectiveness of the measure of staying people at home, because it just won't be possible, unless you plan to lock them up with a padlock, to hold them in their houses when they're pressed for deadlines when they're pressed for bills and when their salaries don't come because of lack of work. For this reason, we do not support the philosophy of either the first bill or its amendment. We can now foresee that it will be further amended and, in a long-term perspective, it can create crises even greater than the one that has come to us at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u205	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? I won't. Speaking, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! I will repeat some of those which I have also expressed to the Committee on Legal Affairs in connection with the proposed Law amending and supplementing the Act on Action Measures during the emergency situation. First of all, it is absolutely unacceptable to put into practice the legislative functions of the independent judiciary because of Article. 57 of the Constitution states that only by law can certain rights and freedoms of Bulgarian citizens be limited, but nowhere is it defined that the constitutional model of governance in Bulgaria should be violated, namely the separation of the authorities of the legislative, executive and judiciary. The next step is perhaps the Council of Ministers, apart from having a legislative initiative, to legislate, to create laws, which leads to excess of the National Assembly. Next, in § 3, Art. 4 It is clearly written that the competent authority may, that is to say, be given an opportunity, rather than an imperative, on the basis of a reasoned request to set a new period which starts after the reasons are dropped. This is where a private entity cannot exercise a right or fulfil an obligation. Finally, it is written that this concerns natural persons, including legal persons representing them. I will not comment on the question that the represented legal entities are also individuals and that it is tautology. This possibility and what is recorded is other unforeseen circumstances in art. 4 will create more problems than importers may want to resolve, because there will be strong conflicting practice in the various regions of the country, because in one region, in one area, the competent authority may provide for and respect some unforeseen circumstances, in another to disregard the same unforeseen circumstances. It is unacceptable in law to have such emptiness! Next, in § 5 of art. 6 is the following proposal: Until the emergency situation has been lifted, the contractual consequences of late payment of liabilities to entrusted entities under a credit agreement and so on shall not apply. Besides what fellow Krum Zarkov said, from the scope of this article. 6 is excluded legal interest. The interest rates in Bulgaria are three types of this is the legal or so-called moral interest, the contractual interest that is described here, and the reward. I mean, legal interest or moratorium is one of the worst because it is the basic interest rate set by BNB, plus 10 points. I mean, as recorded in art. 6, private entities will in practice not have any protection in respect of the morator's interest. You know that the interest is paid after expenses, and so it is recorded in our legislation at least costs, interest, principal. In no way will private entities, as you have written it down, although this is not, in my view, a correct term, be able to defend themselves in respect of the contractual interest which will continue to flow but is described when it flows in art. 86 of the Law on Obligations and Contracts, namely when the debtor owes benefits from the day of the delay. In addition, if a claim is brought in respect of the moral interest because you missed it, the debtor will owe both the state fees and the costs in the relevant case. Next, nowhere in the Law, and in the previous Emergency Act, has not been proposed, and here I am pleased and thanked the Minister of Justice for expressing his position with regard to self-insured persons. Because in the previous law that you passed, in art. Art. 27, Art. 28, if memory serves, it is described that tax obligations are not relevant for traders and farmers, but not for self-insuring persons. Not every self-insuring person is a trader or farmer. This is nowhere in the body of the Law or in Transitional and Final Provisions. I would be happy if you, between first and second reading, did this amendment, in view of what the Minister of Justice said. That is why we will not support the Law in this form. Next, in para. 2 I have never received a reply in the Legal Commission that, at the request of the National Operations Headquarters, which was established by an act of the Prime Minister, the State Agency of State Reserves and Wartime Stocks and at its request, without mediation and without a decision of the Council of Ministers, may provide household property and so on. My question was: what is the legal status of this National Operations Headquarters, because until now it has not been clarified? And how can the National Operations Headquarters actually release goods from the state reserve without an act of the Council of Ministers? Therefore, we will not support the Law in this form. We will make proposals between first and second readings. I hope they will be calmly discussed by the Legal Committee, which I think will take place on Sunday, so that at least this law, which really so soon and quickly has been prepared to change the current law, which you have heard our opinion and opinion about, is also not working and is creating even more problems than decisive, really to come to better proposals, better editing to solve the real problems of Bulgarian citizens. With these provisions, these proposals have made experience in this direction, but I think there will be more problems and legal ambiguities than expected to be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u207	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Are there any lines? I won't. We continue with the speeches. Are there any other statements? I don't see any other speeches. I'm closing the debate. Here you are, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u208	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Since the debate on this bill has been tight and I promise not to waste excessive parliamentary time. I think that today's debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs was largely constructive, promises an opportunity to come up with better solutions. I'll start with this: the problem with this law is not that it has any legal defects. The problem is that there are many suggestions and many concerns of individuals and entities who are obviously, in one way or another, affected by the potential danger, to worsen their legal situation not only as legal personality and exercise of rights, but I would say, some property relations. I continue to argue that the Law that you adopted two weeks ago solves the essence of the complex dynamic problem that we are facing in view of the emergency situation. I support the proposed Bill. In view of the debate, the considerations and arguments put forward in relation to the time limits, I continue to argue that, as the time limits have been established, they are entirely for the benefit of private entities for the benefit of the entities. Provided that the administration and administrative authorities do not stop their work are also in favour of persons and entities which may be affected by one or other administrative acts. With regard to the claim to change the model of the arrangements within the time limits in art. 4 I accept that your objection to the change of the model in art. 4 is partly justified. 4. If you are going to change the principle of operation of the deadlines in this way, then it is also appropriate, in view of your considerations, not to leave the issue of extension of time limits at the discretion of the administrative authority, but to direct the consequences directly and directly. That is to say, on the application of the entity concerned, the time limits are extended for the administrative authority not to have the discretionary authority to assess and comply. But I say again: the first option in terms of time limits, as much as being attacked and discussed, is correct and, in my opinion, in this situation, effectively settles the issue of the fulfilment of the term obligations. I return to the issue of proceedings which have been referred to in four judgments of the College of Judges at the Supreme Judicial Council. Colleagues, if you are being constructive, this issue should not at all be so problematic as to claim potential or potential unconstitutionality. Assuming that the Colleges of the Supreme Judicial Council, as an independent judicial authority, are best aware of procedural matters in all its manifestations and we want to respect their will. And now, in order not to overload the text of the Law, because several times we have argued on this issue whether numeros clausus enumeration is acceptable or should we go to the general rule, if you do not like reference to the general rule, then let us form Annex 1 to art. 3, p. 1 in which all proceedings are reproduced as they have been described by the College of Judges. Then we will have a legal description of the ongoing proceedings. We will still have a publication in the Official Journal. We will still have a reputation for both the parties in the process and the court, i.e. for all participants in the individual proceedings and this issue will in no way escalate. [[Heckling]] There's no time for me to change. Anyone could argue whether parental rights proceedings are extremely urgent at this time, or if some of the PPC proceedings are more urgent. But I have said it several times in the Supreme Judicial Council: we cannot leave the state without a working judicial system without a working criminal court. Colleagues from the Supreme Judicial Council strongly agreed to this, including the chair of the judge's colleague had a plea before the College, so to ensure the public that the courts are working on proceedings that are actually in the public interest and guarding the life, health and fundamental constitutional values of our country. What does this amendment and addition to this law require? In my opinion, the essential issues that are at your attention are two, and in fact this is one question and it concerns two manifestations. The question is the scope of art. 6. I have also had the opportunity in the Legal Commission to put your attention to how you will refine this scope in view of the subjects and in view of the legal transactions. I pointed to your attention that at the present time in art. 6 has a maximum scope for both persons and types of transactions. Thus, it gives maximum protection to those who need to be put to the choice. That is, to act when they have to act or remain in social isolation, although in any transaction or relationship they have committed themselves to taking some action. I see in the Bill that a refined text has been presented. I ask you this time to form the broadest parliamentary will without speculation, without manipulation, without prompting one or other subjects in civil and commercial turnover. Let the broadest possible will and support be assessed which entities we protect and protect, again saying: the objective of the law in force is to protect the individuals of the first value, their rights. As a second priority, however, to protect trade turnover and the interests of economically active entities. In this context, it is the question of the suspension or operation of the time limits for public procurement. In my view and the current text gave the contracting entities and the entities in the procedures under the Public Procurement Act sufficient opportunity to act. But if there is a dispute in this regard, let there be an explicit limit of clarity. I hereby stop by stating my willingness to be available for all discussions between first and second readings and again appeal to your legal, public, political responsibility at this short time to find the most effective and most positive legal solutions in favour of the broadest possible range of legal entities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u209	Thank you, dear Minister. Colleagues, this was the last item on today's agenda. The proposals of all laws between first and second readings are tomorrow, 4 April, until 18:00. The first group to vote on the laws that we have discussed today will be at 20 o'clock. BSP, DPS, Volya and the Independents. At 20.30 is the second group "GERB" and "United Patriarchs." Please have the secretaries in the Chamber of both votes so that they can, together with the electronic system, reflect the vote and sum it up. Thank you. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u210	Guys, are we waiting for someone else, or can we get started? We're going in. First, I put to the vote the procedure for including an additional point, namely: the second vote on the bill amending and supplementing the Energy Act, importer Valentin Nikolov on 31 March 2020. The proposal is to be the fourth item in the programme of the meeting. Please vote. I'm making the agreement that this is a vote by the first group. [[Reply from MP Yordan Tsonev.]] Excuse me. Cancel the vote. He's right, Mr. Tsonev. We must vote on the Energy Act and then vote on this procedure, because in practice the point has not been voted on in this House. Let's be precise. Cancel the vote. We are voting on the draft decision to extend the deadline for the declared state of emergency. I must read the decision as it has not been read: Project! DECISION extending the time period of the declared emergency The National Assembly on a proposal from the Council of Ministers and on the basis of art. 84, p. 12 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in connection with the growing pandemic of COVID-19 HAS DECIDED 1. It shall extend the period of the emergency situation announced by the National Assembly by decision of 13 March 2020 on the entire territory of the Republic of Bulgaria until 13 May 2020. 2. Instructs the Council of Ministers to take all necessary measures to address the emergency situation in relation to the pandemic of COVID-19 and in accordance with art. 57, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Before we vote on this decision, we have two proposals. The first proposal is Mr. Alexander Siddy's term not to be May 13th, but to be April 30th. Please, voting mode. Vote 74 MPs: 54, against 13, abstention 7. In parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "for 54, DPS " 13 against, "VOLIA" "Bulgarian Rhodoljuks" "4 abstentions," the independent "3 abstentions." We're moving on. The next proposal is Mrs Cornelia Ninova's decision not to be May 13th, but April 30th. Please, voting mode. Vote 75 MPs: 55 against 13, abstention 7. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "55" for, "DPS" "13 against," "VOLIA" "Bulgarian Rhodoljuks" "4 abstentions," independent "3 abstentions." We are now voting on the decision as I read it to you. Please, voting mode. Vote 74 MPs: 20, Against 47, abstention 7. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "47 against" and 7 abstentions, DPS "13 for," "VOLIA" "Bulgarian Rodolivki" "4" for, independent "3 for." We're done with a second item on the agenda. We move on to the third item of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. Please, voting mode. Vote 75 MPs: 20, against 55, no abstentions. According to parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "55 against," DPS "13 for," "VOLIA" "Bulgarian Rodoljuktsi" "4 for, independent "3 for." We are continuing with the fourth item on the agenda - Draft amendment and supplement to the Energy Act. Please, voting mode. Vote 74 MPs: 20, none, abstention 54. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "54" abstentions, DPS "13" for, "VOLYA" "Bulgarian Rhodoljuktsi" "4" for, independent "3" for. And the last draft bill "A draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020. Please, voting mode. They voted 75 MPs: 20, Against 9, abstention 46. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "9 against and 46 abstentions," DPS "13 for," "VOLIA" "Bulgarian Rhodolists" "4 for, independent "3 for." Colleagues, let's now vote on Mr. Nikolov's procedure. Please, voting mode. Vote 74 MPs: 20, against 2, abstention 52. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "2 against," 52 abstentions, DPS "13 for," "VOLYA" "Bulgarian Rhodolists" "4 for, independent "3 for." Colleagues, thank you. I expect you Monday at 9:00. Let the secretaries of the groups stay for the next vote. [[Vote groups shall be replaced.]] Colleagues, please take your seats in the entire hall. We start with a second item on today's agenda: Project! DECISION extending the time period of the declared emergency The National Assembly on a proposal from the Council of Ministers and on the basis of art. 84, p. 12 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in connection with the growing pandemic of COVID-19 HAS DECIDED 1. It shall extend the period of the emergency situation announced by the National Assembly by decision of 13 March 2020 on the entire territory of the Republic of Bulgaria until 13 May 2020. 2. Instructs the Council of Ministers to take all necessary measures to address the emergency situation in relation to the pandemic of COVID-19 and in accordance with art. 57, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. There are two editorial proposals: the first one is the MP Alexander Siddy. The term should not be May 13th, but April 30th. Please, voting mode. They voted 102 MPs: for 13, against 29, they abstained 59. By parliamentary groups: GERB 1 for, against 28, 54 abstentions; Total: for 67, against 42, abstention 66. The offer is not accepted. Secretarys, do you confirm the results?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u211	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u212	Yes, thank you. We should now vote on a proposal for an extension of Mrs Cornelia Ninova's declared state of emergency to be 30 April and not 13 May. Please, voting mode. This is the second proposal, which is the same as Mr Siddy's, but we are voting it separately because two parliamentary groups have made the proposal. We have to be correct. They voted 102 MPs: for 12, against 68, they abstained 22. In parliamentary groups: GERB.. there are no for, 68 against, 16 abstentions; Total: for 67, against 81, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. Secretarys, do you confirm the results?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u213	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u214	Yes, thank you. We are going to vote on the draft decision to extend the period of the declared state of emergency. Please, voting mode. They voted 102 MPs: for 102, against and abstention there is no. Total: 122, against 47, abstention 7. The offer is not accepted. Secretarys, do you confirm the results?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u215	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u216	Yes, thank you. We move on to the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020. Please, voting mode. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 123 against 55, abstentions are not. The motion is accepted. Secretarys, do you confirm the results?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u217	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u218	Yes, thank you. We move on to the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Energy Act. Please, voting mode. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 123, no objection, abstention 54. The bill was passed at first reading. Secretarys, do you confirm the results?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u219	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u220	Yes, thank you. We are moving on to the last draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Measures and Actions during the emergency situation, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020. Please, voting mode. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 123 against 9, abstention 46. The motion is accepted. Secretarys, do you confirm the results?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u221	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-03.u222	Yes, thank you. We vote on Mr. Nikolov's procedure at Monday's meeting to include a second reading of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Energy Act as point four. Please, voting mode. They voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 123 against 2, abstention 52. The motion is accepted. That's what we've done for today. Extraordinary plenary sitting on Monday 6 April 2020 at 9.00 We're adjourned. Have a good rest, everyone! [[PHONE RINGING]]
