ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members, I present to your attention a draft programme for the work of the National Assembly 29 January 2020: "1." Vote for a draft decision to vote mistrust the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov for failure of environmental and water policy. Importers supposed to Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, January 20, 2020 2. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Gambling Act. Importers suppose Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs, 16 January 2020 3. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Act on Independent Financial Audit. Importer supposed to the Council of Ministers, 10 December 2019 4. A bill to ratify the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, signed on 30 October 2016 in Brussels. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 28 June 2019 5. Second vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Consumer Protection. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 6 November 2019. Adopted at first vote on 12 December 2019. 6. Draft decision on the extension of the Temporary Committee for the Study of All Data, Facts and Circumstances on the occasion of the allegations of the scandalous bribery scheme in the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship by foreign citizens. Importer (s) Yordan Tsonev, 23 January 2020 Point 1 for Thursday 30 January 2020 7. Draft decision to extend the duration of the Temporary Committee for the Study of the facts and circumstances related to the interruption of the broadcast of the program "Programme" of the Bulgarian National Radio, as well as the allegations of political pressure on the management and journalists of the Bulgarian National Radio. Importers supplied Toma Bikov, Lachezar Ivanov, Alexander Simov and Ivan Chenchev, January 23, 2020. Point 2 for Thursday 30 January 2020 8. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Law on Word Organizations of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals, Dentists and Assistant Pharmacists. Importers "Cornelia Nino" and a group of MPs, 11 September 2019; Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs, 10 October 2019 Point 3 for Thursday 30 January 2020 9. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Organ, Tissue and Cell Transplanting. Importers Georgi Mihaylov and a group of MPs, 12 September 2019 Point 4 for Thursday 30 January 2020 10. Parliamentary control Friday, January 31st at 9:00 p.m. including: 10.1. Debates on questions by MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Jello Boychev, Violeta Jelev and Atanas Kostadinov to the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on the policy of the Ministry of Energy regarding the future of coal thermal power plants in Bulgaria; 10.2. Answers to questions and Please, voting mode. [[Arrival in the Chamber because of a problem with the voting system. Members of Parliament from all parliamentary groups raise their hand.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u2	The system's shutting down. The systems in the state have completely blocked the evidence.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u3	It's gonna work. It's gonna work. It's gonna work. Because we're a lot of people and we attack the consoles at once. [[Radio, noise.]] We're still waiting. [[Reply from MP Dragomir Stoinev.]] Please, the Quaestors, help the MPs, including me, here it is. Did we all make it? There's more colleagues we'll wait for, don't worry! Since the system hasn't seen so many MPs in a long time, we've scared her off at once. [[Happy tidings.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u4	We're not talking about a system reset for a reason.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u5	Mr. Lazarov and Mr. Ivanov have a problem with the Quaestors, please. [[Radio, noise and lines.]] Colleagues, cancel the vote. Let's vote again. Let's wait a minute. Hold on, guys. BSP, are you 80?! [[Noise and lines.]] We've canceled the vote. We're calling for the system right now. The vote has been revoked. Please vote again on the proposed draft programme for the work of the National Assembly this week. Has everyone been able to vote, colleagues? They voted 231 MPs: 191, none, 40 abstentions. The motion is accepted. Before I give you the floor of procedure, Mr. Ivanov and Mr. Popov, to read the messages. I'm guessing the procedures are in connection with a first point or something before that.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u6	Mine's in connection with point one.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u7	Draft and draft resolutions from 22 to 28 January 2020: Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Structure of the Area. Importer "Spas Panchev." The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Committee on Health. A bill to supplement the Labour Code. Importers - Alexander Siddi, Iskren Veselinov and Alexander Sabanov. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Draft decision on the extension of the Temporary Committee for the Study of All Data, Facts and Circumstances on the occasion of the allegations of the scandalous bribery scheme in the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship by foreign citizens. Importer "Yordan Tsonev." Draft decision to extend the duration of the Temporary Committee for the Study of the facts and circumstances related to the interruption of the broadcast of the program "Programme" of the Bulgarian National Radio, as well as the allegations of political pressure on the management and journalists of the Bulgarian National Radio. Importers suppose Thomas Bikov, Lachezar Ivanov, Aleksandar Simov and Ivan Chenchev. Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services enhancing the sustainability of disaster risks between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, signed in Sofia on 6 December 2019. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Proposal for discussions on questions No 054-05-1/15.01.2020 by the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Zhelyo Boychev, Violeta Jelev and Atanas Kostadinov to the Minister of Energy Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova on the policy of the Ministry of Energy regarding the future of coal thermal power plants in Bulgaria. Importers suppose Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the decision-making process of the European Union in 2020. Importer "The Council of Ministers." It is allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Energy, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Defence, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, the Committee on Agriculture and Food, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Education and Science, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Health, the Committee on Environment and Water, the Committee on Transport, Information Technologies and Communications, the Committee on Culture and Media, the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints, the Committee on Corruption and Human Rights, the Commission on Combating Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics, the Committee on the Control of Security Services, the Application and Use of Special Intelligence Funds and Access to Data under the Law on Electronic Communications, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Tracking Agencies. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection and Development of Culture. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Culture and Media is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Messages: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria shall inform the National Assembly that: I. During the period from 29 January to 31 January 2020, a joint Bulgarian-American training of the Joint Command of the Special Operations of the Republic of Bulgaria will be held on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Forces and funds from the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria as well as helicopters from the US Land Forces in Europe will participate in the preparation. The preparation is not related to military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming military operations, and to activities to prevent military action led by other (other country or organisation) armed forces. In accordance with the provisions of the Law, the competent state authorities have been notified. II. For the period from 10 to 14 February 2020, an exercise will be held in the Hellenic Republic. The training will take part in the formation of the Land Forces with soldiers with combat and transport equipment, state-of-the-art equipment, equipment and equipment. The participation of a formation of Land Forces in the exercise is on the basis of an invitation from the commander of the Land Forces of the Hellenic Republic and reached arrangements at the planned conferences held. The exercise is not related to the conduct of military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to the carrying out of activities to prevent military actions conducted by other (other State or organisation) armed forces. III. In the performance of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and stay on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, by its order he has authorised the passage through the air space of non-military nature and the landing of Burgas Airport on an airplane with its crew from the Air Force of Ukraine for the transport of military production. The authorisation shall be valid for transit through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria on flights via Ukraine route and back from 24 to 31 January 2020. The notifications were received on 23 and 24 January 2020, with an entry in. No. 003-09-10, with vx. No. 003-09-11 and vx. No 003 09-12, and provided to the Defence Committee. The National Assembly received a report from the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the implementation of the functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 22 December 2019. "21 January 2020 and Protocol No 2 of a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund, held on 23 January 2020, at which the report is reviewed and discussed. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report and the minutes were sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to the first item on the agenda: MAINTENANCE OF THE PROJECT OF A DECISION ON THE MAINTENANCE OF THE MINISTERAL COUNCIL OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA WITH THE MINISTER-FREE BORISCO MAINTENANCE OF ENVIRONMENT POLICY AND WATERS. Kornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 20 January 2020. Mr. Popov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members of the House! My procedure is the way I conduct myself. I address you specifically as President of the National Assembly. All of us, the Members of the National Assembly, but especially you, Madam President, are obliged to protect the authority of the most representative body in the Republic of Bulgaria, in a parliamentary republic, namely the National Assembly. Last week, when the arguments regarding the no-confidence vote on extremely real and severe problems in Bulgaria were discussed, Mr. Prime Minister clearly preferred the fans of [[noise and lines]] before solving the problems with the water crisis of a hundred thousand city and the tons of waste that is being poured across Bulgaria. Today, when this vote of mistrust is voted, the Prime Minister is not here again, in the National Assembly. Did you turn to him, invite him here and in how you prevent the marginalisation of the National Assembly by the Prime Minister? Did you invite him, and if so, why isn't he here? [[noise and lines]] Now, what are his motives? Now the fans of Levski are gone. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. The provisions of art. 89 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and Articles 109 and 111 of the Rules of Procedure do not require the presence of a Prime Minister when a vote is discussed and voted. He is voting for the work of the Council of Ministers, part of the Council of Ministers is here. The Council of Ministers is notified of today's vote. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u10	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! I propose a procedure for direct broadcast of this point on Bulgarian National Television 2 and Bulgarian National Radio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 234 MPs: for 231, there is no abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please turn on the cameras and microphones of BNT 2 and BNR. Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u12	Madam President, honourable Members, honourable ministers! Mr. Popov provoked me. He said the Prime Minister should be here. There's gotta be another guy here. He's here in the hall, but he should be up here with you, Madam President. The third month since the National Assembly has had its new Vice-President. You guys ever see him in the stands before? It's his job to stand on the stand, to lead, to give the floor, to interrupt. Can this man handle this task? Because I'm beginning to doubt that he can't handle this task. It's not just about giving him an office. Yeah, there's an office. It's not just about giving him a car from the National Security Service.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u13	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u14	That's the way it is. A higher issue in the manner of conduct, Madam President!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u15	Yes, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u16	Finally, this person will become the host of the Bulgarian National Assembly! Or are you hiding it from someone? Maybe the mothers of the disabled children...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u17	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. I understand your remark. [[People's representative Pavel Shopov continues to speak to off microphones.]] Mr. Shopov, please! Thank you for your proper remark. Mr. Simeonov will be included in the order to conduct the National Assembly next week. [[Noise and lines.]] Here you are, Mr. Chukolov, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u18	Thank you, Madam President. I'm under the impression that you're ashamed to put this gentleman next to you. [[Weak applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u19	Is the procedure on the same subject?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u20	Looks like it. Nothing more. Enjoy your work. [[Noise, laughter.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov. Thank you. You have a nice job too. [[Noise, lines, laughter.]] As chairman, I have the right to issue an order to appoint my alternates for the week. Mr. Simeonov will be on for work next week. Colleagues, I'll read to you: Project! DECISION on the vote of mistrust of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 89 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Votes mistrust of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov for failure of environmental and water policy. The draft decision will be adopted if more than half of all the MPs voted for it. That is, if 121 people voted for it. Please, voting mode. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, take it easy on the consoles, everyone will be able to exercise their vote! Let's not burden the system. Vote 235 MPs: 102, against 124, abstention 9. The offer is not accepted. The vote of no confidence is not successful. There are negative votes next. Mrs. Daritkova, come in for a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With a fiasco for the opposition, another vote of no confidence ended. And that was a preeminent finale because you didn't think you'd succeed yourself. The idea and topic are current problems in the Environment sector, but your script was weak, the realization bad. Even your slide show wasn't impressive because your main goal was to extract a political dividend from the Pernik crisis. Again, blinded by close party interests and leadership ambitions, you have failed to convince people that you are offering an alternative. Everyone has the feeling that you're more of a bad alternative. You bet on negative talking and fuel people's fears. Without worry, you use lies and manipulations, even such that, for example, by burning waste, you can become infected with hepatitis A. [[Noise and lines.]] It is a pity that a party with a hundred years of history could fall to such impropriety and ideological ecclecticism!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u23	Don't give grades!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u24	And since the debates on the extremely important topic of conservation of natural resources and the environment have developed around the concept of responsibility, it is time to ask you: who in BSP will take responsibility for the failed vote? With us responsibility is clearly defined, it is obvious that it is sought by all legal means and no one has a stretched political umbrella over it. Now I expect after the fourth failed vote of mistrust to begin explaining, as after another election loss, that this is actually a victory, underestimating the democratic reflex of the Bulgarians. Still, I hope you're not upset enough to decide to go underground again. [[Applause from GERB.]] I thank all responsible parliamentarians who realise that this government has the potential and the powers to tackle all challenges and to complete the mandate with the implementation of the requested programme. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u25	Time! Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. Second negative vote, Mr. Gurnevsky. [[Noise, lines and shouts: "Eee!"]] How are your colleagues enjoying you? [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Gurnevsky will be as elegant in his words as ever.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u26	Dear Madam President, honourable Bulgarian ministers, honourable colleagues! I absolutely convinced myself that I voted against this vote of no confidence in the government because it became clear from the debates that there is no national crisis in the management of ecology and water in Bulgaria. Yes, we have a serious local problem with Pernik's water supply for various objective and subjective reasons. The government reacted adequately and found the decision for Pernik far before the left was sucked out of its fingers manipulating arguments for its no-confidence vote. However, the real reasons for the request of this vote have become infinitely clear. The first is that the centenary is trying to remove responsibility for its 40-year-old lack of care towards the country's water-borne etheric network. A network built through socialism and worn out long before his death. It was no accident at the beginning of the transition that the country lost 70% of its drinking water. Only in the last 10 years with the absorption of funds and on European projects began the treatment of this problem. A problem bequeathed to us by the communist nomenclature while plundering in the criminal transition Bulgaria. The second reason. After ten years in a row the people punished them with a vote of distrust in all elections, the Red Restorators are now trying to catch political fish in the dried-up Pernik Dam. [[Noise and lines.]] After their losses last year in two choices today, they hoped with procedural games to get their hands on power through the back door of democracy without elections. Well, comrades and comrades, how many times does this people have to break you to find out that the game is over?! [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) Applause by GERB.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u27	Bravo! Thank you, Mr. Gurnevsky, I was impressed by the rhyme at the end. Here you are, Mr. Tzipov, for a third negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I voted against it, first of all, because the solution to the water crisis cannot happen with the creation of a constitutional crisis. The importers of the vote over the years have clearly demonstrated the last 30 years of democratic changes that they cannot solve problems but create them.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u29	Who created this crisis?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u30	This has also become clear from the debates because we have not heard any concrete, serious proposal on how to resolve the water crisis in Pernik. Last but not least, I voted against it because, as my colleague Gurnevski said, the only goal you have pursued is to enter the power through the back door to divert Bulgaria from its democratic path. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) Applause by GERB.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. Let's move on, guys. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u32	In the manner of conduct, Madam President. I would like you to explain to my fellow Members that the vote of mistrust is not a reverse of parliament, but a parliamentary procedure. Give them a rule book and read, get literate, see that it's a normal procedure. And the political fish, you excavated it with the protection of ecology, there is no one to catch it. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u33	Thank you, Mr. Genov. We'll continue with a statement. Come on in, Mrs. Ninova. [[On the stands comes the leadership of the BSP for Bulgaria. The MPs from BSP for Bulgaria are becoming right. Noise and lines.]] Quiet, please, colleagues! Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u34	Are you in order, Madame Chairman? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u35	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u36	Dear Bulgarian citizens, in the last few years the state, society has come from a crisis: a crisis in health care, animal plague, water crisis, a crisis with the dirty air, with the junk of Europe and of the world that turned Bulgaria into a dump. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u37	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u38	They are due to carelessness, incompetence and corruption in the government of Borisov. The systems are starting to fail one after the other. One of the doctors said that in medicine this is called a polyorgan failure. When the organs in one body stop functioning, we know what the output is. Such power can be maintained only by fear, pressure and repression, by closing the mouths of the brave, free, and incoherent. We've witnessed this over the years. Of course, first, it started with us from the opposition. Colleagues have been subjected to numerous checks without due cause. For years you have been impressed by it: there is no alternative, there is no alternative. GERB may be bad, but they are the only ones. Then it continued with the journalists. Dear colleagues, journalists, do you remember how many of you in the years have been fired and thrown out of work for having a different and bold opinion and expressing it freely? You went through the business that you also put pressure on, fear. You went through the protesters. First, you divided them and opposed them. Then you took pictures of them, and you called them in every single day at the police station to harass them and their families. You have come to gassing free Bulgarian protesters against government policy. [[Noise and lines.]] You didn't get enough of that. You have set your sights and reached the highest level in the country. [[Noise and lines.]] Dear Bulgarian citizens, do you think: if the President were a obedient, silent, harmless and agreeable person, would we be listening on the air to special intelligence devices yesterday?! Probably not. Let us aside the question that these SRS shows that it has not broken any law in the state, but we want to say something else very important. Dear governors and representatives of the judiciary, announcing special intelligence means is a violation of at least several laws in Bulgaria. It's an attempt to intimidate the president and keep him quiet. We believe he won't do it. This is supposedly a legal act for political purposes to remove a bright political opponent without regard to the consequences, and they are the destruction of the institutions. But it's not just that. What happens is harmful and dangerous. Dear Bulgarians, we live in instability in Bulgaria, created by the government; we live in crises in our lives every day; in poverty, inequalities, fear, and now a great war. Dear Bulgarians, break down statehood for the sole purpose of staying in power at all costs and without any opponent. We know the no-confidence vote didn't pass. [[Heckling]] Let's get out of mathematics and ask you: with what you heard from the negative votes, how many of you agree? We have heard that a legitimate right to opposition in a democratic state to demand a vote of no confidence is the back entrance to political life. In the debate, we heard that the constitutionally recorded possibility of an office is illegal. The rulers not only quietly violate the Constitution, but now officially, from here on out loud, suspend it with words. [[GERB lines.]] But let's get out of the lawsuit. We ask you "Not only those 41% of the Bulgarians who said that you support the vote of distrust in a sociological study, with you who voted for these parties, there are many smart people, patriots, by free choice you chose them and this deserves respect if you did it freely. But we ask you, is that what you voted for? Breathing cancer and drinking poison?! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u39	Mrs. Ninova!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u40	To pay for the expensive medicines £150. in a municipal hospital and BGN 1050 in private; to impoverish while few are rich in your income?! Did you vote to break down and sell the state? [[Heckling]] Think about it. If we're afraid today, we become accomplices to this trial. We from BSP for Bulgaria are not afraid. Let everyone who cares about Bulgaria, about their family, about themselves and their children, unite and continue our will for change. Be courageous about this change is possible and it is up to us!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u41	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. [[Loud noise and lines. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] We continue with the second item on the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE HAZARD LAW, No 054-01-4. It was brought in by the MP... [[Move, noise and lines.]] Please remain silent and take your seats! It was introduced by the National Representative Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs on 16 January 2020. With the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, Mrs. Angelova will introduce us. [[Relations from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev.]] Why won't you be quiet, Mr. Chenchev? [[Relations from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev.]] Well, I'll punish you then.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u42	Then punish me!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u43	Come on, sit down and let's get back to work. [[Relations from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev.]] The colleagues listened to your presentation with attention. [[Relations from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev.]] Please take your seat. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u44	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the The Gambling Act, No 054-01-4, submitted by National Representative Valeri Simeonov and Group of Members of the National Assembly on 16 January 2020 At a regular meeting held on 23 January 2020, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance: Marinela Petrova Deputy Minister, and Ludmila Petkova Director of the Tax Policy Directorate. The bill was presented by the MP Valeri Simeonov. With the current bill, a change in the Gambling Act aims at lottery games, with the exception of raffle, bingo, keno and their varieties... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u45	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u46	... to be organized only and solely by the State enterprise "Bulgarian Sports Analyst" (Bulgarian Sports Analyst) whose revenue from the activity is used by the Ministry of Youth and Sports, in coordination with the Minister of Finance, for the needs of physical education and sport. As a result of the proposed change, more funds will be provided for the individual programmes of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, namely: for development and promotion of physical activity and practice of sports by different groups of the population; for supporting sports federations related to the adapted physical activity and practice of sports by people with disabilities; development and promotion of students, including children at risk to systemic physical activity; physical education and practice of sport as a means of healthy lifestyle, physical and spiritual development; creating conditions for the implementation of an effective training and competitive process of athletes, massaging sports activities in different age groups and improving the training process management system as an opportunity for sport development and a basis for the realization of high sports results, etc. In addition, more means will be provided for maintenance, repair, reconstruction, complete renovation or creation of new sports sites and facilities in state and municipal schools in the Republic of Bulgaria, which in turn will lead to improvement of the conditions for sport in them. The current legislation allows other gambling operators to organise these lottery games, but they do not have any commitments to the financing of sport. With the increase of the funds from the activities of the State-owned enterprise, the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer will ensure a change in the socio-economic conditions in the field of physical education and sport and will continue to be fully implemented in this area. It is also proposed that the government of the State undertaking should be jointly appointed by the Minister of Youth and Sports and the Minister of Finance, thereby ensuring that these bodies are financially responsible. In addition, it is envisaged that a ban on the sale of coupons and other certifications relating to lottery games should be introduced from commercial establishments located close to educational establishments. This type of games are one of the most massive on the Bulgarian market and their distribution is also related to the conduct of aggressive advertising in electronic media and internet. This largely affects adolescents who are a vulnerable group, which should be protected from the possibility of creating gambling addiction. In practice, there is no strict control of the age of buyers in the retail outlets and the measure will prevent students from acquiring such coupons during recess. The Bill also lists rules regarding the termination of the licenses of persons who currently organise such games, giving realistic implementation deadlines in which to bring their activities into line with the Law. Thus, the proposed legislative change will not lead to a violation of the rights of the winners whose profits have not been paid so far. This is necessary insofar as the rules for some of the momentary lottery games provide for deferred payout of the winnings. The change ensures that the winners of lottery games for which the restriction will apply will pay off the resulting profits within the deadlines set out in the Project. To this end, the organizers of lottery games, whose license will be terminated, will have to establish in favour of the State Gambling Commission an unconditional and irrevocable bank guarantee in the amount of profits that have not been paid up so far. Following the discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Gambling Act, No 054-01-4, submitted by the National Representative Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs on 16 January 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u47	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Importer? Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u48	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The current bill is second, I hope this time will be a successful attempt to limit the immense distribution of gambling in our country. In the middle of 2018, we submitted to the National Assembly and provided to your attention a Project for amendments to the Gambling Act, which envisaged limiting the supply of gambling, the way in which this is done, and introduced corresponding restrictions in this direction. With the current proposal for a change in the Law, we are introducing some more stringent measures that are related to the most common gambling, and these are lottery games. I do not know if it is necessary for each of you to be persuaded, I suppose that each of you has witnessed this immense development mainly of lottery games in the form of coupons, tickets in which the prizes are set and by rubbing the surface layer of the cards can come to the result of this buying and betting and corresponding gambling bidding. This spread is being seen absolutely everywhere. The development started from 2014, when due to a omission or deliberate passing through the National Assembly of a specific text, all participants and all lottery game operators were exempt from tax. Then there was a very serious development of these games. We are watching him continue and the private operators who carry out this type of activity, unfortunately, it has been found very recently that they are even saving a large part of the taxes, but this is another topic. The aim of the Bill is to limit this modern pandemic, I would say, this leprosy that damages health, property, and very often the lives of stammering players. Lately criminal statistics have increased criminal cases as a result of gambling addiction due to the inability to obtain funds. Very often it ruins the lives of whole families. There are cases where the closest people are subjected to terror and even murder. In a case of the European Court of Justice, short but quite clearly and categorically exposed the damage caused by gambling. It is found that they carry serious risks both for society and for players in general, and for all citizens due to deterioration of the economic situation of the family situation as well as their health. Due to their nature gambling and cash prize games allow only a very small number of players to win, as otherwise, naturally, they would not have had enough funds and could not continue to exist. Therefore, in the huge number of cases players lose much more than they earn. The excitment of the game, the promise of much bigger profits, can make players spend more on games than the budget they have, and to get to those ugly cases I talked about at the beginning. These are the only motives, I assure you, to me and my colleagues, by submitting this bill, and any speculation in any other direction, hints of business redistribution and so on, I assure you that they are unfounded and within the framework of this governance in which we are involved will be impossible at this time. I cannot guess in the future what will happen in the next government and in the next National Assembly to change these laws. I believe that it is our common duty, which includes the Constitution, to make the necessary efforts to protect the health of our compatriots. These are in general terms the reasons for the introduction of the bill in question. It was set out in the Committee on Budget and Finance Report, and I do not think I should dwell on it. The texts have been clearly explained. I would just like to add that again on the occasion of media speculation, in many EU countries, I would say, in most EU countries a state monopoly has been imposed on these games. I would quote: Norway, Poland, Croatia, Portugal, Austria, Estonia, England, Hungary and a number of other countries. Austria is speculated that private operators do so in favour of the state monopoly. They carry out this activity on a concession. We believe that the spread, again I repeat, of this type of disease dependence or disease condition, as gambling is defined by the World Health Organization as such, should be prevented and the most secure way of doing so is precisely by providing and the right to these lottery games, the most mass games, should be performed only by the state. From there they follow all these objectives, which we had set with our colleagues from the "United Patriarchs" in the first draft in the middle of 2018, namely: limitation of advertising, setting the time of advertising, as well as the places to provide these services, as they are currently provided everywhere in shops, in small restaurants, in bus stations, absolutely everywhere where there is commercial activity. In this way, it is not possible to comply with the Law requirement for these lottery games and not to offer gambling to children under 18 years of age at all, as private lottery operators have transferred this right to their distributors. In general, that's the motive. I'm counting on your conscience. I count on your responsibility to support this law, all the more so that it was generally supported in 2018 by the main political parties in parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u49	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. I'm opening the debate now. Colleagues, please, you have the floor to speak. Mr. Gechev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u50	Dear Madam President, honourable colleague Simeonov, honourable colleagues! We will not support this bill for economic and moral reasons. We cannot accept the statement of our colleague Simeonov that the offering of the amendments to the Law is not related to the redistribution of a specific market between oligarchic groups in Bulgaria, a market that brings easy money in hundreds of millions of leva at the expense of Bulgarian citizens, at the expense of ruining human fates. In the Socialist Party we consider drafts and submit other proposals related to the development of the Bulgarian economy, with the creation of added value, with the development of the different sectors of the Bulgarian national economy, for Bulgaria's integration into the economy of the European Union and increasing its competitiveness. We cannot support a bill that aims to release some fog precisely in the process in which this redistribution takes place in the fog and under the umbrella. Honourable Members, it is said that the Agency for State Financial Inspection has published a Report presented to us by the Prime Minister that it is more than 210 million. lv. outstanding according to this agency by the respective players in the gambling business. In this regard, the question arises: where are the state institutions? Why have the state institutions made losses in hundreds of millions for the Bulgarian budget, and through the redistribution of the Bulgarian health care system, for the Bulgarian children in education, for social programs, for stimulating the competitiveness of the Bulgarian companies? How is it that over five years over 210 million? lv. have fallen into private hands instead of the budget? Who are these institutions? And we have no doubt that this check has been done very well, but I think it is clear to everyone that this check has been ordered. How is the Prime Minister going to say, "I have no way to hide this report?" But how will you hide it, sir? You probably ordered this report. So let's see what the functions of the State Gambling Commission are. The main function of the State Gambling Commission, I prepared this part of the statement from the Commission's website, is the state oversight of gambling. Bravo! Very nice supervision makes the State Gambling Commission! What are the priorities and objectives of the Commission? Secondly, carrying out in-depth checks and studies on submitted documents and a place for compliance with the Gambling Act. Excellent! Unfulfilled function! Who is the Gambling Commission interacting with? National Revenue Agency! The gambling agency is at which institution? To the Ministry of Finance! The National Revenue Agency, which has slept hundreds of millions of leva, is to which institution? To the Ministry of Finance! The Minister of Finance is a member of what? The Council of Ministers! Besides the National Revenue Agency, which, with its experts, has special departments for large companies, not one but both eyes have closed. For what reason? These guys from the Gaming Control Agency have two reasons: they either have full professional ladybugs and they don't know what they're talking about, or they're good professionals, but they've closed not one but both eyes. I think there are a lot of specialists there. And these specialists need to check in the specialized state authorities why, under what conditions, how many New Year's cards they received to close their eyes for years to fly past them hundreds of millions of levs from the Bulgarian budget in the direction of private hands. This is the Ministry of Interior, DGBOP, the Executive Agency of the Ministry of Labour and so on. Take a look at the structure of the Gambling Agency. It is full of Directorates, Director of the Directorate of Licension and Control; Director of the Directorate of Normal Works and Secretarys of the Directorate of Transport only does not have the Directorate of Waterbirds! It's all there, but it's out of control. Note who enter as members of the State Gambling Commission. First of all, the National Revenue Agency will not say the names of the colleagues who enter there. The National Revenue Agency is inside the Gambling Commission and should be the best expert sent there. Who would you send to this ball of huge money that's spinning around? Best to keep an eye on what's going on! Secondly, a person from the State Agency is directly represented. What's DANS been doing in the Gaming Commission for five years? Same thing he did at KTB. There, for the two directors of the two financial departments, they said...................... a few days before the bank fell, they left. One became unemployed from the huge salary of an officer going unemployed. The other goes to twice the salary in another state institution. He didn't hear! He saw us! Now I am very curious whether the representative of the DANS is still there or has not retired from illness. It'll be very interesting! Then comes a representative from the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Economy, of course. The entire government is in the Gambling Commission. And the kindergarten kids won't believe that for five years, hundreds of millions are running out, these guys are sitting here filing Christmas cards and first spring cards! Specialized units are to be established here to investigate these people for months. I also came across something else. A decision by the Council of Ministers. A decree, to be exact. There's a difference! Dear colleagues, on 13 December 2019 there is Decree No 334 of the Council of Ministers, submitted by the Minister of Finance and accepted, which concerns the fees in gambling activity. It's a very curious reading posted on the Internet! And what's interesting about this reading? By making changes in fees in order to increase budget revenues and nothing has been noticed, what comes out? The key state institutions are in the Gambling Commission. The National Revenue Agency is inside. A decree is being introduced to the Council of Ministers, which is being debated. Dear colleagues, how is a decree accepted? First, this decree is motivated in writing and orally by the Minister of Finance Mr. Goranov. Secondly, every ministerial decree passes through the Legal Department of the Council of Ministers. The best legal experts in the Council of Ministers should have seen this proposal. When there is an agenda of the Council of Ministers on all decrees and proposals made for amendments to laws, opinions are required from all ministries concerned. The other ministries have issued opinions as well. I am very interested in what these opinions are and what are these changes to the Law on Fees in December, so now it is necessary to change the whole system? In conclusion, here a little gambling will need some clue to ask the Bulgarian public who is responsible for the huge gambling scandal? It is obvious that the scandal, firstly, wants to conceal the redistribution of functions and cash flows, but, secondly, we need the joker to decide who is responsible for this legal chaos in gambling, which was created intentionally, the board of directors of Jacecoop in the village of Lyliace or the other board of directors of the Council of Ministers? The answer is yours. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. - What's the line? First line Mr. Simeonov, second line Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u52	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Gechev, I agree with most of your speech and I accept the facts that you are exposing. Another point is that, in my opinion, they are not the essence of the proposed bill. Perhaps in the future you will have problems with one of the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly when you make such speeches. I deliberately saved all the facts and circumstances associated with abuse, investigations and so on. This is not the subject of this bill. After all, I could not understand why you would not support this bill. One naked accusation, I quote, that market redistribution is taking place, I don't think it gives any reason and explanation for such behaviour on your part or, if such a decision is made, by your group. It's unsupported with no charge. After all, the bill is imported by me and my colleagues. I think that in terms of my policy activity so far, in corruption and participation in schemes and deals with anyone, who is in charge or opposition, no one can blame me! I think, again, much of the gaps, the handicaps, the violations, the possible violations, are a fact, but this is the work of the prosecution and the court, which have already entered these institutions. I think our job is different. Our job is to create a legal base to solve the problems of the state. In this case, that's what we're offering you. And I repeat, and I'm done with this. I can't understand why you won't support this bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u53	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. Come in for a second line, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u54	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Professor Gechev, this speech I heard from you, I was thinking of holding it myself a moment ago. That's the speech you were giving right now! Isn't that what this is all about? Since when have gambling problems started? Since 2013, when gambling almost completely disbanded and entered very powerful private subjects in this gambling. Let me just tell you the official figure that over 3 billion. 200 million. lv. They're in this business every year! And you're blaming the Gaming Agency now?! Understand it, there's a sense of self-preservation in every person. Would you be willing to go for $3 billion? 200 million. lv. A year?! These people have a huge power, not just financial! I repeat: not just financial! This speech you were holding, I was going to hold it, so let most of the gambling return to the hands of the state, especially these lottery tickets, and accordingly you will see that the scandals will be quite reduced, as it was before 2013! And, secondly, I ask you: do you know where the tickets to the so-called pyramids are printed? Where? [[Replys: "In Argentina! "]] And India! Do you understand, Professor, I respect that, but to grant you the right to print these tickets as if you were given the right to be a second mint? It's securities! Where will they be printed outside Bulgaria?! What do you mean?! That's why I'm telling you, Mr. Gechev, that this speech that you gave would have been me holding it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u55	Your time is up, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u56	Thank you. Everyone has a sense of self-preservation, so when things go back to the country, everything will calm down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u57	Third line? I won't. You have the floor for the coat, dear Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u58	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I thank you for your lines. In essence, the lines can't not confirm the facts! First, colleague Simeonov, in terms of limitation. I will also allow myself as a representative of the National Assembly to express my personal opinion. My personal opinion is that Bulgaria should be like the larger number of countries around the world in development, with no gambling. Personally, I and many of my colleagues are strongly opposed to any form of gambling. There are two groups of people involved in gambling, one who generate easy money and have fun in gambling, perform redistribution, and the poor souls who wonder how to make ends meet and because there is no prospect at all with them, hope for some miracle, people who go around gas stations, paws and rub tickets. And this is a very sad picture and a moral question arises: do we have the right to take away that hope? Once the Law was passed, there should be budget estimates here because, Mr. Simeonov, we see it in the media, I am not a lawyer, but I would think, would there be any consequences for the budget if there were legal proceedings? Where is the signature and stamp of the state experts? From which institution? Among those who close their eyes for five years and tell us if there would be losses for the Bulgarian budget? Can someone come out and sign that there won't be any losses, and there will only be an increase in revenue, which we doubt? Secondly, in terms of these 3.5 billion yes, for this reason five years the power has put an umbrella and quietly, the shade divides the bundles with the main players in gambling. They're not afraid, they're just sharing the money! In addition, people who are afraid to give their resignations and leave the State Gambling Agency and the National Revenue Agency, because by this logic, a colleague, they do not go to the refinery, for example. The refinery after privatization until this year hasn't paid a single penny of profit tax, has it? Okay, she didn't pay! And then what comes out? Well, give up their resignation teams at the National Revenue Agency who have to do these checks because they're afraid. We're about restrictions. I understand from our colleagues that, since 2018, we have proposed these restrictions: where to sell lottery tickets away from schools, away from kindergartens, away from universities and so on. In conclusion, some of the ideas in this project are acceptable because they restrict gambling, but the reason for this project now appears is the huge scandal that now the government in the country, together with the gambling business, distribute the bundles behind the back of the Bulgarian people and therefore we will not support this project.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u59	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. Mr. Lambev, come in. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u60	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The topic is extremely important and important for gambling in Bulgaria, as the latest statistics show that over three million Bulgarians gamble. The more serious problem is that only 10% of these three million Bulgarians play for pleasure, and the scary thing is that 40% of gamblers believe that this way they can get rich. This finding is scary from the point of view of the suggestion to the Bulgarian people that without work, effort and work, it can improve its well-being. And here to return to the genesis of this pandemic in Bulgarian society. The Genesis is legislative with the beginning of 2012, when the changes in the Bulgarian legislation began to resolve any type of gambling and lottery games, the irradiation of Bulgarian citizens through television and radios, that this brings happiness and is a form of a quick way to get rich, to get to the current state in which more than 3 billion of the Bulgarian citizens' miserable incomes basically occur in the so-called private lotteries, and against them are some mischievous 200 million paid in the form of taxes. Indeed, this problem is on the agenda. And indeed this bill, which is offered to us with these motives, sounds in that direction, but! The big one! This pandemic and this stupidity will not be decided by keeping the lottery, will not be resolved by transferring gambling to just one state monopoly, because if regulation and law are respected if taxation in this direction is fair and not so minimal, then there may be a solution to this problem. Otherwise, all of us, including the Bulgarian society, have reasonable assumptions that this bill aims to serve private interest. And if this National Assembly votes on this bill, then these doubts, at least in me, will be firmly established. A new philosophy is needed on gambling and the regulation of gambling, and the minimum incomes that are entering are currently a priori, there is still no regulation of the Council of Ministers on how to spend, and the reasons that are stated in the public space that they will go to health and education have nothing to do with reality. I will not support this bill, as it will not solve the really serious and worrying problem with these pandemic levels of gambling by poor Bulgarians who are becoming more and more impoverished and become part of this stupidity process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u61	Thank you, Mr. Lambev. Are there lines? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Tishev. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u62	Mr. Chairman, please extend the speaking time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u63	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u64	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will start with the following: why do we need this haste on the introduction of the Bill? Last week, in the Committee on Budget and Finance, it was tabled as an emergency point. Today, as planned, should be viewed at first reading in the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Tomorrow should be seen at first reading in the Committee on Education and Science. Not at all! We, as a second point, are looking at it here, and that is, after five years clearly, the state budget does not include more than 210 million. lv. According to the Agency for State Financial Inspection, and according to other sources and more, and not a single state institution in these five years has seen a problem. Now, all of a sudden, give it a quickie, a week early, let's see if we can solve this problem. Secondly, the attitude towards gambling and gambling business in each country is a state policy somewhere has a monopoly, somewhere gambling is even prohibited, and elsewhere there are both state and private operators. It was also said: gambling leads to addiction. But all gambling leads to addiction not only lotteries, but this bill concerns only one segment of the gambling business and these are the lotteries. What do we say with the Bill? We have a problem with gambling in Bulgaria, but only with lotteries, with other problems there is no problem. This casinos, roulettes, keno, bingo, poker don't list them, racing, online betting, there's everything right there, right? There are no problems, they continue under the same conditions, with the same private operators, only the lotteries are our problem. Dear colleagues, this is not a state-run approach and a state-run position towards the gambling sector. This is solving the problem and this is solving the problem piece. And how do we solve this problem and this issue to just one fragment in the gambling sector? Are we closing the lotteries? We're not shutting them down. Do we increase the tax and fees that the lotteries have to pay to equalize them with the state lotteries of the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer respectively? No, we hold them, thus monopolizing the sector. Why is it that they and not other types of gambling are not clear?! Will Bulgarian citizens stop rubbing tickets? No, they will not stop because these same games will then be offered by the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer. I will not go into details with my statement on whether or not the Constitution is violated here are lawyers, but it is clearly written down which sectors of the economy can be a state monopoly. And another issue, which may be the most important issue and which we have to comment on here, because this bill has been tabled after the State Financial Inspection Agency issued a report that the state has not been paid or the state has not collected more than 210 million. lv. Since the budget is claimed to have been damaged by such colossal amounts, who is responsible for this? This is not about criminal liability. There's a prosecutor there, there's a court, let them decide who's wrong, who's right. We are talking here about political responsibility because, after the scandal went off, everyone covered up the National Revenue Agency, the Ministry of Finance. There's only one Gambling Commission left, which, as we can see, will eventually take the fall, spoken to the people. The political issue here is: does the Ministry of Finance, in particular the Minister of Finance, be responsible for the actions of the Chairman of the Gambling Commission, whom he appointed and who, by the way, was previously head of the National Revenue Agency? Is the Minister responsible for the actions of the other Commissioners, which he has also appointed, on a proposal from other state institutions? And is the Prime Minister responsible for his minister's actions when he says he lacks so much money in the state budget? How will each of the above-mentioned assume his political responsibility? This is the debate that we have to have here and now from this political tribune. These are questions to be answered by the government. This is worthy political behaviour, but the practice of recent years has proved that this, unfortunately, will hardly happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u65	Thank you, dear Mr. Tishev. A line? Dear Mr. Simeonov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Tishev, you are a relatively young politician, but you have mastered the primos of manipulation quite successfully, I can clearly state it here from this tribune. Here you will now receive from the management an answer to all your questions. First of all, not exactly in the order of your exposure, but to those who are not true. Our bill has not been submitted before the State and Financial Inspection Agency's report. The same applies to our bill in 2018. Then there were absolutely no revelations and then, unfortunately, this bill could not pass. Secondly, why do you reach for the lottery and not hit the other games, because almost they had a very large share? Not at all. The lottery is with the huge over 50%, share of the lottery games. He doesn't have an accurate judgment, but it's what the people who do it tell me. I can assure you, in fact, what I can assure you is that the most elementary analysis of any medium-intelligent person would come to the conclusion that two types of players are engaged in gambling, one being active, the other passive. The active ones are those who go on purpose in a particular place in a closed room, casino, bingo and so on, to play, put in the money they have collected purposefully. Quite another are all the other layers of society on which coupons are pushed, almost as change, which are subjected to daily temptation and which will never, notice, enter into a casino. No grandma, no child will enter a casino. You know that very well, but in this case you bring a manipulation. Why? Because everything is not possible at once. And finally, what's the hurry? Don't you know why you're in such a hurry? Because it's dangerous.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u67	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. There's no second line. Mr. Tishev, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Simeonov, in my speech I put some extremely principled questions, including the question of responsibility to which I did not receive an answer. This one first. Secondly, in 2018, your bill had very good ideas, but there was no case of monopolising or holding a gambling sector at all. Why not the others? There is no answer here and no answer has been given. Yes, I accept that at the pandemic, as you have previously expressed in the reasons of the Bill, there must be some reaction to the tickets, but this was dangerous both in 2017, and in 2018, and in early 2019, but you did not then submit this bill that we are currently looking at. We can't wake up one day and say, look, this is a big problem after three years, four years is happening to us in front of our eyes and everything is right, okay? In the same way is the behavior of the Ministry of Finance or the Gambling Commission.. Five years is no problem. By the way, here and the National Revenue Agency has control functions Nothing! Five years of silence and now suddenly a big problem, give extreme measures how to solve the problem. How are we going to solve this when the lotteries practically stay, only the state will? Will people keep rubbing tickets? They'll keep rubbing tickets. That's the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u69	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. We continue with the speeches. Any other speeches? Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u70	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Tishev, I will blow up my right to speak so that the hall and society will not remain with the impression that some of your questions are not answered. With regard to the responsibility of the institutions. You are right to ask this question, but you are right and to want to seek responsibility as a Member of the National Assembly or as a political force. For example, I cannot recall the time since the beginning of the 44th National Assembly you asked a question or parliamentary question in this direction if you were sure that there were such abuses, problems and legal violations. I don't know, if I'm wrong, correct me. I haven't heard you have any questions, questions or anything in that direction. The second suggestion or accusation you are making is that there was no proposal for detention in the Bill in 2018. Yeah, but it was the same idea. The idea was to limit the mass supply, as this is the most dangerous of all gambling activity at the present time in Bulgaria. Again, I repeat: not so many places where a gambling game is offered to be played by people who are aiming to do it in indoor rooms.Bingo halls and so on, where they are going quite consciously, they have allocated the corresponding money for this purpose, and quite differently is the supply that is mass. The idea is the same, but when we prepared this bill in 2018, the situation was not what it was now. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] No, it wasn't, it wasn't, it wasn't. What is different in general in the gambling situation is that less than a month before we submitted the bill, a scandal erupted from which the information, which has not yet been proven by the prosecution and the court, has not been proven by the prosecution and the court, for a massive damage of 250 million. lv. This created the relevant public environment and environment to submit this bill. That's the explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u71	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. - What's the line? I won't. Personal explanation, Mr. Tishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u72	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Simeonov, to the question: why have we and personally not tabled changes in the legislation in this National Assembly, since there is such a problem? Mr. Simeonov, we still trust the state institutions and after so many years they say that there is no problem until this famous report of the State Financial Inspection Agency, which appeared a few days ago or a few weeks ago, what legislative changes? In the Ministry of Finance, everything is fine.. all taxpayers, whether in the gambling sector, pay their taxes and fees, the Gambling Commission signs the accounts of lottery operators, the National Revenue Agency has no problems. What legislative changes should we make? Why did you bring in the bill now? You even stated in your statement that after the report it had become clear. That is, you cannot expect us to make changes when the institutions that are governed by you, by the government, say that everything is fine in the country, in this sector. Now all of a sudden in a week or two, you see, nothing's okay, let's solve this problem. That's the reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u73	Thank you. Any other speeches? Mr. Tarnovalysky, come in. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u74	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! To the Budget and Finance Committee, the drafters said they had questions for the Gambling Commission. The answer was that they couldn't be there because the prosecution was visiting. Today, not only is the Commission not present, but there is no representative of the Ministry of Finance. I had a specific question for them regarding the need to notify this bill. Mr. Simeonov spoke here about their proposals since the summer of 2018. Yes, they were different That made a lot of sense, and fair was the demands. The Budget and Finance Committee has decided that the Ministry of Finance will send this bill for notification. What happened, Mr. Simeonov? Do you have any information? I am a Commissioner, I have no information. Is there anyone who can answer that?! Is there a notification from the Ministry of Finance that they're not here to answer? Should these proposals be sent back for notification? I think we should, it's absolutely necessary! These are important problems and this is one of the reasons to abstain. There are others and colleagues have made them very clear. It's really not clear why he's in such a hurry. The bill is important. The problems you are putting in place are serious. Yes, gambling is a disease, and we need to do everything we can to fight this vice in society, but I don't think this is the road. Between first and second readings, we will also have the opportunity to submit our proposals. In the end, at the moment there is a public discussion bill amending the gambling of the Ministry of Finance. Why don't you synchronize things, you're part of the management? Maybe in a month we'll see changes to the Gambling Act again. This is not a good legislative practice and will do nothing good in this area because it is part of the economy. There is a great deal of talk here about the control which was apparently lacking from the Commission, which must be fully carried out but also lacks control from the Ministry of Finance, which is responsible for this. I ask: how is the budget made and how are the gambling revenues planned for all these years back? How? If someone made them expert and according to the Law, the first year after the changes had to be understood that something was wrong with the fees that private operators had to pay. The problems are many and that is why we need to be carefully solved so that we do not have even bigger problems as a state and as a society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u75	Thank you, dear Mr. Turnovallisky. Are there any lines? Mr. Simeonov, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u76	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The last questions will be answered in the form of a reply.. Not exactly dissent, but if I may. Notification [[shows it]] has been sent on 12 September 2018 and the answer has been received in February or March 2019. This is the fate of the call it is positive. However, you should leave the right of the importer to decide at what time to submit a new bill, to extend it, as is done in this case, or to insist on examining this one. There were other objective reasons for election, and so on. Our assessment was that now was the time, especially after the scandal went off. I'm telling you right now! On the question of why is the Finance Ministry's Bill not synchronized with our Bill? Well, they're not synchronized. I can't answer that. They have their own bill. He is currently in a public discussion for a month, then he will join the National Assembly Commission. This is another bill that is not related to ours, in the sense that other are the articles, paragraphs that change. It's not consistent, and I think it's more than obvious to everyone, and it proves there's no sync. Of course there is no synchronization between what we offer and the Ministry of Finance. They are in their right to offer a broader text that is already related to the very body of management of gambling and control, as well as some other things. I can't answer the other questions because they're in executive power and they don't belong here in my opinion. There is another way to present them in Friday's question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u77	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. Second line? I can't see. It's a hole, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u78	Dear Mr. Simeonov, I can't agree with you that they don't belong here. This is where they belong, because we are commenting specifically on this specific bill. You say you have a notification from the beginning of last year. I am a member of the Committee on Budget and Finance, I have voted for such a notification, but I have not received it. I'd appreciate it if you'd give it to me so I can meet her. The new bill must also be notified under the same procedure, according to the same requirements. That's what I said, and that's what the Ministry of Finance was supposed to answer, which was supposed to be here today, or shouldn't there be such a notification? There has to be. It's mandatory! We all know that.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u79	Thank you. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Baychev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u80	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Simeonov, I address you as an importer. Because you asked a question to Mr. Gechev: exactly what are our motives, for which we will not support the bill you have tabled, yes, unfortunately, we see gaps and therefore we will abstain. What kind of gaps do we see? I listened carefully to your position and the statement you made. I must tell you that as a whole and as a principle I agree with you and with your reasons, but I think they are insufficient and do not correspond to the objectives of the Law. Why am I telling you this? Yes, I agree, as I said, and I support you, that the nation, adolescents, must be protected from such temptations and addictions. However, I have bothered to talk to two psychologists about whether treatment of lottery - dependent patients has been conducted. I was given a very interesting answer: there is no treatment for a patient with a lottery dependence, or at least no one has sought help from a lottery dependence. On the contrary, they are sought for dependence on card games, dice, slot machines, one-armed bandits and any other machine, but there is no such dependence. I also believe that the implementation of the Bill is quite limited and is relative to one part of the gambling activity. I would like your project to be more extensive, to be designed on other gambling activities - gaming halls, casinos, as well as to call them, any other such halls. Why am I saying this? You can very easily check that in these halls, in addition to being played, another criminal activity is generated. Very often in the halls, around the halls are sold drugs, prostitution is offered, robberies are carried out, illegal interest rate activity is also carried out. So we could expand this bill and work in a broader direction to curb criminal activity and at all the harmful effects of gambling in a wider aspect. The other thing I want to tell you, too. You have listed several countries where gambling or lottery tickets and so on are nationalized and are a monopoly of the state. I agree! That's probably true! This, however, allows it their basic law.. The Constitution. With us, the provision of art. 18, para. 4 of the Constitution indicates: The Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, By judgment No 2 of 6 February 1996 in Constitutional Case No 26 of 1995, the Constitutional Court held that in art. 18, para. 4 of the Constitution are listed in detail the economic activities in which the State can establish a monopoly. Also, in Decision No 6 of 19 September 2000 in Constitutional Case No 8 of 2000, the Constitutional Court concluded on the cited Decision No 2, namely: the scope of the state monopoly is set out in detail. The comprehensive listing of the activities for which the establishment of a state monopoly is permissible excludes the possibility to establish one for other activities. One of the objectives of this provision is to prevent monopolism from the cases referred to therein. In other words, we are about to take a decision that will, in practice, be contrary to the Constitution. On the other hand, I think that, as a National Assembly, we should create laws and legislation at all, which is predictable and consistent. I say this because there is also a provision in the Gambling Act that states that in order to issue a gambling license, the person concerned must make investments of 1 million. lv. We are giving a bad signal, broadcasting in terms of economic subjects with this inconsistent policy of ours. On the other hand, Mr. Slavcho Atanasov rightly noted that the State Gambling Commission employs people who find it difficult to make decisions, feel threatened, scared and so on. However, the work of this committee is precisely to carry out checks. That's what she's called an obligation. The question is whether this state commission has found any irregularities, has it submitted any signals, because on the website of the State Gambling Commission it is explicitly written that it works and corresponds with DGBOP, with the Ministry of Interior and so on. Now there will have to be some monitoring authority again... whether it will be the State Gambling Commission or whatever we call it in such a case will this safety be provided to them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u81	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u82	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear colleague, not everyone is measured and not everyone is in a wonderful mood to submit a bill against which there is a composition of at least 50 cars of money per year. I mean it figuratively, but on purpose! To your question: why must you hurry? Your whole statement was: let's take a look now, let's see now. You've made the argument with the Constitution, although there is another rule that I'm going to tell you right now. You made the argument with the Constitution, in a manner of speaking: let's beat the ball. Colleague, look! We are facing a huge, huge influence of people in this country. These people will not stop affecting us as MPs, not only on the Gambling Commission. Believe me! The slower this thing gets, the more pressure it's gonna be. You will see that even media campaigns will be organized and so on and so forth. With three billion leva, my friend, you can buy an entire country. I mean it the most! A whole country can be bought! [[Heckling]] Don't shout! This thing has happened in other countries as well. Three billion a year! Not for ten years. So with so much money, things are dangerous, as Mr. Simeonov said. That's why we're in a hurry because they're dangerous. The second thing you're telling me about the Constitution. Look, there's one rule. There are great lawyers here. Since Roman times, he who has the rights has the right and the right to take them away. That's the truth. From antiquity, these rights, the lottery, the games of happiness, as they were called, check historically, have always belonged to the people! Sometimes she, with her discretion, can provide them to a private, usually a favorite of someone close to power. But he can always take them away. He can always take those rights away! Now, I'm not gonna hide the coworkers, part of the gambling, and I'm out of bounds...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u83	Your line has gone on too long, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u84	...they crossed all limits when 210 million leva were not in the treasury.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u85	Thank you. Mr. Simeonov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u86	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Baychev, first of all, I would not be obliged to interpret the Constitution. Before we submitted the bill, we carried out appropriate consultations and received an answer that this was not a violation of the Constitution. I think there's a Constitutional Court, constitutional judges. If you think it's necessary, call them, see what happens. At our discretion and according to our consultations, there is no violation of the Constitution. That's one thing. On the second point, you are right that this proposal, this amendment to the Law we are proposing, does not solve all the problems of gambling in any way, but in our opinion, solves the main problem of gambling, this is the mass pandemic, falling depending on the gambling disease, which is a disease, as I said, according to the World Health Organization. But for example, if you were willing, you could by now make the relevant proposals related to casinos related to illegal activity with the additional criminal activities that are being carried out around casinos. I don't know why, perhaps by accident, you missed out on the most important thing: there's the most scary thing about money laundering, that's the crime of budgeting and the whole country, but you didn't do it. I suppose for the same reasons as Mr. Tishev, you have had absolute confidence in the institutions, which is why in the past two years you have made four votes of distrust because you have had great confidence in the institutions. Somehow this behavior doesn't add up. I think that further protection in this direction is beginning to raise doubts about the financial dependence of the entire group. I'm sorry. There's 3 billion in there. 200 million. ? enough money to buy MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u87	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Is there a third line? A hole, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u88	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the Parliament, honourable Replicators! Dear Mr. Atanasov, I'll start with your line. I want to tell you this: you may be right. The person who holds the power to grant licenses, to revoke licenses and so on, but the rule of law defines something else when your license is revoked, you can appeal this decision to the court in question and not simply be taken away from you. It is in this direction that I said that we should make consistent and predictable legislation. As for the next line about my money-laundering pass. Yes, Mr. Simeonov, I missed it, it's my fault. Now I'm fixing it and I'm saying, yes, there's probably money laundering there. But I'm worried about something else you both claim. You claim that we are faced with a lot of money, that is true, we can be bought and we blame each other on who has been bought or there is some financial dependence. I don't know, maybe I'm too insignificant as a MP because no one has ever offered me any financial benefit or profit if I vote in a certain way. In me, however, this concerns your doubt. It's nice if someone has offered you something or you know about someone else, to make it public. Otherwise you create a psychosis, like in games. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u89	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Mr. Apostolov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u90	Please extend the group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u91	They're already extended.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u92	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! From what you've said, I understand that you saw it last week, too. Because this problem with Pandora's box must have been opened by some of you in this room 2013 [[The President signals that time has expired.]] That's what I'm gonna end up with.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u93	Time's up, thanks. Does he have a back? I can't see. Let's continue with our speech. Mr. Kutev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u94	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I actually have two problems with this bill. The first problem is whether the word "nationalisation" applicable at all because such accusations were heard in the Chamber. If we strengthen state regulation or state participation in a particular business, especially gambling, I think that's a good thing. Another question is that I do not understand why we are only doing this in the area of lottery games, which is a small part of the game, which I think is not the most harmful part of gambling, because with lottery games you cannot lose your apartment or car, while, unfortunately, I know people who lose these things in other types of gambling in Bulgaria, especially in slots. I mean, if we're going to bring order and control into these things, we have to go from those things that are most harmful to people, and I think the most harmful to people are the places where you can really lose your property and that of your parents. There are such places throughout Bulgaria, in every village. This is one of the things that I would personally recommend to you by going over these sharp boundaries and steps, let's expand the scope. Why do you only stop at the lotteries? Let's make it much wider. In this regard, I guarantee you that I will make a proposal between first and second readings to see what your reaction will be, because I will be interested. Especially the importers would be interested in how they would react. The second, with which I have a very difficult problem, this is the moment when it happens. Gentlemen, at the moment that the Gambling Act is being examined in Parliament, which clearly concerns private interests, no one seems to doubt that, at the same time, the prosecution, the DANS or I do not know what other special units are in the offices of those who are actually involved in this law. I don't know how you manage to get him to this synchronization, but the joint examination of a Bill that concerns interest in billions, the presence of SANS and the secret services, and obviously, in my opinion, for the purpose of arrest, tonight we'll find out what they wanted to do, but the fact that at the moment these people are running searches or whatever's going on, we'll figure it out tonight. This is an act, excuse me, an organized crime group. This is about trying to take down businesses. I tell you that I have never met with Vasil Bozhkov, I have never spoken to him and I have no interest in defending him, but what you are doing right now is very easy in the ears of all other businessmen in Bulgaria, probably including those who should be standing in the front row and not standing. I don't know how far this could go. I have a problem with that. I don't know if you have it, but what we're doing right now has severe consequences. I hope you understand them and I hope you know you can handle them.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u95	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Are there lines? I won't. Mr. Kostadinov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u96	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Help your colleagues Patriots.. colleagues from GERB do not take part, the issue is very important, they are the only ones of the Ambrazur. With regard to motives, four things. When rubbing lottery tickets is performed by privates, it is a vice. As I read in some of the reasons that are not presented here but presented to the media, they generate a tendency to gamble. You see, however, when the state sells these tickets, it becomes a benefactor from vice. With all due respect, that can't be an argument we can take seriously. If it's private, rubbing tickets is a vice, if it's stately, it's a virtue. Secondly, who is the author of extremely subtle psychological observation, it may be socio-psychological, that keno, bingo and what was more? gaming, to a lesser extent create gambling intensity or attitude for gambling and involve people in gambling. With all due respect, that's an unproven fact. Thirdly, the talks with experts as part of the motivations that casinos, I call them hovering, that these hoverings have no bearing on the process of setting up gambling dependence, it is shameful for me to claim from this tribune and not include them here in this bill. Fourth, it was extremely valuable to me the historical comparison of the age of antiquity and what the state of gambling was then. But I have to ask, are we going to make innuendoes, transformations, expropriation, and all the--the ones you can think of, or are we going to make regulations? If you make an idea of regulation, we will support you. If you want us to limit the places around schools, schools, if you want us to limit advertising, to limit the pressure on the population of gambling addiction, we are with you. But in my opinion, the way you recorded it, that's not the point. I think there is a wording with you that states that it is absolutely possible for the State Commission and the Chair of this committee to license further other than the state places or territories or establishments or sites, at least that's how I read it, in this bill. In the end, I would like to ask the following: which state is the state of Bulgaria or the state of Lottery? I'll tell you why I'm asking. Today we wanted a vote of no confidence in this government that governs this country. Unfortunately, we do not see a direct consequence between the functions of the state and what the government does. You want and you have confidence, honourable importers, of this country, which just by a hair failed to give Ginka Varbakova a third of the energy distribution and energy supply, you want to give this country, which two or three years later slaps itself on the forehead and says: well, they 250 million are gone, or do you want to give this country, which does not know whether it will provide basic powers to its citizens in the Constitution and has taken up gambling?! This is the state of Lottery, not the state of Bulgaria! When you prove that Bulgaria's first competitive advantage is the gambling business, we will sit down and regulate it together with you, but this country is doing its best not to have a controlling package in the new project of Belene, this country, which I do not know how many times has given up a gas flow to pass through Bulgaria, and now I do not know if we have missed the train. We can't have the state here. It's not gonna be a government business. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Actually, I can, and I'm done with that, there's a highway here with European funding. There's no one here! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] There's no water for Pernik here! So it's not a state business. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u97	- What's the line? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Gambling Act with No 054-01-4, submitted by the National Representative Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. Vote 186 MPs: 116, against 2, abstention 68. The bill was passed in the first vote. Let's continue with: FIRST VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE INDEPENDENT FINANCIAL AUDIT. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u98	Dear Mr. Chairman, please allow Mrs. Marinella Petrova to be admitted to the Chamber. Deputy Minister of Finance and Mrs. Natalia Cherneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u99	I shall put to the vote the proposal for admission made in this House. Vote 126 MPs: for 123, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please invite the admissions. Continue with the presentation of the Report, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u100	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance on a bill amending and supplementing the Independent Financial Audit Act No 902-01-68, submitted By the Council of Ministers on 10 December 2019, At a regular meeting held on 23 January 2020, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. The meeting was attended by the representatives of the Ministry of Finance: Marinela Petrova The bill was presented by Ms. Marinela Petrova. The proposed amendments and additions to the Act on Independent Financial Audit are mainly related to the need to refine certain texts in the law when transposing the requirements of European legislation, in particular Directive 2006/43/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2006, and Directive 2014/56/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 (OJ L 334, p. 1). Following almost three years of application of the Law, certain provisions need to be supplemented and more detailed in order to effectively fulfil the obligations and responsibilities of the Commission for public oversight of registered auditors resulting from (EU) No 537/2014. In order to achieve the above objectives, it is proposed: - separation of the functions of organising and maintaining the registers of the certified accountants and of the registered auditors, respectively the latter will be organised and maintained by the Commission; - the establishment and maintenance of a register of audit committees, as well as the commitment of their Chairs to their respective responsibilities; - ensuring that the Commission is able to inform the audit committees of undertakings of public interest of the results of inspections carried out and investigations of their auditors; - a change in the time limits for the rotation of auditors in the statutory audit of the financial statements of undertakings in the public interest, including the possibility of extending the audit period in the case of joint audit; - regulation of a procedure for the definitive withdrawal of a quality control activity delegated by the CCNRO to the IDEC of the statutory auditors, non-verifying reports of undertakings in the public interest; - the introduction of an opportunity to conclude agreements for the termination of administrative criminal cases for infringements of the regulation and the Law. The proposed changes will ensure additional security of information by direct implementation by the Commission of the registration and discharge activities of auditors in the register. Additional guarantees are provided that the profession of registered auditors is exercised by persons with the necessary knowledge and skills. Effective mechanisms for monitoring the market of the audit services of undertakings of public interest and an assessment of the activity of audit committees are provided; to increase the effectiveness of administrative criminal proceedings and to facilitate the disciplinary penalty procedure for registered auditors by the professional organisation. The Bill provides for the annulment of Decree No 1074 on the limitation of the holding of reporting, material responsibility and other positions by convicted persons, as well as the amendment of Decree No 2242 on both of 1987 for free zones. The proposed draft act will have no impact on the state budget. Following the discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Independent Financial Audit Act, No 902-01-68, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 December 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u101	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Tornowaliski, come in. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u102	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This bill is not as interesting as the Gambling Act, but, of course, it is very important. All the changes that have been proposed that we will adopt will certainly improve legislation in this area and we fully support them. I am making this statement to support the changes in their majority, to congratulate the two parties in this process, namely the Surveillance Commission and the Institute of Graduated Accountants for Good Communication and that there is one legislation that is being made that communicates in this way, but that is why there are still unresolved issues and problems, although small and minor, which we may debate at second reading and make proposals in this direction. And here I will give an example of something that I do not agree with and I believe that the importer has no reason to propose it, namely the change in the register of registered accountants to switch from the Institute of Graduated Accountants to the Commission, which is the supervisory authority. After all, the IDES is the professional organisation, it is responsible for the activity, and the established State Commission for Supervision of them has exactly supervisory functions. I believe that in this spirit and in this direction are the requirements of the directive, but now I will not waste your time and quote the directive. We will do this between first and second readings by making our proposals, which we will motivate both in the Commission and here in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u103	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. Are there any lines? Statements? I don't see anyone else who wants to make speeches. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Act on Independent Financial Audit by No 902-01-68, submitted by the Council of Ministers. They voted 121 MPs: 120, against none, abstention 1. The bill was passed in the first vote. Let's continue with: THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE UNIVERSE ECONOMIC AND TRADE AGREEMENT BETWEEN CANADA, OF THE ONE COUNTRY, AND THE EUROPEAN UNION AND HIS MEMBER STATES, OF ANOTHER COUNTRY, REFERRED TO IN BRUXEL ON 30 October 2016. Report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Here you are, dear Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u104	Colleagues, there's a hall pass coming up. Please don't come out! On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of our Rules of Procedure, please give the consent of: Lilia Ivanova Deputy Minister of Economy, Ruslana Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u105	I shall put to the vote the proposed admission to this House. Mr. Kanev, unusually, but you have prepared an extremely extensive, extensive, detailed, and I suggest an interesting report and you will read slowly something has happened. Vote 107 MPs: for 103, there is no objection, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please invite those admitted to the courtroom. Continue with the presentation of the report, dear Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u106	♪ I can't believe under the Law on the ratification of the Comprehensive economic and trade agreement between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its countries Member States, of the other part, signed on 30 October 2016 in Brussels, the Kingdom of Belgium, No 902-02-17, submitted by Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019 The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 22 January 2020 examined and discussed the Draft Law on ratification of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, signed on 30 October 2016 in Brussels, No 902-02-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Economy, Lilia Ivanova, Deputy Minister, Ruslana Stoyanova, Head of the Department of World Trade Organization and other international economic organizations and Kiril Yurukov, Chief Expert; from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: Margarita Ganeva, Director of the Directorate of Foreign Affairs, Zlati Kazarski, Head of the Department of International Law and Law of the European Union and representatives of the social partners, of the Association of Solidarna Bulgaria and Canadian-Bulgarian business network. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Ivanova. In 2016, the Bulgarian government took a decision at an undisputed meeting to sign the so-called SETA agreement between the two entities. On 7 July 2016, the representatives of Bulgaria and Romania supported the Agreement at the COREPER meeting. On 20 July 2016, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism heard the position of the Hungarian Parliament on this agreement. On 16 September 2016, the European Economic and Social Committee issued an opinion on the Agreement. On 14 October 2016, the Constitutional Court of Germany authorised the government to ratify the Agreement. On 30 October 2016, the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) between the Member States of the European Union and Canada was signed in Brussels. In April 2018, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria issued a decision to ask President Radev that the Agreement could be adopted by the Bulgarian Parliament with a simple majority of those present. By Decision No 375 of 28 June 2019 the Council of Ministers proposed to the National Assembly the Law on ratification of the Agreement. 14 Member States have so far ratified the Agreement. According to the importer, the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement gives the following advantages: - Eliminating customs duties on imports of goods originating in the European Union and Canada immediately after the signing or gradually within 7 years of almost all goods being imported from industrial goods, 100% on imports of fishery products. Canada will remove the duties of 90.9% of its agricultural products and the European Union will remove 92.2% of the duties of its agricultural products. The products that will not be liberalized are: chicken and turkey meat, eggs and egg products. Limited imports will apply to beef, pork and canned maize. - All rules of origin are based to the maximum extent on the standards and rules of the European Union. The rules for cars, fish and certain processed agricultural products make it difficult to comply with the stricter European rules. - A mechanism for reciprocal certification by the certification bodies is envisaged, according to Canadian and European requirements and standards respectively. - The sanitary and phytosanitary measures in the SETA are derived from the World Trade Organisation's sanitary and phytosanitary control agreement. - The Agreement will not require a change in European Union legislation on food and GMOs safety. The Agreement is not intended to open the European Union market for GMOs. - With regard to services of public interest Bulgaria and the other Member States of the European Union have included additional reserves excluding activities related to social services, public health and education. - The agreement provides exclusive access to the Canadian public procurement market for the European Union. There are only two sectors in which there is a restriction by a Canadian country in the field of energy services and public transport in two provinces of Ontario and Quebec. - With regard to the investment court to resolve disputes between an investor and a State, any compensation due to an investor will be based on objective assessments of the arbitration tribunal and will not be greater than the loss suffered by the investor. Members of the arbitration will not be appointed by investors in a dispute but by the Parties to the Agreement. - Canada has accepted that all geographical indications of foodstuffs proposed by the European Union will be protected at a comparable level to those provided by European legislation. - The Agreement ensures that the objectives and market access under the Agreement are not limited or affected by the activities of state-owned enterprises, monopolies and undertakings with special rights and privileges. - After the initiation of the provisional application of the Agreement there is a 19.6% increase in the trade of Bulgaria with Canada. - The Agreement is also expected to have an effect on the extension of the export list to Canada. - Direct Canadian investments in Bulgaria are not extremely huge volumes. It's 61 million. Euros so far. - The Agreement does not contain provisions to affect the cultural identity of European countries. In its opinion, the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria supports the Agreement and proposes to give stricter definitions of investment in the agreements by excluding concessions and rejecting the definition of services of public economic interest which deviate from definitions in European Union legislation and allowing the application of social, environmental and innovation criteria in the award of public contracts and concessions in accordance with EU rules. In a written statement, the Association of Solidarna Bulgaria addressed the fact that this is essentially not a trade agreement, but a political agreement. He insists on a broad public debate and holding a referendum on the subject. The most important potential effects of the Comprehensive Agreement would be the following, according to Solidarna Bulgaria: - Obstacles are created to ensure the right to association, to settle disputes over unpaid remuneration, to allow inspectors to work. - It will increase the gap between the pay of qualified and unqualified labor. - The mechanism under the Ratchet Agreement allows only an extension of liberalisation, but not a return of public services in public hands. - The agreement takes the approach of the negative list. It differs substantially from traditional Union agreements that are based on a system of positive lists where the parties explicitly list the sectors and subsectors to which they undertake to be open to competition. In conclusion, the Association of Solidarna Bulgaria is calling for the Agreement not to be approved. In its opinion, KT "Support" insists that there should be an opportunity to participate in the establishment of a national position in the formation of trade and economic agreements to which the European Union is a party. Economic agreements have labour and social aspects that are traditionally underestimated. The main considerations and facts about SETA are: - The purely commercial part of the Agreement has limited effect as customs tariffs were radically removed in the 1990s. - The supranational arbitrage.. they drive the work of the trade unions, of the association of employees, of the organization of strikes. - Real labor protection is weak. Violation of labour rights in SETA will only lead to a process of discussion and recommendations. - The results of the implementation of the SETA so far have not confirmed the optimistic expectations with which the Agreement has been promoted for nearly two years. There are no significant economic effects in our country's favor. SETA cannot in any way be regarded as an agreement-model to future trade relations because it is to the detriment of workers in the European Union and Canada, to the detriment of small and medium-sized national businesses. In the subsequent discussion, the public representative Rumen Gechev expressed his opinion that it is not at all about Canada's relations, but about the United States of America's European Union, because the US companies registered in Canada have all the rights under this agreement. When a small country, with the same economic development, has access to a large country, a market with the same economic development, it is the European Union, the smaller country wins. We cannot trade our membership in the OECD and put our national economy at risk. The concerns about GMOs and fracking are also perfectly justified, which has recently been banned in Britain by law. The political moment of ratification is also important. National Representative Valeri Simeonov spoke about high-tech Bulgarian productions, which are exported to Canada, France, Italy and Australia. Offered to take into account the positive opinion of the Employers' Organisations Agreement. National Representative Krum Zarkov commented that through this vote Bulgaria will signal how it will understand the future of organised world trade and globalisation for the development of the world. There is no doubt that the Agreement will lead to serious sectoral shifts, which will be able to lead to an increase in lasting unemployment in the European aspect. There is no country that, thanks to free trade, has leveled its standard with the one with which it trades freely. Because free trade prevents national states from making their own rules. National Representative Daniela Saveklieva, arguing with the support of the Agreement with the written opinions of the Ministry of Economy and of AICB, declared support for the ratification of the SETA by the MPs in the Commission by GERB. People's representative Stoyan Mirchev spoke about the fact that the main pillar in the business are the workers, and until now the SETA is not so worrying for the employers, it is worrying for the workers in some aspects. Deputy Minister Ivanova answered questions. After the end of the discussion and voting with results: 11 votes, 7 votes against....................... 7 votes against.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Asks the National Assembly to adopt the Draft Law on the ratification of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, signed on 30 October 2016 in Brussels.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u107	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. We are continuing with the Foreign Policy Committee report. You have the floor, Mrs. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u108	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Comprehensive economic and trade agreement between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, signed on 30 October 2016 in Brussels, No 902-02-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019. At a meeting held on 10 July 2019, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, signed on 30 October 2016 in Brussels, the Kingdom of Belgium. The reasons for the bill were presented by the Deputy Minister of Economy Lilia Ivanova and Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Georg Georgiev. The negotiations between the European Union and Canada on the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement were held between May 2009 and September 2014. They ended at the summit between the European Union and Canada in Ottawa on 26 September 2014, after which the text was subject to legal review and translation procedures in all official languages of the European Union and Canada. This process shall continue until July 2016, when the European Commission formally submits to the Council of the European Union an Agreement and proposals for decisions on the signing, provisional application and conclusion of the Agreement. The Council of the European Union approves decisions on the signing and provisional application of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement, from now on I will call it SETA, in October 2016, allowing it to be signed on 30 October 2016. The Bulgarian Government approves the Agreement by Decision No 899 of the Council of Ministers on 24 October 2016. The agreement is of shared competence, which means that the Member States of the European Union are parties to it and should approve it in accordance with their internal requirements and procedures. The Agreement shall be applied provisionally from 21 September 2017, subject to the provisional application decision approved by the Council of the European Union, which shall cover all provisions, other than those relating to the protection of investments, the settlement of disputes between an investor and a State and provisions relating to the protection of intellectual property, employment and the protection of the environment which fall within the national competence of the Member States of the European Union. The provisions remaining outside the provisional application of the SETA will enter into force after ratification by the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria. During the negotiations, the Republic of Bulgaria achieved a visa-free regime with Canada. The Bulgarian state raised the issue of Canada's visa regime against Bulgarian citizens. In the autumn of 2016, after successful contacts at the Prime Minister level, an agreement was reached with the Canadian side to phase out visa restrictions for Bulgarians on 1 December 2017. The removal from Canada on 1 December 2017 of visa requirements for Bulgarian citizens allows Bulgarian businesses and citizens to take full advantage of the preferences of the Agreement. SETA between the European Union and Canada is expected to promote and improve trade and economic relations, as well as deepen cooperation between Bulgaria and Canada, including ensuring high standards in the realization of trade relations not only in the field of trade in goods and services, but also in terms of investment, intellectual property, rules of origin and others. The agreement establishes the conditions for economic activity to be carried out within the framework of clear and transparent regulation by state authorities, while at the same time the right to regulation of public interest is laid down as its fundamental principle. The European Union and Canada retain their ability to achieve legitimate public objectives in areas such as public health, safety, the environment, public morality and the promotion and protection of cultural diversity. At the same time, it should be noted that the Agreement will not impose a change in legislation on genetically modified organisms and will not aim to open the European Union market for GMOs. Furthermore, it will also be irrelevant to the use of shale gas exploration and extraction technologies. These issues will remain, as until now, the prerogative of the governments of the Member States. It is foreseen that the customs duties for 99 per cent of the tariff numbers up to seven years are completely abolished, and for 98 per cent the liberalisation is immediate and is applied as of the beginning of the provisional application of the Agreement, i.e. 21 September 2017. In addition to the tariff liberalisation, the simplification of customs rules and procedures, as well as rules of origin, by which the export of Bulgarian goods to Canada will be facilitated is agreed. During the first nine months of the provisional application of the Agreement, exports of goods from the European Union to Canada increased by 7%. Preliminary data for 2018 showed an increase of 19.6% in trade with Canada as a result mainly of significant export growth. Bulgarian exports increased 38% compared to 2017. So far, the direct capitals made by Canada from Bulgaria are concentrated mainly in the industry and outsourcing of the business processes, and Bulgaria seeks to encourage the development of investment cooperation in the field of energy, high technology and infrastructure. Given the development of the Bulgarian economy and the level of competitiveness of Bulgarian exports, an increase in exports of goods is expected to occur in the Canadian market at the moment. The main sectors where potential export growth is expected are light industry, textiles and clothing, food industry, machinery and electrical equipment, optical and medical instruments, chemical and pharmaceutical products and other non-commercial household goods. An additional prerequisite to be taken into account for the potential of SETA is the fact that much of the production capacities developed in the country supply components to other Member States of the European Union producing the final product. The agreement differs from the traditional approach to resolving disputes between an investor and a country, creating an independent, impartial and permanent investment court. The members of this arbitration will not be appointed by investors in a dispute, but by the Parties to the Agreement, i.e. the Government of Canada, the European Union and the Governments of the Member States. Strict ethical rules shall be laid down for those Members who ensure their impartiality and independence by means of a code of conduct of the members of the arbitration panel. The other main element is that for the first time an appeal mechanism is included. Member States that have already ratified the Agreement have already been listed in the Leading Commission Report. Canada has ratified the Agreement which has enabled its provisional application. The Agreement is subject to ratification by the Law of the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion held and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 12 votes for the European Parliament, 5 votes against the Council and 2 votes for the European Union and its Member States, on the other hand, signed on 30 October 2016 in Brussels, No 902-02-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u109	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. Colleagues, we're interrupting work for 30 minutes. Please be on time to continue the meeting. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u110	We're continuing the hearing. A report of the Committee on Legal Affairs is coming up. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u111	♪ I can't believe on the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, signed on 30 October 2016 in Brussels, the Kingdom of Belgium, No 902-02-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019. At its meeting on 10 July 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law on the ratification of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, signed on 30 October 2016 in Brussels, the Kingdom of Belgium, No 902-02-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019. The meeting was attended by: from the Ministry of Economy Mrs. Lilia Ivanova Deputy Minister, Ms. Tatiana Petrova State Expert at the Directorate of Foreign Affairs and Mrs. Katerina Nenova General Legal Consult at the Directorate of Legal Affairs. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mrs. Ivanova, who pointed out that the draft proposed ratifying the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada and the European Union and its Member States, signed on 30 October 2016 in Brussels. She noted that the negotiations between Canada and the European Union were conducted between May 2009 and September 2014, ending at the summit on 26 September 2014 and adding that the Agreement was approved by a decision of the Council of Ministers on 24 October 2014. The Deputy Minister indicated that the rules governing trade between the European Union and Canada cover trade in goods and services, protection of intellectual property, public procurement, rules of origin, protection of investment, resolution of disputes and others. The Agreement contains guarantees for the protection of fundamental rights, social standards, the right to regulation by the government, the protection of the environment, the health and the safety of consumers. The customs duties for 99 per cent of the tariff numbers are fully abolished and tariff quotas are introduced for milk products and, as regards chicken and turkey meat, eggs and egg products, the duties shall be maintained. Sustainable use and trade in natural resources such as wood and fishery products are encouraged, commercial and investment practices and schemes and environmental labelling are encouraged. Mrs. Ivanova emphasized on the access granted by the Agreement to the Canadian public procurement market by the EU countries and added that Canada for the first time opened its provinces, territories and municipalities as a foreign partner. She pointed out that the Agreement gives absolute freedom to individual Member States to introduce stronger regulations in their national legislation in sensitive areas such as the social sphere, the environment, the protection of food quality and safety. An independent, impartial and permanent arbitration court shall be established whose members shall be appointed by the Parties to the Agreement and an appeal mechanism shall be provided for. Procedures shall also be provided for the resolution of disputes based on government consultations, as well as a review mechanism by an independent third party with the participation of experts. The Agreement shall be applied on a provisional basis as from 21 September 2017, covering all provisions other than those relating to the protection of investment, the settlement of disputes between an investor and a State and the provisions relating to the protection of intellectual property, employment and the protection of the environment falling within the national competence of the Member States of the European Union. The provisions of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement, which remain outside its provisional application, will enter into force after the ratification of the Agreement by the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria. The discussion was attended by MPs Krum Zarkov and Hamid Hamid. Mr. Zarkov noted that by Decision No 7 of 17 April 2018, the Constitutional Court provides clarity with regard to mixed SETA-type agreements, their impact on Bulgarian legislation, the substance of the provisional application and the role of their ratification. He expressed his opinion that Bulgaria cannot give up its right to create rules in the social sphere and environmental protection, and added that continuous liberalisation leads to social and environmental disaster. Regarding Mr Hamid's question about Bulgaria's efforts in the negotiations on the agreement, the coordination procedure between all stakeholders in Bulgaria was clarified. As a result of the vote held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 14 votes for the Council of Ministers, 7 votes against the European Union and its Member States, on the other hand, signed on 30 October 2016 in Brussels, the Kingdom of Belgium, No 902-02-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u112	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Next, a report from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u113	♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, signed on 30 October 2016 in Brussels, No 902-02-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 10 July 2019 examined and discussed the Draft Law on ratification of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, signed on 30 October 2016 in Brussels, No 902-02-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019. The meeting was attended by Mr. Zhivko Stoyanov, Head of Department at the External Policy Directorate, from the Ministry of Economy, who presented the Law on ratification. Mr. Stoyanov presented the Bill, pointing out that the negotiations between the European Union (EU) and Canada on a Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) took place between May 2009 and September 2014. The end was announced at the EU- Canada Summit in Ottawa on 26 September 2014, after which the text was subject to legal review and translation procedures in all official languages of the EU and Canada. This process continued until July 2016, when the European Commission formally submitted to the Council of the European Union the Agreement and proposals for decisions on the signing, provisional application and conclusion of the Agreement. During the negotiations, the Republic of Bulgaria made every effort to protect the national interest and to ensure and maintain high standards and rules regarding consumer protection, labourers and the national economy. Particularly important in the context of the negotiations, particularly in the provision of services through the presence of individuals, had the visa issue, as only Bulgarian and Romanian citizens were subject to visa regime by Canada. The issue has been raised repeatedly in the course of the negotiations. The agreement consists of preamble, 34 chapters, 49 annexes and 7 declarations. The provisions included lay down rules on trade between the European Union and Canada and cover trade in goods, trade in services, protection of intellectual property, public procurement, rules of origin, protection of investment, dispute resolution, institutional provisions and others. The Agreement contains guarantees that the economic benefits will not be achieved at the expense of fundamental rights, social standards, government regulatory rights, environmental protection or consumer health and safety. According to the European Commission's assessment, access to the market that Canada provides is at least equal to the level in the North American Free Trade Agreement. The European Union, like any other trade agreements it has concluded, has incorporated comprehensive protection measures in the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement with regard to public services. This undoubtedly gives new opportunities for Bulgarian service providers, given that so far they have enjoyed the level of access linked by Canada to the World Trade Organisation. The comprehensive economic and trade agreement contains essential commitments and provisions regarding: commitments to international standards and agreements.. confirming commitments to the International Labour Organisation; guaranteeing the right of each Party to regulate areas relating to employment and the environment; ensuring that standards on employment and environmental protection are not used to limit trade or to liberalise national employment and environment regimes so as to constitute an unauthorized incentive of trade and investment; commitments to promote sustainable use and trade in natural resources such as wood and fishery products; promotion of trade and investment practices and schemes to support sustainable development such as Corporate social responsibility, environmental labelling and fair trade; enhanced monitoring and high level of transparency, including civil society participation; dispute resolution procedures based on government consultations and a review mechanism by an independent third party with the participation of experts whose reports are public. The discussion was attended by the MPs Hasan Ademov, Georgi Gokov, Nadia Klisurska-Zekova, Violeta Zheleva, Milko Nedyalkov, Nikolai Ivanov and Alexander Siddi. The MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria have expressed their strong disagreement with the Bill and said they will not support it, noting that the Agreement affects the interests of the people of labor and the rights of workers are not sufficiently protected, violates the priority of public interests and negatively affects the national economy of the country. People's representative Aleksandar Siddy noted that they agree with a number of criticisms and the group of "United Patriarchs" will refrain from supporting the bill. Vanya Grigorova, Economic Advisor to the President of KT Supporta, noted that the Agreement poses a threat to small and medium-sized businesses, a threat to citizens and workers and represents serious interference in the right of Bulgarian citizens to govern themselves. In response to the questions raised, the representatives of the Ministry of Economy indicated that the Agreement has been applied on a provisional basis since 21 September 2017 and, according to the interim implementing decision approved by the Council of the European Union, it covers all provisions other than those relating to the protection of investments, the settlement of disputes between an investor and a country, and provisions relating to the protection of intellectual property, employment and the protection of the environment which fall under national competence of the Member States of the European Union. The provisions remaining outside the provisional application of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement will enter into force after the ratification of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement by the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria. Some Member States have already ratified the Agreement s Austria, Denmark, Estonia, Spain, Lithuania, Latvia, Malta, Portugal, Croatia, Sweden, Finland, the Czech Republic and the United Kingdom, while others are in the process of ratification. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 10 votes (for) and 7 votes (for) against (of) and 3 votes (of) the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy adopted the following opinion: Asks the National Assembly not to support a Draft Law on the ratification of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, signed on 30 October 2016 in Brussels, No 902-02-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u114	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. The report of the Committee on Environment and Water follows. I take note of the fact that some of the Presidents are at the Chairman's Council. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on the Environment and Water on a bill for ratification of the Comprehensive Economics and a trade agreement between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, signed on 30 October 2016 in Brussels, No 902-02-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019. At a regular meeting held on 5 September 2019, the Environment and Water Commission examined the Draft for ratification of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, signed on 30 October 2016 in Brussels, No 902-02-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Economy: Mr. Lachezar Borisov Deputy Minister, Mrs. Ruslana Stoyanova Head of the Department of World Trade Organization and other international economic relations and Ms. Tatiana Petrova State Expert in the Department of World Trade Organization and other international economic relations. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Lachezar Borisov, who pointed out that the Agreement between Canada and the European Union will encourage and improve the trade and economic relations between Bulgaria and Canada. In his speech Mr. Borisov emphasized on the topics related to the environment. The Agreement contains provisions which deal with the effect of trade and investment between the European Union and Canada in this area. Some of the highest standards of cooperation and promotion of multilateral efforts to protect the environment are envisaged. The principle is adopted that, even if there is no irrefutable scientific evidence of the effect of an economic activity on the environment, the Parties to the Agreement may adopt measures to limit certain activities if there is concern about their environmental impact. The so-called principle of caution, which represents an early-stage environmental and human risk management, is applied before damage is caused. Furthermore, the Agreement will not require any change in legislation on genetically modified organisms and will not open the European Union market for GMOs. European Union legislation on food and GMOs safety, including the assessment of food safety, shall be maintained. In this sense, our country's national policy on this type of product will not change, including the existing prohibitions in our Law on genetically modified organisms. In the subsequent discussion, the people's representative Mr. Atanas Kostadinov commented on the terms of ratification and whether it is not appropriate for the Agreement to undergo a wider discussion, given that it took the European Commission 9 years. Mr. Lachezar Borisov explained that all efforts have been made to protect national interests and there are currently no controversial issues. The President of the Commission Mrs. Ivelina Vassileva thanked for the detailed presentation of the Agreement and the clear clarification that the market for products containing GMOs will not be opened, which was expressed by the Bulgarian public. The agreement provides for strict compliance with national legislation where Bulgaria has been banned since 2010. After the discussion and vote, the Committee on Environment and Water, with 12 votes for...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Asks the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law on the ratification of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, signed on 30 October 2016 in Brussels, No 902-02-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u116	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vasileva. The report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications follows.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u117	Speech!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u118	Let the committee reports be completed. I'd like to point out that you're speaking. You're welcome to present the report, Mr. Tashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u119	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, signed on 30 October 2016 in Brussels, No 902-02-17, submitted By the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019, At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 17 July 2019, a Draft Law on the ratification of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, signed on 30 October 2016 in Brussels, No 902-02-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019. The meeting was attended by Mr. Veliko Zanchev Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mrs. Lilia Ivanova Deputy Minister of Economy, Mr. Danail Chakarov Director of International Law and Law at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The draft was presented by Mrs. Lilia Ivanova, who pointed out that the negotiations between the European Union and Canada on the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement were held between May 2009 and September 2014. Their end was announced at the summit between the European Union and Canada in Ottawa on 26 September 2014, after which the text was subject to legal review and translation procedures in all official languages of the European Union and Canada. This process shall continue until July 2016, when the European Commission formally submits to the Council of the European Union the Agreement and proposals for decisions on the signing, provisional application and conclusion of the Agreement. The comprehensive economic and trade agreement is of shared competence, which means that the Member States of the European Union are parties to it and should approve it in accordance with their internal requirements and procedures. Mrs. Ivanova clarified that the Agreement has been applied on a provisional basis since 21 September 2017, with the exception of provisions relating to the protection of investments, the settlement of disputes between an investor and a country, and provisions concerning the protection of intellectual property, employment and the protection of the environment which fall under national competence of the Member States of the European Union. The provisions remaining outside the provisional application of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement will enter into force after its ratification by the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Agreement includes provisions governing rules on trade in goods and services, protection of intellectual property, public procurement, rules of origin, protection of investment, dispute resolution, institutional provisions. Clear guarantees are provided that the economic benefits will not be achieved at the expense of fundamental rights, social standards, government regulatory rights, environmental protection and consumer health and safety. A full elimination of customs duties for 99% of tariff numbers up to seven years is envisaged and for 98% the liberalisation is immediate during the provisional effect of the Agreement. In addition to tariff liberalisation, it is agreed to simplify customs rules and procedures as well as rules of origin through which the export of Bulgarian goods to Canada will be facilitated. Canada is intended to remove 91% of customs duties on agricultural products after the entry into force of the Agreement. Ms. Ivanova stressed that in terms of trade in services and investment the Agreement is the most ambitious trade agreement of the European Union, respectively Bulgaria with a third country, which gives new opportunities for Bulgarian service providers. After the presentation of the bill, a discussion took place in which the MPs Stanislav Ivanov and Lalo Kirilov took part. Questions have been raised about the benefits of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement in the field of transport and information technology. Ms. Lilia Ivanova pointed out that as a result of the Agreement, the export of services to Canada, distributed in four main sectors of transport, information and communication technologies, business services and travel. With regard to maritime transport, Mr. Danail Chakarov stressed that Canada has liberalised access to the market to move empty containers of vessels to its waters, as well as open sabotages to the main ports in Canada, which represent a major economic interest for the operators of the European Union. Significant advantages have been granted to businesses from the Member States of the European Union and in the Telecommunications sector. Following the vote, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, with 9 votes, 3 votes against the Council of Ministers, and 5 votes abstentions, proposed that the National Assembly adopt a Draft for the ratification of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, signed on 30 October 2016 in Brussels, No 902-02-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u120	Thank you, dear Mr. Tashkov. Following is the report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, to present the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u121	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, signed on 30 October 2016 in Brussels, No 902-02-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019. At its regular meeting on 17 July 2019, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft for ratification of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, signed on 30 October 2016 in Brussels, No 902-02-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019. The bill was presented by Lilia Ivanova Deputy Minister of Economy. The meeting was attended by Ruslana Stoyanova, Head of the Department of World Trade Organization and other international economic organizations, Department of Foreign Economic Policy and Ministry of Economy, Kiril Yurukov, Chief Expert in the Department of World Trade Organization and other International Economic Organizations, Directorate of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Biliana Georgieva, Director of the Directorate of International Law and Law of the European Union. The comprehensive economic and trade agreement between Canada and the European Union is expected to promote and improve trade economic relations, as well as deepen cooperation between Bulgaria and Canada, including ensuring high standards in the realization of trade relations not only in the field of trade in goods and services, but also in terms of investment, intellectual property, rules of origin and others. The agreement consists of preamble, 34 chapters, 49 annexes and 7 declarations. The provisions included lay down rules on trade between the European Union and Canada and cover trade in goods, trade in services, protection of intellectual property, public procurement, rules of origin, protection of investment, dispute resolution, institutional provisions and others. The Agreement contains guarantees that the economic benefits will not be achieved at the expense of fundamental rights, social standards, government regulatory rights, environmental protection or consumer health and safety. Canada will remove customs duties for 91 percent of agricultural products upon entry into force of the Agreement. In seven years, another 0.6 percent of the customs duties for this product group will be removed. Other agricultural goods are sensitive and will be subject to tariff quotas (milk products) or will not be liberalised at all (chicken and turkey meat, eggs and egg products). Almost all duties on processed agricultural products will be abolished, from which the industry in the European Union is expected to make significant profits. The agreement provides exclusive access to the Canadian public procurement market for the European Union. For the first time, Canada opens its provinces, territories and municipalities to a foreign partner, well above that linked under the World Trade Organisation (WTO) Agreement and the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). It is important to note that bilateral trade between Bulgaria and Canada is of relatively small size. Since the beginning of this decade, Bulgarian exports to Canada have been characterised by a relatively stable commodity structure in which goods such as: ores of precious metals; copper plates, sheets and stripes; bakers' and pastry products; medicines; preparations used for animal feed; clothing; motors and electric accumulators. The structure of imports from Canada leads to the place of copper ores and their concentrates, with a relative share of up to 50%, followed by vegetables with dried legume peppers, crustaceans and electric signalling equipment. On the other hand, in view of the development of the Bulgarian economy and the level of competitiveness of Bulgarian exports are expected to increase the export of goods, whose trade on the Canadian market is currently experiencing difficulties. The main sectors where potential export growth is expected are the light industry (textile and clothing), food industry, machinery and electrical equipment, optical and medical instruments, chemical and pharmaceutical products and other non-agricultural household goods. In conclusion, it should be noted that each Member State of the European Union should approve the Agreement according to its own procedures and rules (reportation or other), after which the Council of the European Union should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the Agreement. In order to take this decision, it is necessary for the European Parliament to give consent to the conclusion of the Agreement. On 15 February 2017, the European Parliament approved the conclusion of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between the European Union and Canada. Member States that have already ratified the Agreement are Austria, Denmark, Estonia, Spain, Lithuania, Latvia, Malta, Portugal, Croatia, Sweden, Finland, the Czech Republic and the United Kingdom. France is expected to ratify it on 17 July this year. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds proposed by 5 votes for the European Union, 2 votes against the EU and 2 votes abstentioned by the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill for ratification of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, on the one hand, and the European Union and its Member States, on the other hand, signed on 30 October 2016 in Brussels, No 902-02-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u122	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. The latest report is from the Financial Budget Committee. You're welcome to present the report. Then we will move on to the debates.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I would like to present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, signed on 30 October 2016 in Brussels, the Kingdom of Belgium, No 902-02-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019. At a regular meeting held on 25 July 2019, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, signed on 30 October 2016 in Brussels, the Kingdom of Belgium, No 902-02-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019. The bill was presented by Mrs. Lilia Ivanova Deputy Minister of Economy. The comprehensive economic and trade agreement between the European Union and Canada is expected to promote and improve trade economic relations, as well as deepen cooperation between Bulgaria and Canada, including ensuring high standards in the realization of trade relations not only in the field of trade in goods and services, but also in terms of investment, intellectual property, rules of origin and others. The agreement consists of preamble, 34 chapters, 49 annexes and 7 declarations. The provisions included lay down rules on trade between the European Union and Canada and cover trade in goods, trade in services, protection of intellectual property, public procurement, rules of origin, protection of investment, dispute resolution, institutional provisions and others. The Agreement contains guarantees that the economic benefits will not be achieved at the expense of fundamental rights, social standards, government regulatory rights, environmental protection or consumer health and safety. The agreement establishes the conditions for economic activity to be carried out within the framework of clear and transparent regulation by state authorities, while at the same time the right to regulation in the public interest is laid down as its fundamental principle. The European Union and Canada retain their ability to achieve legitimate public objectives in areas such as public health, safety, the environment, public morality and the promotion and protection of cultural diversity. The agreement differs from the traditional approach to resolving disputes between an investor and a country, creating an independent, impartial and permanent investment court. The members of this arbitration will not be appointed by investors in a dispute, but by the Parties to the Agreement, i.e. the Government of Canada, the European Union and the Governments of the Member States. Strict ethical rules shall be laid down for those Members who ensure their impartiality and independence by means of a Code of Conduct for the Members of the Arbitration Court. The other main element of the new mechanism is that for the first time an appeal mechanism is included. The agreement provides for State participation in arbitration or judicial settlement of international disputes, which requires the National Assembly to ratify it by law on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Following the discussion, the members of the Budget and Finance Committee expressed their principled support for the proposed draft by concluding its discussion with the following results: The Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly not to support the First Voting Draft for the ratification of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, signed on 30 October 2016 in Brussels, the Kingdom of Belgium, No 902-02-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u124	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ilieva. That concludes the presentation of the reports and moves on to the debates on the bill. Mr. Shopov said first. Here you are, Mr. Shopov, for your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, at first glance a banal, routine ratification, but it is not an extremely important act which we are about to adopt or not to adopt. And there should have been at least a few honourable gentlemen of ministers here to say some things to each other. For many of the people who are the first term in the National Assembly, the topic is new. However, it is not new for us who have long been in parliament, and this is the trouble with some people, with us, that we know what this is about. We in the 2009 attack, when the negotiations began, warned about the malicious importance and benefits of this treaty, which was then being prepared. It has been a long time since and now we can safely take into account how right we were, how other political forces, and also MPs, come to ours, because it always happens as you know it. The negotiations went with two sides in parallel. On the one hand, they were with Canada, and on the other side, they were walking with the United States of America. With Canada, that is, in SETA, the negotiations have ended with this agreement standing before us. This happened by rolling over, I would say, barely-ed, at the end of the neoliberal era. With the United States, however, thank God it didn't work out. And it didn't work out because President Trump came to Washington, who denied some principles of relations between the countries. He said that the United States, in the future, as it is now, will enter into bilateral agreements, not as it was in a neoliberal world, and we, that is to say, the hegemon, will dictate the conditions and impose rules that are beneficial to them. That's the difference. It is a little consolation that the United States did not work out, it did not happen that such ratification had not taken place at the moment and with them. It is known to everyone that the whole world knows that the North American economy is so connected that many of the things that will sneak through will pass, will infiltrate on the principle of diffusion from the United States of America through Canada, through the Canadian economy, through Canadian entities will be economically disguised in a way to enter Europe. And, frankly, we Bulgarians do not have so much about this Agreement here, we are entrusted by Brussels, by those circles that want the Agreement to pass, to be ratified, to simply ratify it and to enter into force, because we need all the countries of the European Union to ratify it. I see the attitudes for us in Bulgaria to pass. However, I hope that other countries in which they oppose neoliberal processes: economics, thinking and politics, will take the high ground and other countries to stop this harmful to the entire European Union Agreement. There's a lot we can talk about in particular. It was no accident that the committees tried with the reports to reassure us that they would not pass in Bulgaria GMOs. They cannot fail, colleagues, and this is how things are arranged, rules, food in North America, that it is impossible to resist with our decision that we voted against GMOs products. They will be so hidden, manipulated, imported, covered that there is no way that this will not affect us. The other aspect of social affairs. It's not just social here, it's about rights, as they call them, freedoms, neoliberal. Consider that there will be many gender moments, elements that will be imposed and inserted into our society, because this is what neoliberals do. Beneficent reasons, for the reason of the adjustments that are necessary, even benefits for certain countries and economies, are inevitably introduced such elements, which have no way to pass us and there is no way not to hit us. This is because, as is known, international treaties, such as this, have an advantage over domestic law. And here this arbitrage, which is created, and other rules here, things are similar and we can make such analogies. I'm not getting into the specifics. When I was once in this Commission and in the Legal Commission, I was trying to prove and clarify that the gender neoliberal rules, regulations elegantly, slightly, inconspicuously involved in the local law of each of the countries, as were attempts by the Convention on Refugees, we were barely able to contain this front. I'll end up with this. The Agreement in question has a strong ideological meaning. It is one of the swan songs of neoliberalism, the last attempts of neoliberalism to enter Europe, to succeed in entering the laws of European countries, where it cannot otherwise, in this way. In Canada, they continue as part of the Empire of the Anglo-Saxe, this country, which is one of the five sides of the Anglo-Saxe, of this empire, and continue to rule and hold the power openly neoliberal circles and circles that will soon not go to this country in power. A little consolation for us is the lifting of visas with the state of Canada. We from "Attack" have always viewed the dropping of visas and the free right for people to travel around the world as their inalienable and inherent right, not a question of concessions, a good will of certain circles, which they trade against receiving dividends, of benefits. And for us, what is widely spreading as a very great achievement is a small victory, a little consolation. We at Ataka will not support this agreement, as is our permanent position for at least ten years now in any case where the subject has been put up, debated, commented in this regard. We have also made statements in previous parliaments from the parliamentary tribune. In our party TV station, we have also expressed our opinion. I call on this House to take hold of itself and not to support this Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u126	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. You've almost run out of time for the independent MPs. In the order of the requests, first Mr. Gokov asked for the floor, then it is you, Mr. Bogdanov. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u127	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This comprehensive economic and trade agreement between Canada, on the one hand, and the European Union and its Member States, on the other, affects 510 million. Europeans and 35 million Canadians, as also mentioned in the reports, remove the customs duties of 98% of the products in their trade. The SETA must be ratified by 38 national regional parliaments in Europe. For Bulgaria, as early as October 2016, in the previous term, despite public disapproval, the Bulgarian government approved this agreement. There followed the submission by the Council of Ministers to the National Assembly of the Draft Law on the ratification of this agreement on 28 June 2019 already in the mandate of this government and immediately leading and participating committees, nine were urgent to see it at the first vote in the fastest way. They did so in the shortest possible time and, of course, above all with the votes of GERB and "United Patriarchs" proposed to the National Assembly to adopt this bill in the first vote, this agreement. However, as you have heard and seen from the reports of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, there has been a breakthrough Although the Agreement governs trade rules between the European Union and Canada and covers trade in goods and services, the protection of intellectual property rights, public procurement, the protection of investment, the resolution of disputes, institutional provisions and others, it cannot be without prejudice to the social and labour protection of workers and citizens. For me, therefore, it is very important the opinion of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. It has been a long time since the passions in relation to these agreements with Canada and the United States of America have gone down, and I am surprised what caused the National Assembly's leadership to submit this bill to the first vote in the Chamber after seven months, and quietly. Maybe you're stuck with a legislative initiative, maybe by throwing it back into the public space, you're trying to stir up passions and take the public's attention away from the problems and protests that shake the state thanks to this government. Either way, this viewing of the Bill today is weird and funny. Perhaps this is the place to mention that Bulgarian citizens and civil organisations, apart from the protests, joined the European citizens' initiative, which gathered over 3.5 million signatures to stop the non-transparent negotiations on the two agreements with Canada and the United States. However, the government has signed, and now they want us to ratify the Agreement with Canada. Now get to the point. It is clear that the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) will vote against the ratification of this Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between the European Union and Canada. This is not a surprise because BSP and the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.The BSP has many positions on this issue, all of which are against this agreement. The reasons and reasons for this are many. For me, the main thing is that the Agreement affects the interests of citizens and, above all, of the people of employment, violates the priority of public interest over private and will generally negatively affect our country's economy. I will try briefly to mark the reasons which oblige me to vote against and to make sure that the ratification of this agreement does not take place. I know of all the arguments of the supporters of the Agreement that it does not affect the labour and social rights of workers because it contained commitments and provisions regarding international labour standards, including the International Labour Organisation, and thus the rights of the working Bulgarians were guaranteed. Also that the Agreement allows for the implementation of national laws, including labour law, that regarding the social security of Bulgaria there is an agreement with Canada on social security and separately with the province of Quebec, i.e. insurance rights of Bulgarian citizens working in Canada, and vice versa of those working in Bulgaria are protected. I say that so far foreign companies have exploited the Bulgarians when they emigrate to work abroad, and now this agreement has created an opportunity to exploit them in their own country. The Bulgarians will not be able to strike to seek their rights, because with this agreement a supranational arbitration body has been set up "any corporation operating on the territory of Bulgaria on the basis of this agreement will be able to raise the question that this will lead to a reduction of profits." In other words, there is an opportunity for the court to rule in their favor. I'll give you another example. If the government, after signing the Agreement by a decree of the Council of Ministers, decides to increase the minimum wage, this will also be a problem because it will be a prerequisite for reducing the profits of the existing corporation in Bulgaria and it could turn to this supranational arbitration and dispute this. If anyone can answer me categorically that this will not happen, I will agree that my motive is not valid. That's a problem for me. I have a few more motives I need to mention. The main argument to support the Agreement of importers and its supporters is that we are almost expecting some violent economic development after signing the Agreement with Canada and strengthening trade between Bulgaria and Canada. I will not quote data because when the bill was submitted they gained popularity, and they have become older since they are for 2018. Those for 2019, although they have not come out yet, would hardly be any different. I will only mention that in 2018 from the turnover of Bulgaria with the whole world, the one with Canada is below 1%. In fact, somewhere it was quoted as 0.24%, which is a quarter of the total trade of Bulgaria. I do not know in economic terms what such a stormy rise this agreement will have for the development of Bulgaria. So I consider this to be an inconclusive argument to the motives. I do not know if the signing of the Agreement is still linked to the visa waiver for Bulgarian citizens for Canada, although they are not subject to this agreement and have nothing to do with it, because in some way in 2016 the visa issue was bound by the signing of the Agreement. I will not refrain from mentioning that in the last 30 years the number of people of the Bulgarian citizens who visit Canada within one year is less than 8,000 people. So the negatives of this agreement, which will fall on our heads, are hardly worth it because of one such positive, which is the lifting of visas for Bulgarian citizens for Canada. I can also start to motivate myself in the direction that the Agreement does not impose any things that are outside the rules of environmental protection and food safety. For example, we will provide access to Europe and our country of genetically modified foods, which does not in any way comply with Bulgarian legislation, and I am sure that it does not comply with European legislation. The main arguments against this will come from people who are engaged in agriculture and food, and I will not dwell in detail on this. As a Member of the National Assembly, I have followed all the events so far concerning the social sphere, and I declare not only that I have not participated, but I have not heard any discussions on the subject at institutional level about this agreement. Such a fragile lack of discussion, analysis and positions leaves me, and not only in me, but also in the whole Bulgarian society, the feeling that it does not matter whether it is good or bad for Bulgaria, but it should be done because some foreign interests require this. There are no studies on the effects of the Treaty on our country and on the European Union as a whole. On the contrary, there was some research by the Ministry of Economy, which was thoughtfully hidden when in the public domain talked about this agreement. Moreover, conspiracy and opaqueness are fundamental shortcomings in the process of adopting this treaty, of this agreement. Extremely dangerous things are trying to get through this comprehensive economic and trade agreement. I know and I am sure that if the Bulgarian Parliament ratifys this agreement, it will be detrimental to our national interests. I stop here and again I say that the representatives of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria and we will vote against it, as we are nationally responsible. We believe that the least we need to do is protect the rights of Bulgarian citizens, Bulgarian workers and Bulgaria. It is worth defending them fully, so I urge you not to support this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u128	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Any lines to Mr. Gokov's statement? I won't. Come in for a speech, Mr. Bogdanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u129	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Due to the rise of liberalisation as a basic principle in the service of transnational companies, the entry into force of the Trade Agreement with Canada will pose a serious threat to public services in the European Union, including those in Bulgaria. We believe that the restriction of national governments to effectively ensure the right of access to basic public goods such as water, health, energy and others at the expense of corporate profits of private companies will lead to weakening of the institutional environment in Bulgaria and in the European Union, as well as to numerous negative social consequences in the long term. In addition, more than 40,000 US companies are registered in Canada. These companies will indirectly gain access to European markets, which will lead to market liberalisation in areas such as health care, cultural, postal services and water. We are concerned that some of the natural resources will become major factors for profit recovery and the role of the social state will be reduced. Liberalization in these sectors poses the danger of a large group of people dropping off the list of those who have equal access to services. Similarly, they are threatened by limiting the freedom of utility services to produce and distribute energy. According to the texts of the Agreement, all services are subject to liberalisation unless an explicit exception is made. A disturbing moment is the fact that a large part of the lobbying demands of businesses find their place in trade negotiations and are included as a text in the agreement itself. If they are successful, more and more public sectors will be exposed to private competition, transnational auctions of undertakings, state ownership, will be mandatory and privatisation transactions will be resumed under unfair conditions for society and the state. We also have reservations about the separate parameters of the Agreement with Canada on public services, in particular, about major differences in standards and regulators for certain sectors between the European Union and both parties, partners to the Agreement on Canada and indirectly the United States, which would lead to risks in terms of food safety and certain other goods. Possibilities are being opened to strengthen the import of GMOs and Canadian companies are currently making inquiries to the European countries about a change in the laws prohibiting the import of certain types of such raw materials and products. Also public procurement in Bulgaria and throughout the European Union are threatened to become accessible to all North American companies, which is worrying about the future development of business in our country. In relation to the above, SETA will result in a refusal of national sovereignty. States may also be tried on matters contrary to national law. Thus, through a supranational court, foreign investors will have the right to sue European countries even when corporations consider that new laws or changes in the current ones reduce their profits, whether the changes in question are aimed at protecting the lives, health and well-being of citizens. The requirements for compliance with labour standards and rights are not sufficiently detailed and clearly defined. There are insufficient guarantees for the protection of consumer rights in the provision of services of public interest and the rights of workers employed in these sectors. The lack of a clearly defined regulatory framework for the application of the interpretation declaration would prevent its effective impact in order to prevent public services, as declared in the document itself. Ladies and gentlemen, globalization of the world economy, liberalisation in sectors that have so far been a state priority, the concentration of more money in the hands of fewer people will have a negative impact on the development of European countries. For a reason, Germany and France have not ratified this document for a long time, realizing the threats from SETA. What about the undeveloped economy of Bulgaria? In Bulgaria 75% of the companies are small and medium, for them there is nothing recorded. SETA protects the large transnational capital, not the Bulgarian producers. Threatening food safety, limiting national sovereignty, the many vague arguments and future legal consequences for our country, oblige us from IMRO, as Bulgarian patriots to vote against the proposed draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u130	Thank you, dear Mr. Bogdanov. Any lines to Mr. Bogdanov's statement? I can't see. Mr. Gechev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u131	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to say from the very beginning that so far we are absolutely consistent in the discussions and votes in various forums and institutions of this draft law against which the Bulgarian Socialist Party stands and will not support it. Furthermore, Madam President, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, between first and second readings, we are going to submit proposals for the dismissal of this first article for ratification of the Treaty and according to art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly consider it unacceptable to accelerate the process of second voting immediately after the first. We have seven groups of arguments against the signing of this agreement. The first and especially important argument, honourable Members, is that even the two leading economies and leading countries in the European Union At the moment, in the parliaments of these countries, no such procedures are underway and there is no provision for ratification of these treaties at any time, the most developed countries in the European Union. They were not signed by Hungary, Slovakia, Romania, Poland, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Belgium, Cyprus, Greece, Slovenia, Lithuania and Bulgaria. Half of them didn't sign. Once again, I note that the two leading economies of Germany and France have felt that this is dangerous for Europe's most developed economies and do not sign. The second group of factors are linked to the economic advantages that the European Union would have, respectively, Canada, from signing this agreement. There is elementary economic logic here and not simple but clear economic facts. Canada's gross domestic product is 1 trillion $709 million and the European Union's 18 trillion $749 million. The European economy occupies 30% of the world economy, Canada, 2.8%. Canada is therefore an economic dwarf compared to the European Union. When you look at the data and the trade turnover between the European Union and Canada, the second group of data: commodity trading, some EUR 75 billion, with services of EUR 35 billion, I recall, in almost USD 19 trillion, the turnover of the entire European Union. Canada has some EUR 110 billion, that is, the signing of this treaty not only with Canada is of no economic interest to the European Union. It's petty money. For Bulgaria, this is below $100 million in sales turnover. Even after signing the Agreement in 2016, by subtracting data from the National Statistical Institute, our trade with Canada has decreased and has dropped below $100 million. In other words, for Bulgaria, the signing of this agreement is not of interest. However, what is an interest in the world economy has one principle: when a small country gets access to a large country, to a large market, and if this small country on economic structure and competitiveness is close to the big country, who wins more? Of course it's a small country. These are alphabetical truths. So Canada is earning way more than the European Union. Thirdly, the signing of such an agreement will not have the same effect for the less developed countries of the European Union and the highly developed. Therefore, in the first group of arguments I told you: after the strongest.. Germany and France did not ratify, pay attention, we heard a frog that forges a horse... The least developed European country runs in the corridors of parliament in two hours to accept two readings. A very interesting zeal?! Fourth group of arguments. I'd like to pay attention. We have rightly noted for a long time that it is not at all about Canada and the European Union. The US is exerting political and economic pressure, using all their political and economic power on the European Commission and member states to sign this agreement, as it is a matter of minutes before US companies register in Canada or use their divisions in Canada to derive economic advantages from lower tariffs. That's what every kid sees. I don't know what grade. I don't know if after sixth or seventh grade, but that's pretty clear. I'd also like to add something very important. If this is important to the United States, it is also important to Britain. Britain comes out of the European Union and goes into close economic cooperation with whom? With the U.S.A. Against who? Against the European Union, against us. There's no friendship there. Friendship is friendship when it comes to market competition and profits, cheese is with money. The question is whether European Bulgaria side with France and Germany or side with the United States and against its own interests. That's what I'm talking about. Great Britain... Where is Canada, fellow Members? Has anyone heard she's in the British community? Who's in charge over there? Queen of Great Britain. So not only will we bring the wolf into the fold, the US companies through Canada, but we will give additional advantages to Britain and its entire powerful colonial practical economic system. Canada, Australia, New Zealand, in addition to having a special agreement with the European Union, they will enter Canada with the other concessions they have. Fifthly, there are no guarantees according to experts, lawyers, economists in Europe and beyond that we have full guarantees for GMOs and fracking. If there were full guarantees, there was no UK? its parliament recently decided: bans fracking with law in the UK. It's not for any other reason. In sixth place, litigation, which worries business in Europe. The legal disputes in Bulgaria will not be resolved, let us say, if the so-called Canadian companies operate here. They could also be Vietnamese registered in Canada, they're a Canadian firm. How will they operate in Bulgaria and who will solve the legal disputes between us and the Bulgarian companies, which operate in Bulgaria and are said to be outside Bulgaria? That's what we're gonna do. Therefore, France and Germany do not want to sign because they know very well where arbitration will be decided and who will decide in these arbitrations. In seventh place, there are political and economic and geostrategic reasons. What influence is growing in Europe? Is it not clear that France and Germany are taking a course of greater independence than the United States of America? Partnership with the States Yes, a great country, a highly developed economy, but here there is no place for friendship, here the battle on the economic terrain is cruel. France and Germany take a course of more Europe and less dependence on the United States of America, including military-economic. Is that right? Well, then what position are we taking? Where are we? Here's the list here. [[Shows the list.]] More developed countries in Eastern Europe are on Europe's side. Europe's most developed countries are for Europe. It is natural that France and Germany want them to run their own home, rather than just carry out orders from Washington on the phone. That's perfectly understandable. The question arises: what will be our solution in this case? We are for more Europe, greater Europe's independence, clearer protection of Europe's economic interests in the world economy, because, for example, by linking it to this vote, I am amazed. Our Energy Minister reported from Washington what the share of gas supplies would be from somewhere. I'm sorry, what's going on here? You should have waited a while to go back to Sofia. Who will decide, for example, on our energy supply inside or outside Europe? Who will make these decisions? In Washington? Are they asking us what their energy structure is? Did they ask the Bulgarian Parliament where they were supplied from? From Venezuela, 25% have problems there? The Middle East is very dependent, why not move out of the Middle East not so dependent on the Bulgarians? Do the United States Congress ask us how they structure their supplies? No. Not only are they not asking us, they're dictating us now. They rushed the Commission immediately to do a second reading. What do you mean? Absolutely not the attempts to break the interests of Bulgarian and European companies! Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u132	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. Replices, coworkers? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Kanev has the floor to say. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u133	Colleagues, I will try very briefly to refer to the chronology of this law, of this ratification, because it has a 4-year history. To tell you the truth, I have no recollection of any such with such a long waiting period, because it seems that ratification is not like all the other ratifications that we rush and push them into two readings in the Chamber. Very briefly as a chronology. In 2016, the Bulgarian government took a decision at an undisputed meeting for the signing of the SETA. On 1 July 2016, the Chairman of the Committee on Sustainable Development in the National Assembly of Hungary, by letter asking the Bulgarian Parliament not to support the signing of this agreement. On 5 July 2016, the People's Representative Velizar Enchev introduced the National Assembly's leadership against the Declaration Agreement on which there is no movement. On 7 July 2016, the representatives of Bulgaria and Romania supported the Agreement at a Coreper meeting in Brussels. On July 20, 2016, the Economic Policy Committee heard "Solidarna Bulgaria" and examined the position of the Hungarian Parliament in relation to the SETA. On 21 July 2016, a letter was signed to Tsetska Tsacheva by the Economic Policy Committee requesting that the EJC be entrusted with an urgent analysis of the Agreement with Canada and to order the Council of Ministers to agree with the National Assembly its position for the European Union meeting in September 2016. No movement! On 23 July 2016, a letter was received from the President of the Greek Parliament, in which he informed that a Commission was formed in connection with the SETA and a negative opinion on the same. On 7 September 2016, the Commission examined the draft Decision of BSP and ABB in relation to SETA. On 14 October 2016, the Constitutional Court of Germany authorised the government to ratify the SETA. For four years, Germany has refused its ratification. The Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between the Member States of the European Union and Canada was signed in Brussels on 30 October 2016. In April 2018, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria issued a decision asking President Radev that SETA can be adopted by the Bulgarian Parliament with a simple majority. In July 2018, the Austrian President refused to sign Ratification by parliament, a contract with SETA, announcing that he would wait for the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which was addressed by Belgium on the compatibility of the system of SETA arbitrations. By the way, the court's ruling came out and it's positive. By Decision No 375 of 28 June 2019 the Council of Ministers proposed to the National Assembly the Law on ratification of the SETA. Now the simplest arguments. I'm done talking about fracking, America, Europe. Thirteen countries, some say 14 countries have ratified it. What's the rush in the wind? Germany and France have refused to ratify it for four years. Trump, taking power in the U.S., categorically refused an agreement with the United States. Who needs all this when, in order to enter into force, that is, to ratify it from 28 countries, and it has been said that some parliaments, such as the Vatican, must ratify it, where are we in a hurry in front of everyone again? Why don't we find the simplest logic to never harness the wagon in front of the horse? Let's wait. Wait a minute! Look around, listen up! Who needs all this? Since 2016, Germany, France and other major countries have refused its ratification. Understand, SETA is not some sacred cow that Brussels has said: "This is very important, you must definitely! " - Let's wait. What's the hurry? I know the decision of the parliamentary group of GERB. What we can do is ask for it to go into two readings. Yes, we will put a proposal between first and second readings not to ratify the ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u134	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. A line? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u135	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kanev, in the form of a line, I would like to ask you a question. As President of the Economic Policy Committee, can you explain from this tribune what the urgent introduction of this bill has imposed? Just now, I suspected a few things in my statement. To distract public attention from the problems of the state to another problem. Why at this very moment do we want and hurry to ratify it after we have delayed it for seven months? If you could answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u136	Can I answer that? Because the Leading Commission report was registered on 27 January this year. All the committees have passed, but the report of the Leading Economic Commission was introduced on 27 January.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u137	Gökov called unprepared and asked me a bad question. [[Laughter]] The truth is that for four years this law, this ratification, is moving in space. The truth is that at the end of last year's summer session, the Council of Ministers accepted and sent it to parliament. The truth is, after that, we entered a rather heavy legislative programme. Gemma Grozdanova looks down on me. Each committee chairman has a certain limit of laws that he can introduce to the Commission. I think it was high time he entered the Chamber after eight months of ageing and awaiting opinions from employers' organisations, trade unions, NGOs and a hearing with the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u138	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. Mrs. Grozdanova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u139	Madam President, honourable Members! I listened carefully and followed the entire process that has been described, for more than a few years we have been talking about this issue. Having heard both sides of the room, the left and the right, I think there is again a more geopolitical, foreign policy problem, and not as economic as is actually the agreement between the European Union and Canada. I rarely mention names of colleagues. I don't think I'm gonna do it now, but I'm gonna say a few counterarguments of what I heard. Mr. Gechev, you speak of France and Germany as if they have never participated in the negotiations on the whole process within the European Commission and within the European Union. This agreement has been signed by all Member States but has not been ratified by all Member States. It acts temporarily, it is in force in areas where the European Union has exclusive competence. In areas where there is national competence, it will start to act when ratified by all Member States. I will not say how many there are, although Britain, as it became clear, ratified it. Let us say that after tomorrow they will be a total of 27 Member States. Mr. Gechev, back to you. Many years ago, when you were Deputy Prime Minister, you, through this policy of protectionism, brought Sofia not only to the street, but to the whole of Bulgaria. [[Private applause from GERB.]] I heard you were going to submit proposals between the first and second reading of the Bill. Unfortunately, I have nothing to say against this, because our Rules allow it. Let us not forget that this is an international treaty which, as I have already said, is largely in force. You can only make a proposal in one page, which is actually the second reading of the Law and in which it says:................................... It's a ratification of the agreement. You will propose the change: You did not ratify the agreement. It's actually a desire on your part to reject the Bill. If you have the will and the votes to reject the ratification bill, you can do so today. There's nothing wrong with that. We will wait three more days for proposals between first and second readings. This, in my opinion, is a legal bankruptcy of both your proposal and our Rules of Procedure. Now I don't know if you're gonna listen to me any more, but I'm gonna say a few more things. I will talk a little about the global perspective of relations between the European Union and Canada.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u140	Where'd you get all this training?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u141	Are you the only one getting ready?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u142	In the last few years, we have often talked about the global role of the European Union... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u143	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u144	I didn't expect you to talk about my professional competence.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u145	Who's talking?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u146	You. Proving the European Union as a factor on the world stage was one of the issues being discussed for many years. In this matter, there is actually a role of every Member State, as is Bulgaria. It is true that today not only Bulgaria is different, but it is different and the whole world. They're not the same international relations we had a few years ago. As I have already said here I will say something that you probably expect to hear that the trend of isolation and protectionism is not only a trademark of you as opposition, but also of many other countries, and they are already quite large. In fact, there are still insufficient consequences of this global policy. For Europe, the Agreement is important for this reason...... is the first comprehensive economic agreement signed by the European Union with a highly industrialised state........................................................................................ It is one of the Union's most ambitious trade agreements and is fully in line with the vision of the future development of the European Union. Perhaps your vision for him is not the same as for Bulgaria. This agreement is an opportunity to disprove the Eurosceptics. I think this is important, which are supporters of Europe's reduced strength, of Europe's weakened role, of the broken transatlantic relationship. This is a debate that is going on right now, do we want this kind of policy or do we not want it? This is a key signal to our competitors that Europe has a clear ambitious vision for its future, that it is strong, that it has reflexes, is no less capable and competitive than it was before. In my opinion, the agreement between the European Union and Canada will increase our role globally and, as I have already said, the issue that lies before us in this ratification, if it happens today or at a subsequent meeting, this is what is the vision of the Bulgarian Parliament for Bulgaria and for the European Union, do we want Bulgaria and the Union to isolate themselves, or is it a direct violation of our interest, do we want to develop our relations and trade freely on the basis of clear rules or do we not want to. I think that we have given this answer many years ago, even before we entered the European Union, and we have done so, part of you have worked in these years, I, because I am younger and incompetent, I am not, but we have gone on this path of our own choice, and you very often stress that you have a role in this process to live in a free market, to have great confidence, greater trust and to commit freely to countries and societies that choose to live in the same way, because there is another choice. Therefore, my main argument in support of the Agreement is that it creates concrete economic opportunities for Bulgaria at a minimum risk with more detailed rules in order to protect our national interest. You don't think so. Let us have the opportunity for competitiveness, to have the opportunity to unfold the potential of the Bulgarian economy, for which many opposition parties are willing. I will not hide the fact that we will in fact deepen our contacts with Canada, which is a major NATO ally and one of the European Union's closest strategic partners. In this way we will increase the influence of both the Union and Bulgaria, in my opinion. I will not enter into the timeline of acceptance and of signing, but I will say again: part of the Agreement is already in force 2017, September month, and according to all the statistics that have been made so far, the exchange between Bulgaria and Canada in this period of nearly two years has increased by 29%. If that doesn't matter to you, don't let it matter. I will say again the countries that ratified it. They are of a different scale, both small and large, and eastern and western, and northern and southern, central European. The most important ones are not, Mr. Gechev... In France, at the National Assembly, ratification passed with a positive vote, is now in the Senate. In Germany, as you said, the Constitutional Court has ruled that there is a possibility for consideration. It is true that it has not been dealt with, but you have always criticised us for the fact that we have dealt with the bigger ones in the European Union, do we not have the right, both Parliament and Government, to make its own decision? I think we do. I did not list the countries, but I will say them: Austria, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Denmark, Estonia, Lithuania, Latvia, Finland, Malta, Portugal, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom, however you criticise this decision from our point of view, of course. Another thing to say is that the Agreement provides for an opportunity for each of the parties to come out of it, if there is such a need, as the Bulgarian Parliament ratified, so can by voting and denounce this agreement. We have heard many questions since 2017 about the temporary application of GMOs products, shale gas and that our sovereignty will be damaged. I would define these conclusions as wrong, and I think that it is not well-meaning what it says in the Agreement, it is indeed very large in volume. Finally, there is no denying it, you all confirm it, and I say again that if you have the will and the opportunities to reject the Agreement, you will, but I believe that much of you do not consider what they say from the stand. Canada as a rich, large country, a strong country, despite comparisons with the EU's gross domestic product, certainly affects the world economy, has long-standing traditions and, above all, the rule of law and their developed democracy, because no one can deny it, which we claim to be our common values. Let us strive for these values, and let us not be afraid of competition, because I believe that any competition leads to better results. The Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria, as we said, supported it. If that doesn't matter, fine. Finally: in the Agreement, when it is made sense and read, it is seen and heard that there are guarantees in it for our sovereign right to both legislate in our own country and apply our national laws. And I don't think there's a big problem with his support. I call on our group to support it. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u147	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Gechev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u148	Mrs. Chairman! Dear colleague, listen carefully since... [[Comments from GERB: "Colega! "]] Well, there's been some changes, mate, now, okay. Listen carefully! First, there is a date "2nd October 1996" on which the Board of Directors of the World Trade Organisation, which is protectionist or free market. May is for free market, was adopted the Republic of Bulgaria on the second October 1996, see on the Internet, and from the first January 1997 Bulgaria is officially a member of the World Trade Organisation, which accepts only countries with policies that are for liberalization of International Trade. So the World Trade Organisation says that the then government is about liberalisation, and you claim it is not! So either the World Trade Organization is right, or you are! Choose your own. Secondly, you are talking here about the big countries, that in some cases they were against the big countries, in others they were about the big countries. Your problem is that you have never said a proposal coming from Washington on any problems! You're even going against France and Germany when you're going to break the phone call from Washington. And now that's where your ministers are reporting back. Well, loosen up a little bit! You are chosen here not by the citizens of the United States of America and their corporations! Here we are chosen by Bulgarians to protect the Bulgarian interests. Thirdly, when you said protectionism, for example, you will now comment...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u149	Increase the group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u150	Yeah, I'm done with that for the Monetary Council and the exchange rate. But honourable colleagues, you correctly chose Videnov's financial team Dimitar Radev is Deputy Minister of Finance, Mitko Kostov was Minister of Finance, you chose them, including you personally, to manage BNB! Because they're good. Have a nice day. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u151	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. Mr. Gurnevsky, come in. Third line is good, Mr. Zarkov. [[Radio.]] Mr. Gurnevsky, when you go out, such excitement comes that you should be glad you have so many fans.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u152	Thank you, party sweetheart, [[Laughter and applause at GERB]] that you still have after today's vote! [[Laughter at GERB.]] A line to Mrs. Grozdanova. People are right, you cannot measure yourself with their qualifications, especially with this not of a professor, but of Academician Gechev, who entered the history of Bulgaria, Europe and the world with the worst bankruptcy brought to a country like Bulgaria. And when he spoke to you today about the second October 1996, why don't you remind him that in this particular period, the dollar was headed for this height against the Bulgarian lev? He's talking to you about January 1997 about what kind of society we've entered. Well, that's when we really got in. A three-dollar pension. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] At the time, it was the worst bankruptcy of the economic minister, Mr. Gechev. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And now I want you to tell me...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u153	That's a compliment, Mr. Gechev. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Say the line to Mrs. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u154	This is about a bill...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u155	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u156	...of a comprehensive economic and trade agreement between Canada, on the one hand, and the European Union, on the other. This is about the whole European Union, as you said. Explain to these people what this is about. And, secondly, we do not want to listen to people who have brought Bulgaria's worst bankruptcies! History has rejected them, they're pushing into it again. [[Applause from GERB.]] Thank you, Mr. Gurnevsky. Mr. Zarkov, come in for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u157	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! After the last line, I must first say that I find it extremely worthy of respect both the way Gemma Grozdanova defends her idea and the Bill and the way Professor Gechev and BSP oppose. This is a debate that is going all over Europe. It is complex, it has different views and let us not lower them in the lowest way, because the issues that are being put are very important and are for the future! I take a line to say that as GERB consistently pushes forward this treaty, so we consistently oppose and have reasons for this. My line is in disagreement with the fact that Mrs. Gemma Grozdanova raised the question as if you were voting for the SETA to be real Europeans and to be ahead or if you are against it, you are for some kind of isolationism or seclusionism. That is not the case, and you know it! There are various visions, there are many dangers expressed in all societies and in the European Parliament with regard to SETA, because in addition to the questions you are asking, dear Mrs Grozdanova, and for which we have been trying to answer with regard to the competitiveness and economic consequences of this agreement, it raises the following questions. Do we want our policy and decisions to be made by selected majority or anonymous corporations at global level in the European Union as well? Do we want the world to continue to evolve so that those who have much more and have nothing constantly increase? Do we want to see nature on a global scale being crushed by an economic model that wants more and more productions, more and more consumption and thus infinity, even though resources are limited? In other words, on the threshold of the new decade before the whole world, a question has been raised about changing the overall economic model, and all major economic factors are working on this issue. SETA is obsolete! We're going after the events. It won't help us, on the contrary, only harm us. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u158	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Mrs. Grozdanova, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u159	Madam President, honourable Members! I didn't hear anything too specific so I could give her a specific backdrop. You seem to be politically offended. If you're offended, there's a reason. I will draw a parallel with another global policy that we have not supported, namely the UN Migration Pact, and now it appears that, in the new composition of the European Commission and the new future migration policy in the European Union, this will be our problem. And I fear that if we do not do or if we do so that we do not ratify the Agreement between the European Union and Canada, we will once again prove that internal policy somehow we do not understand each other on international issues. And I say again, here is not so much a matter of economic impact of the Agreement on Bulgaria, here is a question of where we are going and where we are going. So, if there is an opportunity and a desire from the entire Chamber of the Bulgarian Parliament, let us talk more often about these issues in the Chamber, let us not be offended about who is what, what he has studied, what he has graduated from, who he has taught, because you do not know what I have read or what I have finished. [[Heckling]] Yeah, there's nothing wrong with that. The biggest insult to me is that I'm a doctor. I think that's enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u160	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. Mr. Nedyalkov had a statement. You're welcome, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u161	Thank you, Madam President. My procedure is in the manner of conduct, because we have repeatedly addressed you with calls to observe the order in the National Assembly, not to use the language that Mr. Gurnevski once again used here. He allowed himself his personal moods to listen and who should not listen, to express them from this tribune. That's his personal opinion. If he does not want to listen to anyone in this room, he is free to come out, but here they are all MPs elected by a sovereign elected by the Bulgarian people, and every Bulgarian MP has the right to be on this platform and to speak on the topic, which is part of the agenda. Madam President, don't turn this maxim: where stupidity is a model, where reason is madness, don't instigate this process in Parliament! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u162	Thank you, Mr. Popov. As you pointed out, the National Assembly stands for the MPs to express their positions, and I have the task of seeing if their statements offend anyone. I didn't see an insult in Mr. Gurnevsky's statement. Procedure. Mr. Nedyalkov, just a minute, there is a procedure for Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u163	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, I am doing a procedure to extend the working time until the adoption and vote on this point. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u164	I'll put the procedure to the vote. You're right. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Nedyalkov will speak, I'll give him the floor. Please, voting mode. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Colleagues, this is how we've extended our time. You have the right to declare by voting your will. Vote 157 MPs: 88, against 60, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u165	Thank you, Madam President. I want a re-voting procedure in connection with the re-voting and naming check on behalf of a group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u166	Re-vote and name check. Colleagues, please take your seats. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We'll run a name check, of course. [[Noise and lines.]] Should I start from the back? I'll start in the middle: Dimitar Ivanov Danchev - absent Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - absent Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov - here Dobrin Nenov Danev - here Donka Dimova Simeonova - absent Dora Ilieva Yankova - here Dora Stoyanova Hristova - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Evgeni Genchev Budinov - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Evdokia Slavchova Asenova - absent Elena Stefanova Pesheva - absent Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov - here Emil Marinov Hristov - here Emil Seraphimov Tonchev - here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Errol Osman Mehmed - here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Brought to you by WITH S2 Written In The Heavens Subbing Squad Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Dimov Ivanov - here Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev - absent Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - absent Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva - here Ivo Angelov Hristov - absent Iglika Ivanova-Subeva - here Ilian Angelov Timchev - absent Imren Ismetova Mehmedova - here Irena Metodieva Dimova - here Irena Todorova Anastasova - absent Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Ihsan Halil Hakke - absent Yordan Apostolicov - here Yordan Iliev Yordanov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev - here Kalin Nikolov Popovski - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - absent Konstantin Veselinov Popov - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Mitkov Subev - here Krasimir Hristov Jankov - absent Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kristina Maximova Sidorova - absent Krum Kostadinov Zarkov - absent Krastina Nikolova Taskova - absent Lalo Georgiev Kirilov - absent Lilyana Drumeva Radeva - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev - absent Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova - here Maria Yordanova Ilieva - here Maria Yordanova Tsvetkova - here Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Vladimirov Tinchev - here Martin Stefanov Obreshkov - absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov - absent Mitko Kostadinov Polychronov - here Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov - here Mladen Nikolov Shishkov - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer - absent Nikola Iliev Dinkov - absent Nikolay Asenov Tishev - absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - here Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov - absent Nikolay Dimitrov Penev - absent Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov - absent Nikolay Krastev Boshkov - absent Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov - here Nona Krasteva Yotova - absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Pavel Dimitrov Shopov - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - absent Peter Hristov Petrov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Plamen Trifonov Hristov - absent Polina Alexandrova Shishkova - absent Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova - absent Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - absent Radoslava Plamen Chekanska - here Radostin Radoslavov Tanev - here Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - here Rosen Zhivkov Ivanov - here Rosen Malinov Malinov - absent Rumen Vassilev Gechev - absent Rumen Nikolov Georgiev - absent Rumen Petrov Genov - here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - absent Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Sevim Ismail Ali - here Sergey Manushov Kichikov - absent Simeon Georgiev Naydenov - here Simeon Christov Simeonov - here Slavi Dichev Netzov - here Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - absent Smilyana Nikolova Niva-Krsteva - absent Spas Georgiev Gurnevski - here Save Yanev Panchev - here Stanislav Ivanov Popov - here Stanislav Ivanov Stoyanov - here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - absent Stanislava Krasimirova Stoyanova - here Stefan Apostolicov - here Stefan Ivanov Burgeev - absent Stay Mitev Stoynov - here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - absent Stoyan Radkov Bojinov - here Tanner Mehmed Ali - here Tanya Todorova Petrova - here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - absent Teodora Atanasova Halacheva - absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva - here Todor Baychev - absent Toma Lubomirov Bikov - here Thomas Nikolov Tomov - absent Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Hayri Recepov Sadakov - here Halil Recepov Letifov - absent Hamid Barry Hamid - here Hassan Ahmed Ademov - absent Hristian Radev Mitev - here Hristo Georgiev Gajev - here Hristo Tanchev Prodanov - absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - here Tsvetan Borisov Topchiev - absent Chavdar Yordanov Velinov - absent Julian Krastev Angelov - here Yulian Mihailov Papasimov - here Yavor Bozhilov Notev - absent Yavor Rumenov Bojankov - absent Adlen Shukri Shevked - here Albena Vladimirova Naydenova - absent Alexander Dimitrov Panov - absent Alexander Ivanov Matsurev - here Alexander Koychev Ivanov - absent Alexander Mairov Siddy - here Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov - here Alexander Petrov Alexandrov - here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Tihomirov Simov - absent Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Atanas Marinov Popdimitrov - absent Angel Iliev Isaev - absent Andon Dimov Donchev - here Adrian Ivanov Raykov - here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anna Nikolaeva Slavova - absent Anton Konstantinov Kutev - absent Asya Atanasova Peeva - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov - absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Bogdan Emilov Botsev - absent Boris Vangelov Borisov - here Boris Petkov Kirchev - here Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Ivanov Borisov - here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva - absent Bjurhan Ilyazov Abase - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Georgiev Lambev - absent Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Mirchov Milushev - here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova - absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Valeri Mirchev Simeonov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Vasil Tsvetkov - here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov - absent Velislava Ivanova Krasteva - absent Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova - here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva - absent Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - absent Veska Marinova Nencheva - absent Violeta Ruseva Jeleva - absent Vladimir Slavchev Valev - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Stoyanova Zhelyazkova - here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov - absent Georgi Georgiev Stoilov - absent Georgi Dimitrov Andreev - absent Georgi Evdokiev Markov - absent Georgi Zaprev Dinev - here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov - absent Georgi Kolev Kolev - here Georgi Nikolov Vergiev - absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - absent Georgi Tenev Stankov - here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - absent Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova - absent Daniel Petkov Yordanov - absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova - here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova - here Danka Evstatieva Zidarova-Lurtova - here Dean Stoyanov Stanchev - here Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Petrov Taskov - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Angelova Todorova - here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - absent Dimitar Ivanov Avramov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here One hundred twenty-nine plus two. There's a quorum, moving on. Mr. Nedyalkov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u167	He's gone!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u168	There's no Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u169	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u170	What's the procedure? There was a re-election procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u171	Dear Madam President...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u172	Wait, we have a procedure after the roll call.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u173	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, if you allow a re-vote at 14.10, after the work of the Parliament, which is until 2:00, this will be outside the Rules of the National Assembly. There should be no revoting and no work of the National Assembly at all after 2:00, as no extension of working hours has been voted! [[GERB lines.]] Do not allow this in violation of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u174	Mr. Popov, there was a voting procedure to extend working hours. She was... [[Relations from the National Representative Philip Popov.]] The procedure has been voted on and you have requested a name check before this re-vote procedure. We have a re-vote procedure that's been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u175	She hasn't been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u176	It was at 1:52 p.m. There was a proposal under procedure and the procedure was accepted. I'm putting to a vote the revoting that... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u177	There is no accepted extension of working hours. There was a vote and...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u178	There was a accepted continuance of working hours.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u179	There was a vote and a re-vote, but it wasn't accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u180	The first vote has been passed.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u181	The procedure is over by re-voting. It's not overrated. There is no complete procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u182	Please vote on a re-voting procedure that Mr. Popov requested before the roll call. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, take five and we'll move on. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Abort the vote. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u183	Colleagues, take your seats. Colleagues, I'm only going to re-vote the extension of working time until the debate is over. The vote will take place tomorrow. Please, voting mode. Vote 165 MPs: 96 against 60 abstentions 9. The motion is accepted. We continue with the speeches. Here you go, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u184	Madam President, honourable Members! I call on you to look at the item on the agenda and from another angle. I do not know if you know, but there have been such symbolic spaces free of transnational agreements in the European Union for a long time. 1600 municipalities from the European Union from 12 countries have said no, thank you!................................................................................................... They supported the Barcelona Declaration, a declaration in which municipalities are concerned about the productions in these agreements, especially the fact that their competence and capacity are subject to serious devaluation by signing these agreements because they want to manage public funds themselves for the benefit of the population. I won't make any other arguments. I would just like to say to you that there are dozens of municipalities in Bulgaria that have adopted with a decision of the municipal councils such accession to the Barcelona Declaration. Among them are Roman, Gorna Malina, and also a municipality in the district town of Lovech. Let us listen to these ten municipalities that have assessed the damage of concluding such agreements. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u185	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. Any other speeches, colleagues? I won't. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Zablyanov, do you have a statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u186	May I?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u187	Yes, of course. If you'd like to come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u188	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Strangely, this agreement is being discussed. I take the floor because I was provoked by some of the speeches that stressed that there is nothing concrete about this agreement. Secondly, the question is whether this agreement is protectionist, or is it aiding free trade; is the political and social forces that stand on the side of protectionism, whatever that means, regressive, those who deserve to be reprimanded; is free trade the instrument that brings prosperity and prosperity to the peoples? In other words, all those values of neoliberal economic and political doctrine, which in the early 1990s somehow entered the political programs and programmes of the Bulgarian governments. The so-called reform of the Bulgarian economy after 1997 was carried out on these understandings, and as a result of this economic course today we are here today to not be able to pay the bill. This is briefly the issue of SETA in its internal Bulgarian dimensions. Whether this is an agreement between individual countries or between the European Union and Canada is a separate issue. It stems from the complex structure of the functioning of the Union, where the European Parliament and the European Commission adopt certain norms and ratify national parliaments. That is to say, the question arises about the value of our efforts today, is there any point in ratification in national parliaments? If we deny the meaning of today's debate, if we say that today's world trade is based on the principles of freedom, the free formation of prices and the absence of a dictatorship, then we will be far from the truth. Today's world trade from price policy to resource distribution is carried out in the condition of the dictation of transnational corporations from oil prices to sneaker prices. Where is the place of the Bulgarian national economy and what is the Bulgarian national interest within the common European market is the real issue? What did they say about the Agreement in the European institutions because it was about them? The Social Commission of the European Parliament voted against this agreement, chaired by Bulgarian MP Georgi Pirinski. It voted against this agreement with very concrete and serious arguments. And the first ones I want to mention are: the question of jobs, balanced wage and income growth, as well as the imbalance in the protection of labour rights and investor rights. I appeal to all those who believe that these issues are not specific. The social committee of the European Parliament accepted these arguments and agreed that the agreement between the European Union and Canada does not, or rather, have, an extremely negative impact on small and medium-sized businesses in the European economy, has an extremely negative impact on job protection, as all protections of employment in its relations with global corporations, which are investors, are dropping out.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u189	The weather, Mr. Jablyanov. Finish it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u190	I'm done. Moreover, the imbalance in the protection of labour and corporate rights stems from the so-called arbitrations to resolve disputes. In other words, there is an unequal, unfair trade agreement that does not simply guarantee free trade, it destroys free trade conditions if it is seen in depth. And for small countries like Bulgaria, which are destined to be in general the proletariats of Europe, it is disastrous. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-29.u191	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? You don't have time for BSP. I'm closing the debate. Colleagues, the vote will be upon completion of the examination of the fixed four points tomorrow. Colleagues, due to running out of time, I am closing today's plenary session. Tomorrow a regular plenary session Thursday, 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
