ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, I remind you of those of you who are without masks and if they have forgotten them, look for masks in the Quaestors. There are additional quantities provided. I ask everyone in this room to wear masks as in the Minister's order and as required. Honourable Members, I propose to your attention a draft programme for the work of the National Assembly for 1 "July 3" 2020: As the first Wednesday of the month in art. 53, para. 8 There are no proposals from the parliamentary groups. "1." New discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior, adopted by the National Assembly on 11 June 2020, returned for a new discussion with Decree No 122 of 22 June 2020 to the President of the Republic under art. 101 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Structure in the Area. 3. Annual report on the activities of the Supreme Judicial Council for 2019 Importer "The Supreme Judicial Council, 29 May 2020: 4. Report on the activity of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council for 2019 Importer "The Supreme Judicial Council," 29 May 2020. 5. Report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office and the investigating authorities in 2019. Importer "The Supreme Judicial Council," 29 May 2020. 6. Report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the administrative courts in 2019. Importer "The Supreme Judicial Council," 29 May 2020. 7. Report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the courts in 2019. Importer "The Supreme Judicial Council," 29 May 2020. 8. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Aid Act. Importers suppose Maria Belova and a group of MPs, 26 June 2020, item 1 for Thursday, 2 July 2020. 9. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Patents and Registration of Useful Models. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 4 February 2020, item 2 for Thursday, 2 July 2020. 10. Draft decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the proposal of a candidate for a Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, head of management, insurance supervisory and candidate for a member of the Financial Supervision Commission, supporting its policy of analysis and assessment of risks on the financial markets, improving supervisory practice and protecting investors' interests, insured and insured persons, presentation, public disclosure of documents and hearing candidates in the Budget and Finance Committee, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. Importer "The Committee on Budget and Finance, 24 June 2020, item 3 for Thursday 2 July 2020. 11. Draft Law on the ratification of the Intergovernmental Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Hellenic Republic on Gas Interconnection Greece - Bulgaria, Project IGB, signed in Sofia on 10 October 2019. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 18 June 2020, item 4 for Thursday, 2 July 2020. 12. Report of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means for the activity carried out in 2019. Importer "The National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means, 29 May 2020, point 1 for Friday, 3 July 2020. 13. Report on the activities of the Commission for the Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of the Special Intelligence Means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act in 2019. Importer "The Commission for the Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of the Special Intelligence Means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act, 4 June 2020. Point 2 for Friday, 3 July 2020 14. Parliamentary control. Please, voting mode. They voted 185 MPs: 143, against 3, abstention 39. The motion is accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal that item two of the voted agenda be dismissed. There's a lot of motive. Public tensions have been created among many people, namely the business that deals with mourning and funeral rites. You've all heard that this amendment frankly lobbies large operators and communications service providers through the back entrance to replace their equipment with 5G equipment. Madam President, you may also be familiar with the Ombudsman's opinion on this issue. There are many arguments, so I suggest that this item be removed from the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. I'll put your proposal to the vote. Colleagues, I am voting on Mr. Genov's procedure for dropping item two of today's agenda. They voted 188 MPs: 61, against 95, abstention 32. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Atanasov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! From several meetings, I am impressed that two of our colleagues are not wearing their masks, and I would ask you to take action on this issue. Come on, in one session, don't wear a mask, but the two colleagues don't wear their masks at all anymore. Do you think we enjoy wearing masks?! There is also a violation of the order of the Minister of Health, so please take action against these two colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u5	One I see, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u6	One of them is clear.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u7	Mr. Pawnov and Mr. Shopov, please put on your masks! Procedure in the manner of conduct...............................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u8	Madam President, I'm taking procedure in the manner of conduct. Of course, we all have to wear masks, but I don't think it's right that every morning the sitting starts with someone going out on this stand and counting the colleagues who are not wearing masks. For this work there is RZI, which closely monitors who is with and who is without a mask and accordingly draw up the necessary acts. It's not your job to keep an eye out for one, two or five minutes to report which MP is without a mask! I think the RZI colleagues are doing this job pretty strictly. Again, I call on fellow Members to focus on work, on legislation, not on looking at who is wearing a mask and who is not wearing a mask. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u9	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Let me just point out that in addition to the importance of the work we do here, it is important that the health of the MPs and the people with whom they meet in the electoral areas is important. So, Mr. Pawnov and Mr. Shopov, please put on your masks! I'm looking at RZI for being in the room without masks. [[Private applause from GERB.]] The way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u10	Madam President, I assume you have read the Minister of Health's order, and I believe that Parliament's leadership should be fined. It says that parliament's leadership should provide a distance between MPs of a meter and a half. Where's that distance?!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u11	Put the mask on! Don't do that!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u12	I'll explain about the mask. Parliament is obliged to provide us with a meter and a half distance. Why is it not provided this distance, Madam President, and it is also in the order?! So this part could be broken! The other thing that is said is that masks are placed in public places and it is clarified what is a public place. Parliament is not a public place because there is a special regime, a controlled entry regime. The President of the Council of Ministers himself takes off the mask and starts talking! The Minister of Health says the Council of Ministers is not a public place because there is a special regime of entry and does not do public services. The same applies to the National Assembly. So let RZI come and give us a fine, we'll appeal him in court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u13	You can appeal to him, Mr. Pawnov. I don't intend to get into any arguments. It's a closed room here, and you have to wear masks in a room like this. As all Bulgarian citizens comply with the laws, the MPs must comply with the laws they make in this Chamber. Please, colleagues, let's focus on the work we have to do today! I continue with the following draft and draft decisions: A bill implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/125 of 16 January 2019 of the European Parliament and of the Council on trade in certain goods which could be used to apply the death penalty, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead. It is allocated to the Commission for Monitoring Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Services Act. Importer "Iskren Veselinov" and group of MPs. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports and to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the proposal of a candidate for a Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, head of management, and of a candidate for a member of the Financial Supervision Commission, supporting its policy of analysis and assessment of risks on the financial markets, improving supervisory practice and protecting the interests of investors, insurance and insured persons, presentation, public disclosure of documents and hearing candidates in the Budget and Finance Committee, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. The Committee on Budget and Finance. A bill to supplement the Law on Obligations and Contracts. Importer "Iskren Veselinov." The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. A bill to amend and supplement the Health Act. Importer "Polina Hristova" and group of MPs. The Committee on Health is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports and to the Committee on Education and Science. A bill to supplement the Law on the Judiciary. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of the World Bank to provide support for the World Bank Office in the Republic of Bulgaria on 12 April 2019. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft amending and supplementing the Agricultural Support Act. Importer Maria Belova and group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Messages: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces by its order has authorised the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of the aircraft Il-76 with its air force crew of Ukraine. The authorisation shall be valid for the period from 28 June 2020 to 10 July 2020 for a total of six fields for the transport of military production. 2. In the performance of art. 65, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria has, by its order, authorised the dispatch of a warship mining hunter, with its state-owned arms and crew, servicemen to participate in the training of the Republic of Turkey's air force between 15th and 27 October 2020, including the transition days. The notifications were received on the 26th and 29 June 2020 by the Commission. No. 003-09-45 and in. No 003-09-46 and granted to the Defence Committee. Last message: The National Assembly received a Report of the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 22 May 2020. " 21 June 2020 and Protocol No 16 of a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund, held on 23 June 2020, at which the Report is reviewed and discussed. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report and the Protocol were sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Colleagues, before we go to the first point, I would like to put to the vote an extension of working time to the vote of all the judicial reports. That was the decision we made at the Conference of Presidents. Vote 152 MPs: 143, against 2, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Moving on to point one: A NEW DISCLOSURE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE MINISTRY OF INTERNAL WORKS, ADMITTED BY THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION OF 11 JUNE 2020, RETURNED FOR NEW DISCLOSURE WITH STORY No 122 OF 22 JUNE 2020 TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF JOL. 101 OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Mr. Nunev, would you like to brief us on the Internal Security and Public Order Report?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I am making a procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber of: Milko Berner
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u15	Please, voting mode according to the procedure Mr. Nunev presented to us for admission of guests in the Chamber. Vote 141 MPs: 138, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Mr. Nunev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u16	♪ I can't believe on Decree No 122 of 22 June 2020 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, received on 23 June 2020, on the return for a new discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior, No 902-01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 September 2019, adopted by the National Assembly on 11 June 2020, and the reasons to the Ukhaza At its meeting held on 25 June 2020, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee discussed Decree No 122 of 22 June 2020 on a return for a new discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior, adopted by the National Assembly on 11 June 2020, and the reasons for the Ukhaza. The meeting was attended by: the Administration of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria: Stefan Yanev Ivanka Ivanova acquainted the members of the Commission with the statement of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria and the reasons for it. On the basis of art. 101, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The President returns to the National Assembly the provisions of § 1, § 6, item. 3 concerning Art. 39, para. Art. 8 and § 8 44, para. 1 and 6 of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior, adopted by the 44th National Assembly on 11 June 2020. In his motives, the President points out that, with the changes adopted, the Ministry of Interior Act. The public order security and the safety of road traffic are complemented by new security tasks. Claims that high-level focus in this additional activity is indeed the protection of higher values of personal freedom, the right to life, the privacy of individuals. However, the newly adopted texts do not clearly define the objectives and conditions for carrying out the security activities by the Ministry of Interior. In this way, the possibility of limiting rights, opposing interests, entities and institutions is created. This new security function is intended to be provided to persons under conditions and by order laid down by a regulation of the Minister of Interior. Thus, the law on the management and functioning of the system for the protection of national security requiring the National Assembly, the President of the Republic and the Council of Ministers shall be abandoned in accordance with their competence to determine the main tasks of the state structures. The regulations under attack do not comply with other legal requirements, which is contrary to the rule of law. He believes that this duplication of functions is also contrary to the updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria adopted by the National Assembly Decision of 14 March 2018. This strategy excludes duplicate structures. There are also no arguments for effectiveness and efficiency in the creation of this parallel structure. There is also no concept regarding the mechanism of interaction and coordination between the bodies exercising this activity. The President indicates that the provision of art. 44, para. 1 of the newly adopted Act on the Ministry of Interior allows the establishment of specialized units for the security of persons both in the newly established General Directorate "Gendarmeria," specialized operations and the fight against terrorism, as well as in the other three main departments of the Ministry of Interior. The President expressed his disagreement except with the content of the contested § 1, item 1. 3 concerning Art. 39, para. Art. 8 and § 8 44, para. 1 and to the method of adoption between the first and second votes in the committee responsible. Leaded by the so-called motives, the President exercises his right under art. 101, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria to return for a new discussion of § 1, § 6, point Paragraph 3 and § 8, para. 1 and 6 of the Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior. Deputy Minister Milko Berner noted that the Ministry of Interior considers that the legislator has provided the necessary legal environment for the implementation of the powers conferred by the Constitution and the laws of the Ministry of Interior for the conduct of state policy on preventing, combating crime, protecting national security, protecting citizens' rights and freedoms. In a detailed and reasoned opinion, it argued that the main objective of the proposed and adopted amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act, which are contested, is to protect public officials in the event of a threat to their lives and health in the performance of their duties. The interaction between the NSA and the Ministry of Interior is regulated in the National Security Service Act and in the regulations through operational, technical, security or other specialized activities. The main thing in the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Ministry of Interior Act is that security is provided not because of the position taken, but only with a specific threat. It is envisaged that the specific threat, the form, scope and duration of security should be determined by a committee with the Chairman General Secretary of the Ministry of Interior, and members the Directors of the General Directorate of National Police and the General Directorate of Organized Crime and Gendarmerie, specialized operations and the fight against terrorism. An argument was raised that the persons under art. 20 of the NSO Act cannot give up security, but it is provided for the Commission under art. 23 of the NGO Act to decide on the security of the persons of the Ministry of Interior. It is this committee that will assess the circumstances of the specific person and the specific threat. This basically means that parallel security will not be carried out. The President's motives claim that the creation of units at the main directorates has extended the possibility of security from these levels as well. Notes that they are created on the basis of the current Ministry of Interior Act and the aim is to specify the areas of action in critical situations, while the implementation of security is only a legal option and it is subject to analysis and judgement. The Minister of Interior only establishes rules relating to tactical action. Finally, he noted that the proposals made by the MPs were based on art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and are relevant to the subject matter and scope of the bill tabled and adopted in the first vote. For this reason, the Ministry supports the texts that have been vetoed by the President and believes that the changes made will increase the effectiveness of the Ministry of Interior's activities. The discussion was attended by the MPs Rosen Malinov, Valentin Radev and Plamen Nunev. Rosen Malinov stressed that the President's motives are literately exposed and supported and will support the veto in this House. Valentin Radev stressed that the main task of the Ministry of Interior is to carry out security activities related to the protection of public order and national security. The Ministry of Interior has participated in a number of local and international security events and has great experience in security of events. In addition, the Ministry of Interior and the National Security Service have always interacted through technical, operational and other specific security tools for which the Ministry of Interior has proven capacity. Adopted and attacked texts do not create a parallel structure, but only create conditions for increasing the efficiency of security activities. Regarding the arguments of President Plamen Nunev pointed out that the contested texts correspond to the constitutional norm of art. 105, para. 2, according to which the Council of Ministers ensures public order and national security of the state. Threatening the activities of the employees in the administration directly reflects on stability, public order and our national security. The Ministry of Interior Act lists officials in the authorities, and the National Assembly Act states the authorities of state authorities, and these are the senior state figures - Prime Minister, President, Vice President, President of Parliament, Prosecutor General, MPs and other endangered national security. The employees who support the activities of the state authorities and are part of their administrations are within the scope of the Act on the Ministry of Interior. It is no coincidence that the Ministry of Interior Act mentions the functions exercised by the respective security officers in the administration of the state authorities in order to distinguish them from the higher state figures mentioned above. Participants in the Committees under the National Security Service Act and the Ministry of Interior Act are representatives of the executive power, which is a prerequisite for interaction and synchronization in the activities of security, including assessing the type of security and ensuring its most effective form, according to the need of the guarded entity in terms of national security. This eliminates the possibility of protecting individuals both under the Ministry of Interior Act and under the National Security Service Act. The choice is a form of validation of best practices and on the basis of competition is also a form of improvement of the security activity. The practice in law enforcement also gives us other examples of the existence of self-arranged guards, such as Forensic Guards, and also the Bureau of Protection, which have similar functions. All of this excludes the claim of creating parallel security in the Ministry of Interior Act. The expansion of the circle of protected persons under threat in the administrations of the central and local authorities of the Ministry of Interior is within the scope of the powers of the executive under the Constitution and is a kind of measure to combat anti-social events, crime and protection of national security. As a result of the discussion, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee with 10 votes for the House of Interior, 1 vote against the Council of Ministers, and without abstention, proposed to the National Assembly that the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Act on the Ministry of Interior, No 902-01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 September 2019, adopted by the National Assembly on 11 June 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Nunev. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u18	Madam President, honourable Members! First of all, let me remove this protective mask, because...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u19	Yes, yes, when you speak, I allow it, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u20	...in expressing the free will of the MPs from the stands, I think it's right that they don't have these barriers.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u21	Of course. I also told Mr. Nunev that he could speak without a mask. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u22	I hope this thing will be reconsidered in other parts of the House, because some colleagues were right, in truth, but to get back to the topic. Dear colleagues, today we are looking at the return to re-examine the adopted Ministry of Interior Act by the President of the Republic of Bulgaria in its part of § 1, § 6 and § 8, which introduces a more detailed and, in my opinion, a non-specific opportunity of the Ministry of Interior to guard certain categories of persons by order which is provided for in other laws. In addition to the coliseum with a number of regulations, which are quite detailed in the President's motives for the return of the Law for examination, I believe that this subject has been repeatedly discussed, repeatedly examined and provided a number of reasons and considerations for the Ministry of Interior to deal with activities entrusted to it under the Constitution and described in the Ministry of Interior Act. We believe that in the coming days, months, years, the Ministry of Interior should focus its activities on the political leadership of the Ministry of Interior, to focus its efforts on such reorganising the activities of the Ministry of Interior, that it achieves the main objectives and functions, namely to ensure public order in the state and the security of citizens. [[Loud noise.]] What do I mean?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u23	Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u24	Really, Madam President, my self-indulgence here... [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u25	Colleagues, please take your seats. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u26	Rather, to find solutions to the problems that will lead to a more complete functioning of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, namely the protection of public order and the security of citizens, and in connection with overcoming such negative conditions that lawbreakers cause Bulgarian citizens, such as the so-called domestic crime, the organizational state within the Ministry of Interior. Just to remind colleagues that a few days ago, the trade unions in the Ministry of Interior said they were in a state of readiness for protest, because there are a number of issues that they have put before the Ministry of Interior's leadership and they should be resolved, not putting non-existent functions that will further burden the Ministry of Interior's system of activities that, not only in my opinion, but also according to a number of specialists, should be the priority of other structures that have been voted here in this Parliament. Just to remind my colleagues that in 2015 this hall was adopted precisely by the majority led by the Political Party GERB, a Law on the National Security Service, including we supported it, where a number of texts were adopted and legally regulated on the way in which physical security of persons should be carried out. Other changes that were adopted in 2014 introduced the so-called Witness Protection Unit to the Attorney General. Now, with these changes in the Ministry of Interior Act, we are introducing another structure that will deal with the physical security of individuals. Yes, colleagues will say, and I agree that the Ministry of Interior is still carrying out physical security for individuals, but such a specific activity, which is described in two other laws and is implemented by two other structures, I fully agree with Mr. President's motives that there will be duplication of functions. To a large extent there is a danger here it was said by Mr. Nunev and read in the Report, from competition between these services, and it is unacceptable to carry out such competition in the security of the individuals who are threatened. Because, to open a clamp, we are not against the security of individuals who are at any risk in the performance of their duties, but to perform this under a strictly regulated order described in law. Because, colleagues, agree that, as proposed in the Law, the terms and conditions for the protection of individuals by the Ministry of Interior are described in a regulation issued by the Minister of Interior, creates too much ambiguities in relation to the protected persons in relation to how this security will be carried out and, above all, why the MPs do not have the last word as described here when setting this order. I think it is extremely wrong that this thing should happen because the same colleagues who are going to oppose me argued quite seriously in 2015, when the NSO Act was adopted, it was precisely this type of activity to be legally regulated. I will not repeat here what is written in the motives of the Coliseum with a number of strategies, decisions of the Constitutional Court and regulations, because you are aware. You may comment on them here, but it is right and normal that the institution of the National Assembly is in line with the Council of Ministers, as set out in the Constitution, to deal very thoroughly with this issue and to dress it in legal form, as is the Law of the National Assembly. What prevented colleagues from changing the National Security Service Act so that it would also assume these functions, which are now assigned to the Ministry of Interior, a specialized body, which has been very detailed here, has worked over the years, with the necessary qualifications of the employees, with the necessary training that can be complemented and expanded in the Chamber? Last but not least is the serious issue of the additional and unjustified spending of public resources, because this will lead to additional expenditure in the budget of the Ministry of Interior to prepare such staff. We have not argued here about the creation of the new Directorate of Gendarmerie, special operations and the fight against terrorism, where two units have united, which are expected to focus precisely on the protection of public order, and in places where we have the focus of domestic crime. We are witnessing a number of actions of both the Ministry of Interior and the prosecution directed in this direction, and the gendarmerie here should take over its function, but we should put in place functions for the protection of individuals, and not only of this newly created head office, but also in a few other departments in § 8, to remind you that it is given the possibility of specialized critical response units due to criminal activity and participation in specialized high-risk operations, as well as security units in both the main departments and regional departments of the Ministry of Interior. Who needs this thing? Do you understand what dysfunctionality will be created in the Ministry of Interior? I am convinced that even the Ministry itself, the employees in it do not have the exact clarity how this thing will happen in horizontal and vertical terms, and especially this thing will be defined in a regulation of the Minister of Interior. How much money is this gonna cost and who's gonna pay? Each year we have disputes over the budget of the Ministry of Interior.. how much money to increase the salaries of employees, how to regulate the pay of night labor and a lot of other things that employees want. Especially those on the ground are working directly with citizens and their demands are not satisfied. It came down to protests to pay them overtime, outside the money voted into the State budget for these things, and now we don't have the exact and clear account of who's going to pay. Do you understand? I can give you dozens more arguments on which this law is to be rejected, to accept the President's veto and to review it so that every single text can be refined and a normal order of functioning of the Ministry of Interior is introduced, where it is not subject to non-military functions inherent in other structures in this country. They have their tradition, their strictly built hierarchy, and this is yet to take place in the ranks of the Ministry of Interior. As I told you right from the start, we need to be extremely focused as legislators and also professional and political leadership to motivate the services to work, not to create another environment that will make them more difficult. Colleagues, I call on you to support the veto of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria so that we can refine these texts and create a better environment for the work of the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, you spoke correctly about duplication of functions between the newly created structure in the Ministry of Interior and the National Security Service. We already have such a heavy example. I'm talking about the State Agency of Technical Operations and its parallel on functions and tasks service at the SANS. This has, of course, led to a reduction in the scope of the DATO's work, to a reduction and contraction of its personnel potential, to a reduction in the applications given to it to carry out the specified operations. I think the Ministry of Interior has a sufficiently wide range of tasks and competences to deal with duplication of the functions of the National Security Service, which, by the way, is one of the oldest services in Bulgaria. And in this unprofessional way by the majority in the National Assembly, it will be practically deprofessional because this will result in the duplication of its functions with those in the Ministry of Interior. I think it is at the very least disrespectful to the history of the service itself and, of course, of the Republic of Bulgaria as regards the functions performed by the Office for the Protection of Individuals and Objects as regards the National Security Service. For this we have a difficult example in this regard when it comes to duplication of functions between two services. You can see what this example has led to at the moment with regard to the State Agency. The same will most likely happen to the National Security Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u29	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Second line? I can't see. Mr. Ivanov, would you like to come in and get your coat?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u30	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Popov, I fully agree with you because in addition to the example given by you, we can give dozens more examples in the country where there is duplication of functions of different structures. To a large extent, this calls into question their functionality and efficiency. The fears that you have put out, you share them not only with me, but there are also rumors in the public that the National Security Service is likely to move towards its sunset with the adoption of these changes in the Ministry of Interior Act. I started my speech for a reason with a reminder to my colleagues, especially from GERB, who adopted this law in 2015. The National Security Service Act was supported by us so that all activities in the security of individuals could be regulated clearly and precisely. It was no accident that I planted in the Chamber that it was resonant, logical to make changes to this particular law, to extend the scope of this service, which has its traditions over time, and to carry out precisely this protection of those civil servants who are under immediate threat, for one reason or another, in relation to their duties. No one denies here in this Chamber that these civil servants or representatives of state authority.. because the notion is also extremely inaccurate and incomprehensible and therefore we insist that all the parameters of the security of these individuals be recorded precisely in the Law so that everything is accurate and clearly regulated so that they themselves feel secure in their work, and that the persons who perform this function perform it in the most professional way possible. The Ministry of Interior should focus on its immediate work on protecting public order and overcoming a number of negative phenomena in our society that threaten the normal functioning of all spheres of public life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. A statement? You have the floor, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u32	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The agreement shared by the President's motives with the main direction towards amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act for carrying out reforms aimed at improving efficiency in the Ministry's activities is not shared by me. I do not agree with the President's motives that these reforms will lead to a more effective activity of the Ministry of Interior. With regard to the finding and the reasons for the new voting of the amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act, however, for the legal opportunity created in the new chapter of the Ministry of Interior, special operations and the fight against terrorism, to protect persons in senior state positions, representatives of another state, heads of international organisations and institutions, leads to reflections on the way amendments to the Law are proposed. It is clear that the proposed changes do not comply with art. 20 of the National Security Service Act, in which there are clearly imperative persons who are obliged to be provided with security, which is from the National Security Service. With the possibility of reviewing the security by the National Security Service to be transferred to the newly established Directorate or to the Ministry of Interior according to the legislation and the contradiction with the National Security Act cannot be implemented. The big question is about the interaction between the individual units, between the individual security services. We are aware that the National Security Service, in order to reduce funds, is very often seeking the interaction of the Ministry of Interior, especially when visiting the protected persons on the territory of the country. I suppose these are also the motives, as a resource used by the Ministry of Interior. To some extent, this proposal for duplication of activity, the possibility of guarded persons being taken over by the Ministry of Interior, is also linked to the vast majority of the work undertaken by the Ministry of Interior. Dear fellow importers, in 2015 the National Security Service Act was adopted, and the other laws in the sector were adopted, proposed by Tsvetan Tsvetanov. You all supported him. I don't see Tsvetan Tsvetanov in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u33	Well, he's not a MP.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u34	What does that mean? You don't agree with the proposals Tsvetan Tsvetanov made, and you want to correct them?! However, let us recall the call we had from BSP, yet 2015. This is a very serious issue, a serious issue for the functioning of the security system. And this debate has repeatedly been called upon to be held with experts, to explain to the public what is intended and detailed work is already in the hands of professionals. And if you think that this way, making a change now, another change, by the way, in the Ministry of Interior Act, you will not have to make another change, even until the end of the term, which is after eight or nine months, then I think you are lying! This debate is about how individual units work, how they interact. If there is a problem with the secure persons and it is found, and it cannot be brought to the public's attention. This is the reason for the changes in the Ministry of Interior Act, then I call you to examine these problems in detail, to establish the practice in different other countries and to reach consensus, political consensus, but to know the security system, the security system employees, that they have stable legislation that they comply with, and know how the individual units will interact. It is precisely the changes in the laws that lead to this instability, uncertainty, both with regard to employees and with regard to the performance of the tasks assigned. I remind you that there is practice in individual countries leading in security countries that there is no separate unit that resembles the National Security Service. This activity is carried out by the Ministry of Interior. However, you are doing it as a half-step and leaving both units at the Ministry of Interior and the National Security Service on one foot at the moment. One leg's in the air! This debate is necessary, but I am still telling you: what you are proposing is unfinished business. Half the job done is unfinished business! That is why the President has very detailed written down his motives: oversight and non-compliance with art. 20. If there is no mistrust regarding the work of the National Security Service, that is another matter. This is a very separate matter! And I don't associate the case with the photos with the nightstand and the bedroom, which came up with the proposals for changes to this law, because these proposals are many before that. But let's open this debate! Because a service that has done its duties impeccably so far, we are aware that there is a severe stain that needs to be cleared. Do you guarantee that there will be no such cases to discredit this unit, which is yet to be created? And how much has experience been studied in.. I say again, foreign leading countries in security and the fight against terrorism when such a unit is structured? And in what way will the budget be financed or provided, is there an estimate of who will be the protected persons, who will be the secure institutions? If it is a matter of guarding the National Assembly, of guarding other state institutions, then probably the Ministry of Interior would have done at the same level as the National Security Service. But when it comes to guarding officials, especially when we are talking about those who have mandatory security, the President, the Vice President, the President of the National Assembly and the Prime Minister, there is a very, very different one. And if there is talk of the service of these persons, from A to Z, these changes in the Law are insufficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? I can't see. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The position of the NSO on the issue of Ataka is principled and it is inevitable, consistent, unchanged from 2005 until now. We have always criticised this service for some things from the old system to be preserved: economics, health, education, was maintained. Because this office has been like this for 30 years, practically what it used to be. If here the considerations of one side and the other side are the President, the other side is the Prime Minister, and they are currently fighting an artillery match with each other on the subject, they are conjunctural and temporary, then our position is constant. Our considerations are based on the fact that the Office for these years, for these three decades, because in the base it has legal and legal problems, admitted so many blunders and failures: these were accidents, these were personnel failures, it was a poorly done job, it is a huge state, it is many tens of millions going for its maintenance, it needs a decisive and principle change. In 2015, a law was made against which we, then, from "Attack" we declared. Many things said to you at the time Siderov and we from Ataka......... on TV...Alfa....... and in this hall. And now it's time for these things that we talked about and that we predicted to come true. For us, this change in the Ministry of Interior Act is part of this process. That is why we have always said: things work, but a process is needed for this. First are the words we say in both this room and outside. What Siderov has told you here, you gradually come to our place on a surrounded road, sometimes on the side, with a lot of crookedness, you go from one place, you come back, but you come to ours. And you know, fellow Members, why is this Homeland Security Act nice? Because it will lead to disbanding the Service sooner or later, we predict it and say it. Lately after the relevant mistakes, adverse consequences, but this will happen. Do you know when this erosion of the Office began? That's when the institution or the magistrate's security service was established. This is the second act, which hits the system in general, undermines it, undermines it, and soon after that there is no return Everything else that we will talk about here in this Chamber, and what is said as opinions and opinions, is, I repeat, conjuncturally. It is in view of the current political moment, it is in view of the current political situation and is not in principle. I conclude my speech with this: honourable Members, if necessary, and a change in the Constitution to be made. [[GERB's reply: "Absolutely. "]] But we need to move towards disbanding this service with a huge budget, with a huge staff in a way in which these problems are solved and these functions are assigned. Let's do a comparative review with the other closer and more distant countries, you know how it is, there is no such service that exists in the form as it was in totalitarian communist times. Therefore, this law on the Ministry of Interior, without even the importers and those who support it, is a big step in this regard in the direction in which I speak. This is a principled issue, and we at the attack will vote for principle reasons, not communctually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. I remind you once again to put on your mask. Please, the Quaestors, suggest a mask to Mr. Shopov. - What's the line?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u38	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u39	Yes, personal explanation please, Mr. Shopov. Personal explanation because I named Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues! I'm not going to expose this universal and universal lie with the masking or the masking. There are considerations for the use of masks and against the use of masks. I go out to make this personal explanation, as many times my name has been mentioned, both in class and in class: this friend is guilty, it is bad, punish him. He's not here and Mr. Zablyanov...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u41	Please, Mr. Shopov, don't name any of your colleagues in this room so they don't take advantage of it. We're wasting time!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u42	Yes, this is a personal explanation for Mr. Zablyanov this is a mistake, we do not need his protection. This is a personal act, Madam President. Everyone's a judge. There's a law against veiling faces, covering them. This is the legal act and any sub-legal act, which is the order of the Minister of Health, cannot contradict it. There are many other considerations. Sometimes it was funny to me in this room, here some colleagues, and today one or two or three of them wear masks representing their party flag. What do we talk about now? That's funny! But here everyone decides how to behave, what to do. There is an order of penalization. Please also stop reminding us constantly as young children how to behave and what to do.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u43	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. It's been two minutes. I've interviewed RZI for colleagues who don't wear masks, so she'll do what needs to be done. We move on with our speeches. Here's your speech, Mr. Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister Berner and guests from the Ministry of Interior! I took the floor simply for a balance as an importer, as most or part of the opposition representatives spoke. I would very much like to speak only on the veto, but at the beginning, prompted by what the opposition colleagues said, to say some common things about the veto and important things about the veto. So far, the President has taken the information from his official page, issued 21 return decrees and a revision of laws. This is the last one. His right! How many of them have gone through the review? You decide. Whatever! This one, the last one, is important at least to the Ministry of Interior, so we give him that kind of attention. But the president generally agrees, and here I can quote him. Shares what is done with the amendments with the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Ministry of Interior Act in its overall integrity. There are comments to only six paragraphs, as also pointed out by fellow Members, § 1, 6 and 8. For everything else, bravo! He says: generally well, the direction is correct, you need to increase the efficiency of the Ministry of Interior and you are doing well. I will only mention it because colleagues several times for 2015, from this tribune many times I have said it, but again I will repeat it: the security laws basically make them GERB whether because they were in power, and you [[to BSP for Bulgaria]] you were in power, opposition, and other parties with which you were in opposition together. That's what happened, but the medal we're hooking him up with. We have made these laws, and now we are making another change, not a new law, but a change. You believe it is essential, we consider it to be a conjunctural one, but it is an urgent change in the Ministry of Interior Act. And a number of other laws have changed. I'm just stressing it because it's important. Who makes changes to security laws, including system laws, the four laws and the one adopted in 2015 for the National Security Service? But get to the point! The most important changes in the Ministry of Interior Act, I said it in the Commission, but the opposition colleagues were not present, only one representative had this in fact is the creation of this General Directorate of Gendarmerie, special operations and the fight against terrorism. And other changes that are also important. Maybe this isn't the most important one, but somehow it turned out to be the focus of public attention the opposition recognized it and the President vetoed these texts. But in fact, once again, I stress, the major change is the structural change in the Ministry of Interior with the establishment of this chief directorate. By creating it, we suggest that it performs these security functions as well. What did the president say? He has six remarks supposed his representatives to the Commission, Mrs. Ivanova his legal advisor. The first remark that the President points out is that with a legislative act, I do not know whether the term is accurate, but not the Law establishes some of the things inside the security... exactly how it is structured, what will be done, what the money will be for it and so on, details. And in the opinion of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, now I stress it to, there are different practices, can be in law, can be in regulation, as is the case, and we propose in the Law. We believe that a regulation is correct for one reason at least because the Ministry of Interior Act, as I stress, was also said in the opinion of the Ministry of Interior, is a public document and there cannot be described all the details. So here we disagree and perhaps the more important argument is that there is both one and the other practice. We are the rulers, and we have decided that this will be done by decree. The other remark is that the functions are being duplicated, yes, at first glance the National Security Service or the U.S.A., as my colleagues called it before me. She's an old model, once upon a time, if she should be there, gone, changed, is another topic, I don't go into it. But is there a duplication? And now, honourable Members, there has also been an appeal with the Office for Witness Protection to the Prosecutor's Office, and the judiciary has such functions, but none of you has formally put the issue in the National Assembly or on any occasion.. it may not have been vetoed because there has been one of the President's, for any duplication of functions. But that's what it is, it exists. We're just saying that the Ministry of Interior and the experts that exist there and the experienced police officers are guarding you. Let's not forget, talking about whether they can or can duplicate that they're doing it with the National Security Service colleagues now. And so far, they've been doing it under art. 36 out of one instruction under the National Security Service Act. It says how they interact. I have also highlighted this in the Commission. Sorry, the presidency was a big challenge. Not only that, there were representatives of the European Union here, you know about the meeting in Varna all this took him away if I use this word, or the main weight fell to the Ministry of Interior. There are shades! When it comes to these persons, four, recorded in the National Security Service Act, yes, there must be some nuances, but they will learn there too. With a little preparation, they can do that too. And there's no duplication. Once again, if there has been a duplication, it has existed before. With these changes in the Law, we're not doing anything new. We are merely giving an opportunity to a structure that will be, or will have, under the Law, regional units to make this security. The National Security Service cannot guard, if we exclude the four main officials from the government, from the three authorities, it is written in the Draft Law, notice: both the judiciary and the legislative, including the executive, in Stara Zagora or in a palanquin. There are regional structures of this particular directorate and then this can be done. That's all we're saying! Nothing different. The next argument or remark of the President was that there was ambiguity on these structures, which are drawn up by the Directorate for the Different Regions of the country. Yeah, there's some ambiguity, of course. I don't think we've described everything in this Amendment and Supplement Bill. I'm talking about the Directorate General, who will have units around the country. Perhaps after a while we will change the Law. " Yes, we will change it if we have to. There's nothing wrong with that. The law provides these public relations, and we are obliged to be optimally linked to reality. And the last point, which was also pointed out by the Commission's advisor, was that we importers did not comply with the deadline. I explained it in detail there. Here I will just say that the deadline for submitting the proposals of the Members of the National Assembly, the colleagues with whom we made them, I can tell you the dates, but it is not necessary, the deadline of these three, because, imagine, November we watched the Law, indeed it is far before what happened in the last few days or months, and we imported it, and on June 16th it was considered. From 29 November to 16 January, I submitted it to the National Assembly on 16 January. So the law is respected. There's another remark that creeps into what the president says. There his representative Mr. Yanev said that this submission is not in line with the strategic review of the security system and another strategic defence review. I have to agree here. It's not relevant, but, look, there are motives for this, there's a reason why it's not not relevant, and we can't wait for this review to end. This review, you must know, has been postponed several times. And it's being postponed right now. It was good to complete the review of the system and then submit these changes to the Ministry of Interior Act, and perhaps other changes, which we will be bringing into the security system's legal documents at all. But we can't wait forever. The directorate is set up and we decide that now is the time. In this nuance, there's kind of a resonant, and we can agree with it. Finally, I, too, like my fellow Members in the Commission, must emphasise that we will not agree to this return from the President with the reasons that I briefly set out on what the President said and will support our proposal from the last time of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u45	Thank you, Mr. Radev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Please, Mr. Chairman, extend the group's time. Dear Mr. Radev, I listened carefully to your speech on all points of reason. You said a few very important things that I want you to clarify in front of the Chamber. Indeed, you have implied this change is not conjunctual, is it not related to a struggle between the institutions, which we are all witness to in recent days, which will lead to a disruption of the security system, Mr. Radev? None of the Bulgarian citizens and the protected persons are obliged to tolerate the negative consequences of the misunderstanding, because one institution today can be represented by one party and at another time can be represented by another party. You yourself said that all these changes I think it is a good reason to support the re-examination of the Law "did not go through the so-called reviews of various strategies that are subject to a pass soon. After all, there is no question of how the security of these individuals will be systematically organised. What will happen if, say, those who cannot give up security under the NTAC Act and request physical security under the Ministry Act, if it enters into force, what will happen and how will the relations between the two services develop from there? How will they interact like this? Nowhere methodically described this thing. It is for this reason that we insist that all regulations which must ensure the security of individuals pass through a law, as adopted in 2015. You're right. You're in government and you've passed these laws with all their pros and cons including. There are a lot of cons not to recall how many times we've changed the Ministry of Interior Act so far.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Malinov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u48	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Radev, the reason for my reply is the first part of your speech, in which you pointed out in a very formal and not in a meaningful plan that all changes in the Security Act are the offspring of GERB. This is true, but I say again, in a formal and not in a meaningful plan, because thanks to all these laws and all the changes we have the National Security Service, now we will have the Ministry of Interior with security functions, we have security of the Attorney General, we have security of the judiciary, we have at least 550 private security companies, that is, Bulgaria becomes one of the most guarded countries. Do you think that's normal? Is that what the population thinks? Is it guarded, which is the main function of the Ministry of Interior, or are individuals guarded, which is the purpose of this law? Finally, the logical question arises, following the events in the last three months: who will protect us from the Facebook group Dancho the cataclysm? Who will guard us from the Group of the Second District Department "Novi Iskar, who has dealt with distribution and control by police officers over the distribution of drugs?" Who's gonna guard us from the D.E.A.'s office on this thing? Excuse me, but in the end, after all the legislative changes you've made, including this one, the logical question arises: who will protect us from the Ministry of Interior? Thank you. [[Radio, noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u49	Thank you, Mr. Malinov. I don't see a third line. Mr. Radev, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u50	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ivanov, I wouldn't use the word "fight," rather between the Ministry of Interior, National Security and all other security services. In addition, I stressed, but I will say it again: and now in the current National Security Service Act. 36, it says how they interact. There's an instruction and there's a description. I don't see any collisions or anything that could bother the work so far. So far, I stressed, and the Presidency, and not only there, every security guard that is in the country and is more significant, with more present and external visitors, and VIPs, and internal, the Ministry of Interior has been involved and so far there have been no problems. I don't understand why you're suggesting there should be. For me, this is rather an interaction that will be regulated in the future, I hope, as before. Mr. Malinov, yes, all the laws, I emphasise it many times, because I am also a participant in them, and not only can I list: Military-time plan, the Defense Act and so on. We have something to do with this, and we're proud of this job. We've done well. There must be changes and now there will surely be changes to the Act on the Ministry of Interior. We are one of the best-guarded countries. I think we are one of the safest countries I have said many times as Minister of the Interior. Not to mention migration and so on! You say yes, the last days Dancho the Catcher, who will protect us and so on. And who we haven't caught now in the case of DGBOP! I'm going to ask you another way by answering your line: well, were there any such cases in your management? Or are you telling me that only during the cutting, when you were in power, for example in 2013, there were no such cases? Rejoice that we reveal them that we ourselves manage to find those who are not in the straight line. Think about it! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] So there wasn't one then?! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And they didn't exist back then. I doubt it! So there's windows when there's no drugs, no trade or any influence and so on?! It's not like that! As a citizen, I'd like to catch these people in such cases and in your administration whenever it is. Besides, just to add, we are also following our management program. Excuse me, but GERB's most important priority in the Management Program was education. Now I think it's almost safe, defense. See how much money we gave there. I am not saying that it has passed and has become a first priority, but it is one of the priorities and we continue to follow it not only with the laws and amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act, but at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u51	Thank you, Mr. Radev. Mr. Veselinov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The Group of the United patriots will not support the president's veto, leading by our lasting conviction, which we have expressed through the speeches and by our vote in the distant 2015 year. The NSO must not exist, or at least it must not exist in this form. The main thesis of the President is that the Ministry of Interior acquires powers typical of the National Security Service, and this coliseum of powers gives birth to the ineconomics of the system and disharmony. We believe that this structure, which is actually the successor of the Communist UBA and is an extremely rare phenomenon at all in the normal world, has no place in our democratic state. We can't have some people and some elite structures guarding some of the population, understand, the upper part of the political class, and the population being satisfied with another type of security. It is normal for the Ministry of Interior to carry out the security of all endangered persons in some way and it is normal in this regard to restore the principle of democracy, breaking up with totalitarian past. The Group of the United Patriarchs will not support the current veto and will vote for the Law as it was.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u53	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. The line, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u54	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Veselinov, listen to the professionals! Security and security services for officials work in the same way in all countries and has nothing to do with totalitarian past, with another past! [[Comments from GERB and OP.]] It's got nothing to do with it! And I am telling you that regardless of what the regime is and how the state is led, the security system works according to threats and it counteracts, implements specific prevention, crossing and countermeasures. That you're trying to get the debate into another track, that's your view. Listen to the professionals! And when some MP who doesn't understand what the specific texts are and what the problems that are being created are, ask people who can explain them. It is simple to say: there should be no such service because it is a service from the past. Listen to what is said and by colleagues from GERB, who are professionals! The fact that you consider it to be your creed that democratic changes also lead to denying everything that happened before 1990 is hardly to me to tolerate, so I took the liberty of giving you a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u55	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Another line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u56	Mr. Iankov, in order to formulate, we have consulted professionals. However, we are opposed to the wicked system having privileges for one type of person, to have, if you will, new Mercedes, to have almost transport services, and to a circle of persons that is absolutely unacceptable wide. No more privileges! This is our... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Well, yeah, I'm setting an example.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u57	Don't shout out of the hall! I'll give you the floor if you want.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u58	That's our opinion. The services can, of course, work and the NSO can work quite calmly as a directorate at the Ministry of Interior, without in any way creating opportunities for privileges and, accordingly, for the special position of a particular circle of persons.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u59	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Mr. Tzipov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Today we are looking at another veto the President imposes on the case under the Ministry of Interior Act. In fact, let us explain that the main objective of this bill is to restore a basic structure in the Ministry of Interior, such as the Gendarmerie, by uniting it with the Specialized Counterterrorist Unit, which exists as a separate structure of the Ministry of Interior of the first Act on the Ministry of Interior. What does this bill mean? The Government's Management Programme contains two main priorities: safeguarding public order and combating crime in the.. Conventional Crime.............................................................................................. It is these two main tasks that are carried out by the two existing main structures of the Ministry of Interior. What did the Ministry's leadership estimate? That the changed security environment in recent years gives a clear signal that there must be an interaction between these units and that is why it is necessary for them to unite in order to have, on the one hand, a more effective countering conventional crime and, on the other hand, responding to all the terrorist threats we face. In no case are we talking about mechanical mixing of the functions of the two main structures of the Ministry of Interior. Let me draw attention to the fact that, at present, the Specialized Counter-Terrorism Unit is a structure of direct subordination of the Secretary-General and is used by the Minister's decision, but let us recall how many times the Specialist Counter-Terrorism Unit has been used in recent years. In fact, this is a clumsy procedure that does not allow when there is a need to catch particularly dangerous criminals in a crisis situation or hostage crisis to use the Specialized Counter-Terrorism Unit. Now, in fact, the new director of Gendarmerie General Directorate, special operations and the fight against terrorism, will be able to act much faster when a crisis situation occurs. It is incomprehensible to me, in the President's motives, that it is not clear what it is about when regulating the groups that currently exist and are described in the legislative and internal legal framework, namely the so-called heavy groups to participate in the detention of particularly dangerous criminals and to respond to crises. These are currently available in the major district directorates, which are currently available in several of the main directorates. The idea of this change is very clear to regulate in the Law, because these groups participate in specialized police operations, which can also lead to violations of human rights. Let me look a little more closely at the reasons put forward in the President's veto regarding duplication of functions. Both in the motives and in the speech of the negotiators denied the principle of interaction, honourable MPs, and this is a basic principle, which is laid down in the current Bulgarian legislation, and in particular in the Law on the Ministry of Interior, the Law on the National Security Service and the other laws governing structures in the field of security. At present, we have several units involved in the security of individuals. The Witness Protection Bureau under the Law on persons in danger of criminal proceedings guards witnesses in criminal proceedings. Who supports the activities of the Bureau of Defense? What about the Ministry of Interior, and in particular the Directorate of the General Directorate of the National Police. The other unit is the Security Directorate General of the Ministry of Justice. Who is helping to carry out this security work for the endangered magistrates? The Ministry of Internal Affairs. So let's talk about duplication of functions in my opinion is absolutely incorrect. Attention should be paid to the fact that if these structures do not interact with each other, there will be neither public order nor effective countering crime. Thirdly, the interaction between the National Security Service and the Ministry of Interior is also a fundamental principle in the activities of the two structures. Yes, the President does not distinguish between the security of persons and the type of personal security referred to in the NTAC Act. Let me give you an example. When one of the protected persons under the National Security Act participates in a public event, who provides for the protection of public order in the conduct of this public event? Who performs the so-called encircling events in the conduct of such an event? The simple answer is the Ministry of Interior, only this is in no way provided for in the Act on the Ministry of Interior, honourable MPs. In fact, the main objective that we were pursuing in the drafting of this bill is to record the main function of guarding individuals, but, notice, it is guarding the employees of the state authorities under specific threat. At present, such security may be carried out, but it is necessary to receive a signal that there is an imminent threat of a particular person, to form a prosecutor's file or, if there is evidence of a criminal offence, to initiate pre-trial criminal proceedings and by order of the prosecutor, to appoint security to the endangered person. We believe that these employees are working in a risky environment and that there is a need to create a light order to be able to send a signal, and that committee, which is envisaged in the Bill, composed of directors of general directorates under the chairmanship of the Secretary-General, to make a quick decision on the appointment of such guards. With regard to the regulatory act.. concerns only those officials, honourable Members. This is clearly stated in the Act in force, i.e. in the Bill. Very clear! The President himself admits in his statement and in his motives that there is a need to provide such security, but I cannot explain what this misunderstanding is. It was quite clear that the importers' will of this proposal was that it was an interaction, not a duplication of functions. I therefore set an example of the interaction between the Bureau of Defense and the Ministry of Interior, the Security Directorate General at the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Interior, so to speak of duplication of functions is absurd, honourable MPs. It is clear and concrete to say, in the Ministry of Interior Act, that the Ministry of Interior is carrying out security of persons. By the way, which existed as a core structure in the Ministry of Interior until 2008, has traditionally also performed such functions, namely to persons in the Ministry of Interior, who received specific threats to their lives and health, such as investigative policemen. The Gendarmeria was guarding the professional leadership of the Ministry of Interior, including the Gendarmeria, and one of the interior ministers was guarding back in time. So we're not doing anything new, but because of the changed security environment, we've decided that there's a need to deepen the interaction. This deepening of the interaction must be done with an explicit regulation in the Act on the Ministry of Interior. It is for these reasons that we cannot support the president's veto and we will vote for the re-acceptance of the Law, because it is clear from the reasons that there is an absolute misunderstanding of one of the fundamental principles that are laid down in our law in force.... the principle of interaction between state authorities. In this case, since it concerns the protection of public order, it is quite normal to have such an interaction fixed at the legal level.. but, notice, in the Act on the Ministry of Interior. For this reason, GERB's parliamentary group will vote for the adoption of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u61	Thank you, Mr. Tzipov. Are there lines? Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u62	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tzipov, you have admitted in your statement that there has been a problem so far with the interaction between the units and it is therefore necessary to arrange for a legislative deepening of the interaction. Is there a problem? Because, if there is a problem, this problem could be solved by synchronizing the activity between the two units of the National Security Service and the Ministry of Interior. Now that you're making these changes, does that mean that there's been a problem with interaction in this term? Which of the units is the cause of the problem? If it is the Ministry of Interior, then you have every opportunity to alert, to inform the political leadership, the Council of Ministers, the Prime Minister to take measures. If it's the National Security Service, give specific examples. Why should interaction be increased and the legislator arrange for the possibility of such an interaction, which someone interprets as duplication, and you interpret it as an opportunity for greater interaction?! But it is obvious that what is allowed with the amendments to the Law will result in the withdrawal of powers from the National Security and Loading Service of the Ministry of Interior with more commitments, with more responsibility. It is clearly written in the President's motives: when we talk about responsibility, responsibility is not clear. That's why I called you. This is a very big debate.. in what way to work the individual units, how to work the sector. Security....... according to the changed security environment............................. and not to make changes in pieces...................................................!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u63	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Are there any other lines? You have the floor, Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Yankov, you didn't listen carefully, I wasn't talking about problems. It is clear that the proposal of the importers of this change in the Ministry of Interior Act is clear. The idea is after the Commission's decision under the Law on NSO and the application of the person concerned under the Law on NSO can! It is a legal possibility, not a withdrawal of functions or powers of the authorities of the NSO. Read what the bill says. Of course, any speculation can be made about whether there is a good interaction or not, but we are currently debating changes to the Ministry of Interior Act. I cannot accept any such reasoning that says that there is a duplication of functions. I made it very clear that there must be an interaction, because it is both for the protection of public order and for the protection of national security, honourable Members of the National Assembly. It is for this reason that we will not vote for this veto.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u65	You don't vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u66	Yes, we do, Mr. Pawnov, we always don't vote because there are no clear motives. I'm very sorry, but like these motives, I've never met such serious confusion. It means that these motives show an absolute lack of understanding of the functioning of the structures in the sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u67	Thank you, Mr. Tzipov. Any other speeches? Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Too many and serious arguments have been heard, why shouldn't the president's veto be supported? However, we are not going to support it from the Vol is still lacking in publicity. We don't know which businessman sent a text to the president or any of his advisors. Because of the lack of this publicity, we call on him: firstly, from now on, by doing such things, to inform us so that we know what this is about. Since we are not informed at the moment about all the other motives that have been said by colleagues, we will not support the president's veto today. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u69	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Is there another line? I can't see. Statements? Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u70	Mr. Chairman! My fellow Members, I will begin my speech with a quote by my colleague Tsypov: so confused motives and so difficultly created motives I personally did not imagine that I would read, especially when they are related to the Ministry of Interior Act, to the security services. However, the principle and good attitude in our parliamentary activity and practice require that we respond to these motives and say our different opinions on the subject. About the discovery of Mr. President, or the one who wrote to him the reasons that there was duplication of functions, duplication of services, colleagues before me spoke. Mr. Tzipov was extremely thorough, Mr. Radev as a former minister said very well. I will try to simplify them in one sentence: and at the moment there is a committee that acts with regard to the National Security Service and is listed in the National Security Service Act in which the Minister of Interior, the National Security Service and the State Agency are represented. They define strictly the specific rules: who is to be guarded, whether it is acceptable to be guarded, how to be guarded and so on and so forth. Is that a duplication? No. This is not a duplication. This is exactly the kind of communication we're talking about. But in order to do his job, because on the ground and practically everyone who touched this thing, somewhere as a member of an official delegation, knows that the employees of the regional staff of the Ministry of Interior are always where security activities are carried out by the NSA and are actively doing their work. The right thing and the best thing we can do is put on this work legally. There is no duplication of functions I heard it from my colleagues, heard it several times about regional, so-called quotes, units. Colleagues, you can't imagine it's possible that the Director of the NRA in some city would send him the Security Service. You talked about how much it would cost and so on. We're gonna send the NSA to guard the Director of the NRA, who really needs to be guarded because he's, for example, conducting an investigation right now for millions or billions of levs, but we're gonna send him all over the NSA to protect him with all his structures. Here we need to talk about the appropriateness and correctness of these functions, because the security of individuals and personal security are two different concepts, they are two different things, and when we comment on them from the stands of the National Assembly or in motives to the Bill, we should at least know. Someone here said, "Ask me." They'll explain it to you. Well, ask them to explain it to you! You can't have a man from the presidency in front of the Internal Committee telling us it's the same thing. There's no way to explain it. That's not true. But let's leave that too. The reason is that I translate it into an understandable language, because in the Law you have written some things, but you have not written any other.................. you have not written the tactical actions...........you have not written how it will be carried out, you have written nothing of this variety and you will do it with regulations. Colleagues, you have called on us many times today: turn to other countries, see in other countries, turn to the theory and practice of things in the protection of endangered persons. There are documents, and currently active, saying that tactical action, special means, equipment, routing, the specifics of cars cannot be made public in its general sense. They are controlled by law by responsible persons, but they cannot be published so freely...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u71	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u72	...because if someone goes off to make plans to harm a protected person, they'll get their information from these sources as well. And finally, on the grounds. Colleagues, a strange motive, if I were in your place, to those who spoke in favour of the president's veto, I would be at least worried about protecting one such motive when, how, and was it right to submit proposals by MPs under a bill? We are all MPs in this Chamber and I believe that each of us, but absolutely everyone, is aware that the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly is a law. And when the Rules are respected, and the President attacks in his motives under the law of the Ministry of Interior the Rules of the National Assembly, the rights of the Members of the National Assembly, it is a little disturbing not to say quite disturbing. In fact, you are not interested in me speaking to you on the ground on the ground, so I will tell you what happened today in this room and in the last few days. What happened? The President of the Republic, the one who actually runs the Security Service, decided that it was time for her to shut it down. Because the writing of such motives, the speech of angnosing on the topic of the National Security Service, one of the oldest services in Bulgaria, which on 12 September will become 142 years old, the writing of such motives, the non-employment of career growth in the Office in recent years, the turnover in the last years of the management, trained, able, knowledgeable composition, the relations imposed within the Office by its head, the President, have led today from this tribune to have comments on the topic that we should close it. Colleagues, I would never stand in such a position as the MP, because the National Security Service has been one of the elements of our statehood since Ferdinand. The issue is in another one. The National Security Service must build its resistance to personal and political power from whoever is leading it or from those who are in charge of it. Then it will follow its normal, professional degree of development and we will not have these tensions. That's the truth about the National Security Service. Do not transfer things into the Ministry of Interior Act, because the Ministry of Interior Act is currently as we offer it with all this, in fact, helping, to help the National Security Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u73	Thank you, dear Mr. Manev. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Stoyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u74	Madam President! My fellow Members, I have no doubt that the majority in Parliament will overcome the president's veto. I respect what my colleagues have said, but I don't share it. With reservations, I would accept one of the opinions if it wasn't for one of the texts I want to decipher. It is about the proposed change in § 6 and attacked by the President. 3: It is created to para. 8th para. 9 General Directorate of Gendarmerie, Special Operations and Combating Terrorism, which can also protect persons under art. Art. 20 or art. 22 of the National Security Service Act. To tell you what Articles 20 and 22 mean, it is said that according to these two texts the National Security Service guards the President, the President of the National Assembly, the Vice President, the President of the Council of Ministers, the Prosecutor General, possibly in certain cases MPs, members of their families and so on and so forth. We are talking that there was no duplication of functions, and since the Ministry of Interior will be dealing with this same activity, what does that mean?! It means coordination of work? No. For me, this means competition between state institutions. If competition in business leads to any development, state institutions are extremely harmful. This means to me that an attempt is being made to seize functions from the President and to assign them to the executive power. On this occasion, I would like to tell you that in our Constitution, the figure of the President is extremely underestimated, in the sense that the President is elected by the entire people, and there are extremely few rights, and there are other figures that are chosen by specialized communities and have uncontrolled rights, but we may talk about this some other time. I'm saying all this because we want to shut down a service. I also respect the opinions of my colleagues from the United Patriarchs. I have to tell you that in the whole world this and Krasimir Yankov said it, every special security service performs the same functions. They're training each other, by the way. Our National Security Service has thanks from Heads of State of Union States, including two American presidents, including Putin, including two Popes of the Roman Catholic Church, who have remained in Bulgaria for the last 20 years, and we wish to close it lightly. What's this all about? Why? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u75	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoyanov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Stoyanov, you said something very interesting: BSP does not like the Constitution in its part about the powers of the President. I am tempted to replicate you and remind you that this modern, democratic Constitution has been adopted by the Seventh Grand National Assembly, in which BSP, not BCP, had an absolute majority and an absolutely decisive role, and I think BSP has been proud of this Constitution so far. Now you are revising a very serious set-up regarding the Constitution, with which I replicate you: our constitution is good and it must be respected!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u77	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. Will there be a hole, Mr. Stoyanov? Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u78	I respect the Constitution as I suppose everyone in this room respects it. The constitution is a result of a compromise that was reached thirty years ago, and a national compromise, so that we can reach where we are right now, so that we can make a smooth transition from socialism to democracy. So we don't have to throw stains on the Constitution itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u79	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoyanov. Any other speeches? I can't see. Colleagues, we're going to vote. I re-vote the Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior adopted by the National Assembly on 11 June 2020. 195 MPs voted: 136 against 59, no abstentions. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] The motion is accepted. Thus, the Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior has been re-approved. The law will be sent to the President of the Republic for promulgation in the Official Journal of the Republic within seven days of its receipt under art. 101, para. 3 of the Constitution. Thanks, guys. Moving on to point two: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE TERRITORY TERRITORY LOCATION. Mr. Vesselinoff, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u80	Madam President, honourable Members! Report for the second vote of the General Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction of the territory drawn up on the basis of art. 81, para. 2 of the Sub-Supreme in connection with the adoption of the first vote on 27 February 2020: Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction of the Area, No 054-01-6, submitted by Spas Panchev, and Draft Law on Supplement to the Law on Construction of the Area, 054-01-12, submitted by Julian Angelov and a group of MPs. The Law on the Construction of the Area is amended and supplemented by the Law on the Construction of the Area. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u81	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law supported by the Commission. They voted 132 MPs: 100, none, abstention 32. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u82	Proposal by the National Representative Manol Genov and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 1 to fall." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u83	Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u84	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The legislation on the structure of the territory has been amended many times, and we believe that regulation of this activity does not belong to it in the Law on the structure of the territory. The proposed legal provision does not regulate precise and clear rules for municipalities, legal entities and citizens directly related to the execution of funeral and mourning activities. A diverse practice is being established with regard to the exercise of the same activity by the different municipalities, which will create an opportunity to seek assistance in resolving many issues by judicial means. In Bulgaria, with few exceptions, cemetery parks are municipal. Of course, the management of cemetery parks and activities related to their maintenance, with the construction works, are among the priorities of the municipalities. Currently they are regulated by several laws: through the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, through the Law on Public Procurement, through the Law on Municipal Property and so on. In this regard, a new legislative document is needed to regulate all this activity, which will be in its fuller volume and there will be no different appeals to decisions, lawsuits and so on. In this regard, I would also like to read you the Commission's decision on the protection of competition of 28 May 2020. A little over a month ago. What does the Commission say? The Commission takes the view that the systematic place of the so proposed new provision of para. 12 of the Law on Construction in the Area should not be in that regulatory act, as long as it governs different matters from a structure in the territory. At the same time, the new provision could contribute to the establishment of different requirements in different municipalities in the country for companies that provide funeral, construction and quarrying services by tearing apart the national market in local markets, creating administrative-normal barriers to the realization of the business and legal uncertainty in the implementation of these activities. The Commission for Protection of Competition considers that the rules governing public relations in the sector concerned as well as the regulation of the activity of traders carrying out funeral and quarry services in the territory of cemetery parks, as well as specific requirements for them, should be codified in a special Law on Funeral Services. In this way, compliance with the Supreme Administrative Court's ruling on these decisions will also be achieved. There is also practice in this matter. This will create a single legal basis for carrying out business on the relevant market throughout the country, ensuring compliance with the principles of art. 19 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria on equal legal conditions for business for all citizens and legal entities, preventing violations of competition law and consumer protection. I think that with this decision that the Commission for Protection of Competition has issued, everything has been said, and I believe that we should not now support this decision, but move towards the creation of a new law that regulates the activity in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u85	Thank you, Mr. Dinkov. First Mr. Angelov's line. Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u86	Madam President! Mr. Dinkov, about most of the things you said, you're really right there should be a separate law and it's being worked out as far as we know. But when will it be ready, when will it be accepted, whether it will be one or two or three years, no one knows. The idea of proposing this solution is so that municipalities where there is a need to regulate with their own regulation the activities of cemetery parks. Because this disorder that is happening to us all is well known what is happening in cemetery parks and activities that are taking place there is simply not morally either to the mourners and to the deceased. And we all know that very well. From this point of view, a regulation was voted in the Sofia Municipal Council in the previous term indicating these activities. Yes, the SAC annulled its action, but referred to that there is nowhere specified in law that the municipality has the right to make such a regulation for these activities. Our goal is precisely this: that municipalities can refer to the fact that there is a legal text and to make appropriate regulations so that the cemetery parks can really be places where people can rest in peace, and not whirl any illegal activities, and, how can I say, immoral behavior towards the mourners. The other thing I will only add: for me the thesis I hear here in the Chamber, for the second time already from BSP, I cannot understand it, provided that it is your municipal councilors from BSP, in the Sofia Municipal Council in the previous term, all of them have supported this regulation. That is to say, there is obviously some difference in the opinions of the municipal councillors from BSP and the MPs from BSP. The entire Municipal Council has unanimously voted on this regulation because it knows what the problem is and supports it to be resolved.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u87	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Mr. Christov, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u88	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, since we have talked twice about the need for a new legislation, there are really serious problems in this area. She's not only in Sofia, she's in all the big cities, Mr. Dinkov. Many times in the years, attempts have been made to introduce such a bill. Unfortunately, so far we have nothing accepted. Just to let you know that perhaps a project has been working for about a year at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, together with the Ministry of Health. The bill under which the text is currently being worked is perhaps more than 90% consistent. It has nothing to do with the previous texts that have been imported and dealt with in the National Assembly. We have the assurance of the working group, the two deputy ministers, that as soon as you understand by the middle of the month, the final text of the bill will be prepared and we could see it on the Ministry's website for public discussion. I am telling you this in order to reassure everyone that this text, which is currently proposed for voting, will actually in no way affect the general solution to the problem of funeral services, funeral and ritual activities, cemeteries and cemetery parks. The law is comprehensive, it really has nothing to do with it, and it is better accepted than the previous bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u89	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Third line? Here you go, Mr. Dinkov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u90	Dear Mr. Angelov, reply to your line gave Mr. Hristov. The fact is that this activity, as I said, is fragmented, unregulated everywhere and wants a solution in this direction. Mr. Hristov told you that such a law is currently being drawn up in the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, together with the Ministry of Health to address all problems. Such regulations, apart from in the Sofia Council, are also in some other municipalities, but if we want to resolve this issue permanently, the solution is to hasten by adopting this law on mourning. Furthermore, by adopting these amendments now, we will enable municipalities to make their own regulations. To a certain extent, some will be in one way, to another degree,.. in another way, but if the new law is adopted anyway, these regulations will all be dropped as they are based on another basis. I said just a moment ago to the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, to the Law on Municipal Property, and I am sure that much of these things will enter the law and then you will really not have to make such changes to the Law on Structure of the Area. We know that we have made so many changes in the Law on Construction in the territory during the past three years that people can no longer cover where and how to proceed according to ZUT. I therefore believe that we must now abstain, not accept it, but wait for the adoption of the new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u91	Thank you, dear Mr. Dinkov! Mr. Genov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u92	Dear colleagues, Mr. Hristov just said about the new law. There are also importers of the old.. the reasons for submitting such a law years ago are the same ones with which you now want to make this patch in the Law on Construction of the territory. The Commission's decision on the protection of competition in this matter, on a complaint by interested parties, is very eloquent. And there is a paradox here, Mr. Nenkov you are one of the importers of this law, only that Julia Nenkova in the decision of the KPC says otherwise that such a law is necessary... Read the decision of the KPC and you will see it, it is very interesting. Colleague Dinkov tried to tell you some things. It's just a rude interference in a business, rough interference through the local authorities. The local authorities have so far controlled these activities, exercised and regulated them through two laws, the Law on Municipal Property and the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration. Here now, and it is very well stated in the Decision that local markets are being created. Local markets of this kind of services... Mr. Angelov was right. Maybe there is a mess, maybe there are irregularities, but, Mr. Angelov, Sofia is not Bulgaria. In many places in the province things are quite different, not to mention the administrative capacity of the municipal specialists who have to draw up such regulations.. not to act on the principle copy-paste of the ordinance, e.g. the Sofia Municipality or the Plovdiv Municipality, or the Varna Municipality. So this will really create extremely big difficulties for companies dealing with this business, and I, at the beginning, when we voted on the agenda, suggested that this item be removed from the agenda. You have shown the leadership stubbornness to look at this point. Obviously, the Law will also be adopted, as I see it, but this will still be, I would say, an eloquent nail for lobbying in Bulgarian legislation is not the first time. The joint project has other content available today. As soon as the Bulgarian legislation, the Bulgarian Parliament, the Bulgarian MPs serve the small interest of certain companies with brightly highlighted corporate interests, served by these amendments, vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u93	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov! - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Shopov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u94	Madam President, honourable Members! You remember, in the first vote of the Bill, we at "Attack" were strongly opposed. We warned. And what was the result? It had never happened, but this IMRO bill made it so that the hearse went round the National Assembly there was something symbolic about it, for the first time, it had never happened and went away. But they may come again, and I tell you that as a result of this ill ambition of IMRO, it is a party ambition, part of their lasting policy, to introduce a bill which passes, who does not pass. But the question is their workers, as I have told you before, five or six people on five or six televisions in the evening, generously paid, of course, shows, participations, to create an impression of legislative activity. Some of them pass by and this, as you can see, will pass, and it will pass, because GERB, coalition partners, from time to time have to make another gesture...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u95	Time, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u96	...because otherwise something might break, as IMRO's leader said. Why not this one? Why wouldn't it be about that? IMRO holds the chairmanship of the committee in question. The strangest thing is that after Mr. Hristov informed us that the bill is being prepared, which we said at the time that it had to be done there is a problem in this direction. However, the bill is being tabled in plenary and we are looking at it, and when it is adopted, a stahanian work will follow in the drafting of regulations in the respective municipalities, by adopting the relevant acts, the matter will enter into a particular mermaid. All of this is absolutely unacceptable. Clear signals have been given to this by the representatives of this industry. I finish my speech with the words: colleagues from GERB, do not accept this bill, which is purely image, party and who pursues very close party goals. There is no purpose and nothing will contribute to solving problems in the genre, in the industry. Be more insistent at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to accept and submit more quickly this bill, which we will have to vote on.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u97	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Let's move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u98	I want a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u99	Mr. Nenkov, we've heard a lot. Thank you. If you'd like to speak up.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u100	I'm out.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u101	I put to the vote first Mr. Genov's unsupported proposal. Vote 82 MPs: 12, against 65, abstention 5. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 1. Vote 84 MPs: 71, against 5, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u102	A proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1a which becomes § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 125, para. 4 is finally added: A proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1b which becomes § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 128a The following 1. In para. 1: (a) in the first sentence after the words (b) in the second sentence, after the words 2. In para. 2 after the word "send" "send" is added as necessary. 3. In para. 3 after the words A proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1c which becomes § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 140a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 after the words................................................................................................ The following shall be added by electronic means of a copy (receipt) of the detailed layout plan in force: the word "services' shall be replaced by the service providers in the application, and after the words "participations' shall be added. 2. In para. 3 after the word "services" shall be added "paper" and by electronic means. 3. In para. 7 words in the design visa under para. 6 except for the data under art. 140 are included. The design visa under para. 140 is replaced by the design visa under para. 6 contains the data under art. 140 and to which it is applicable
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u103	Statements? Mr. Genov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u104	We from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria are supporting this text. At the meeting of the Commission, present colleagues supported him in the Commission. I believe, Mr. Veselinov, that this is a continuation of a tradition. These are the corrections I even think the poor Oresharski cabinet with one Ministry of Investment Planning took such an initiative for these services. In the years indeed, texts were proposed in the Law on Structure of the Area. I congratulate my colleagues at IMRO. In this case you do not think about lobbying interests, but indeed this proposal corresponds to the interest of all investors, with the interest of many people, so that we will gladly support you............................ not to say that BSP has always voted by angel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u105	Thank you, Mr. Genov. I put to the vote the creation of the new paragraphs 1a, 1b and 1c, which become respectively second, third and fourth, proposed and supported by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: for 89, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted. Colleagues, take a 30-minute break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u106	We're continuing the hearing. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u107	According to § 2 there is a proposal of the National Representative Spas Panchev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Manol Genov and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 2 to fall." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Iskren Veselinov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the 1. In para. 1 is created t. 16: ..16. maintenance, equipment and/or improvement of reception station elements, as well as their replacement or addition by installation or disassembly of radio-transmitter elements, with elements and equipment of the same or other electronic communications network of the same and/or other technology in the same frequency range, subject to health standards and requirements, in the event that excavation works and/or construction works are not required to be carried out, altering construction, design and/or load of the equipment concerned, in order to comply with mechanical resistance and resistance requirements. 2. Paragraphs 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 shall be inserted: The activities referred to in paragraph 1 shall be carried out in accordance with the procedures set out in the Annex to this Decision. 1, t. 16 shall be carried out on the 1. the opinion of an engineer-constructor; 2. an opinion of an engineer with professional qualifications in the field of communications with instructions for their performance; 3. a positive expert assessment of compliance with the requirements for the limit levels of electromagnetic fields by the National Centre for Public Health and Analysis; 4. a document certifying their approval by the Communications Regulation Commission in the case of replacement or addition of elements and equipment with elements and equipment of another type of technology, from an electronic communications network of another type or for another frequency range. (5) The operator of the electronic communications network shall inform the owner, respectively the co-owners of the property or owners of buildings in floor-owned mode through the manager of the floor-owner's property in which the reception station is built before the start of activities under para. 1, t. 16, related to the replacement and/or upgrade of components and equipment with components and equipment of other types of technology, from an electronic communications network of another type or for another frequency range. (6) In the cases under para. 1, t. 16 The operator of the electronic communications network shall be responsible for any damage caused to the owner, respectively to the co-owners of the property or to the owners of buildings in floor property mode. (7) Within 14 days after the completion of the activities under para. 1, t. 16 The operator of the electronic communications network shall assign the necessary measurements for compliance with the limit levels of electromagnetic fields. Measurements shall be carried out by laboratories accredited by the Executive Agency "Bulgarian accreditation service" or by another national accreditation body which is party to the multilateral agreement on mutual recognition of the European accreditation organisation for the relevant area or which meet the requirements for recognition under art. 5a, para. 2 of the Law on National Accreditation of Conformity Assessment Bodies. (8) Within 14 days of receipt of the measurement protocol under para. 7 The operator shall submit an application for registration to the State Health Control Authorities in accordance with the Health Act and its implementing regulations. (9) Within 14 days after registration under para. 8 The operator of an electronic communications network shall submit an application for registration to the Communications Regulation Commission and inform the mayor of the municipality concerned by applying the documents under para. 4, 5, 7 and 8. According to § 3 there is a proposal of the National Representative Spas Panchev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Manol Genov and a group of MPs: - Paragraph 3 to go. - Paragraph 3 to go. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 195 the following amendments and additions are 1. In para. 5 after the words. 151, para. The following shall be added: 1.. 15................................................................................ 2. Alinea 6 is amended as follows: The mayor of the municipality shall issue an order to remove: 1. constructions which, due to natural wear or other circumstances, have become hazardous to the health and life of citizens unfit for use, are threatened by self-destruction, create conditions for fire or are harmful to sanitary treatment and cannot be repaired or strengthened; 2. Elements and equipment of reception and transmission stations under art. 151, para. 1, t. 16 which are installed in violation of art. 151, para. 4, 5, 7, 8 or 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u108	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Here you are, Mr. Bonev, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will draw particular attention to the wording of § 2, namely that construction permits are not issued for..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I will start with why it is necessary for you to support our proposal to drop it. [[Noise.]] First, I will refer to the opinions of the Ministry of Regional Development...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u110	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u111	...which is even at the first reading of the Bill, without at all an opinion on the amendments made between first and second readings, I quote verbatim: "No matter what, we believe that the regime for the control and registration of the already implemented activities, namely the built stations and their refurbishment, should have a place in the Electronic Communications Act. This is an opinion from Minister Petya Avramova at the moment. This is the first before I went on to the substance of the Bill and the texts. The second to which I would like to draw attention is about the Ministry, which supports the dropout or at least does not comply with the presented bill................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 151, para. 5 That is to say, what is requested with the refueling, with the new technology, should be refined, which has not been done between first and second reading, except for cosmetic repairs, as it is not clear what will be subject to registration before the authorities of the state health control. I stress the health control and how it will be verified, that is, no one guarantees how the maximum levels of electromagnetic fields will be respected. It is very interesting that between first and second reading in the Law, what has been done is added the word "compliance" to the health standards and requirements, but without specifying what are the relevant legal and technical methods and which regulations will specify it. This is only part of the opinions of the Council of Ministers or at least part of the Council of Ministers and this is only the first reading of the Bill. For a second reading of the Bill, we have no official opinions either of the Ministry of Regional Development or of the Ministry of Health and, above all, of the Ministry of Environment and Water. Because the bill thus presented, which enables the re-use of the "re-use" is not defined in the Law on Device in the Area, it is not as a legal basis to be implemented, in itself creates a whole new network. None of us are opposed to the development of new technologies. Absolutely no one! It is normal for Bulgaria to retain its top positions in this regard, but not in this way. Not in the way of skipping the Law on Floor Property, because ultimately the owners will only be notified without having a real opportunity to exercise their right to property, i.e. to appeal the relevant legal act in this case the lack of a building permit. It is not right and it is not normal for a new technology system not to be judged by the EIA. Because the Environmental Protection Act has and requires that any investment intention falling within the scope of the same law be subject to EIA. What you are telling us with this amendment of the Law is that you are giving an ultra-fast track, violating the Law on Floor Property, violating the Law on Environmental Protection and, above all, not in place, its deployment is in the Law on Structure of the Area. So it is good before we go to the vote, to give yourself a clear understanding of what we are doing after all. We serve several operators or protect the interests of Bulgarian citizens who will eventually be subjected to broadcasts and lack of sufficient information about what will be built. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u112	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. - What's the line? I can't see. Statements? Mr. Shopov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u113	Madam President, I will be very brief and will divide the time, because I think there should be an opportunity for other independent MPs to speak, as I think we have a difference on the subject and on the subject. It's not about another network, it's about the 5G network, it's about that. Yeah, that's it, that's where we're going after all. On this issue, opinions in society and around the world are highly polarized and divided and opposing. If this network matters and facilitates perhaps citizens, it also has a very different, very negative impact on people's health. The comparison is that people actually find themselves in a microwave. These are the broadcasts that are being created. One of the theories about the coronavirus is that the stronger and more severe influence is the theory, of course, where there is a 5G network. That's why I'm going out and stating my negative attitude to this text, so it goes very quickly, very criminally. As is done very often in such cases, it is not subject to widespread public discussion and knowledge of people, as importers are aware that there will be a very negative attitude towards it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u114	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u115	Mr. Shopov, I'm making a line for you, not a special statement, so you can take the attitude if you want, then. But the truth is, this text does not apply to the 5G network. Moreover, on my proposal, a special paragraph was made to prohibit the change of networks from one generation to another without the explicit validation of the new CRC technology. So we have one brake and one future warranty before the introduction of this technology. We know that there is no 5G cell anywhere in Bulgaria to go through the relevant competent state institutions and to have a clear message to people about what is being imported, what are the harmful or beneficial effects, does it have any impact on health? 5G cannot be imported unnoticed on the basis of these texts. That's what I want to guarantee you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u116	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. A hole? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Nenkov, come in for a statement. You will have the opportunity now, since I took this opportunity away from you just now.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of our parliamentary group, the GERB Group, we will support the proposal for amendments to the Law on Construction on the territory for several reasons. A few things have already been said just now, which to some extent we agree with. Undoubtedly, what is important and what is most important to society is the preservation of human health. Undoubtedly, the Law speaks only of the fact that we are giving administrative relief to the existing ones, only, I stress, only that existing such transmissions are not required by building permission when they are subject to replacement, repair activities or possibly when it comes to some new type of technology, then they are indeed the brake that we support, made by Mr. Veselinov is the CRC to give this coordination, that there is no other possibility of building the so-called 5G system without being subjected to a serious public debate in society. I would like to make it clear that the texts, which I dare say, have been expressed a theory that there have hardly been debates and that they have been quickly spent on the contrary, we have been discussing these texts for many months already. We also had a number of meetings with all the institutions concerned, including the Ministry of Health, the Communications Regulation Commission, all other stakeholders and I believe that the texts guarantee an administrative relief. So agree with me that you can't exactly in this article that we're referring to - 151 of ZUT, that's what this is. 16, which means 15 points before this regulation is precisely not to require a construction permit for something that has already been built and which does not change the essence of the investment project or violates the structure, to ask again to go through this whole procedure. As far as we know and what the operators have provided us as information, Bulgaria is one of the countries, certainly the last of the Balkan Peninsula and one of the last countries in the European Union, which has not gone through such a legislative decision, which is precisely for existing base stations, how to modernise them. As far as the idea that this is almost a preparation for the entry into force of some new 5G technology or any other technology is concerned, it is not true. Let us not deceive the public about the so-called 5G system yet to come, the operators do not even have the frequency at which to broadcast and build this system. We are only talking here about the construction part of the existing network and how to ease this procedure. However, let us not forget that a larger percentage of the territory is not yet covered even by the current 4G system. So many of the antennas are currently working on 2G, 3G and naturally, we have to give the opportunity? people expect to have good access to the Internet and data transfer. And naturally, this amendment will also help improve the existing network without even talking about any new kind of technology. Moreover, when we talk about 5G, there is still a European Commission decision and a regulation to adopt certain rules that all European countries must comply with. So we're still very far from introducing some 5G technology. And as for these texts, we will support them because they are an administrative relief and I see no problem in that. After all, it makes no sense that you would have gone through a procedure for a year, a year and a half, not to say that sometimes and more, to build one such base station and subsequently, only to replace some of the equipment, someone would require you to do the same procedure. I think that it is absolutely not necessary that this is enough, of course, not to endanger the lives and health of people, as long as it is not in any way constructively altered, so that it is society that is affected. Colleagues, I believe that the text is quite balanced and reasonable with all its rules, including what Mr. Veselinov said. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u118	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. Mr. Bonev, a line or a statement? Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u119	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Nenkov, you are absolutely right for now the construction unit, it is through the construction unit that sets up all the rights, the rights of the owners. I have repeatedly asked you to stop hiding behind the administrative burden. The law on construction of the territory clearly and categorically determines the time limit for the issue of construction permit. Stop hiding behind this! Understand it! On the one hand, we avoid the EIA procedure entirely. As of now, operators are launching investment intentions for refurbishing stations. These are facts, they can vouch for your parliamentary group there are also ministers. From now on, this fast track, which is being given, yes, perhaps the European Commission will give us a sanction, may not give us, in negotiations, but why do we do it?! Why are we rushing him? Why are we denying people the possibility that if they don't agree with the building permit issued to refurbish a station, they should seek their rights in a court of law? Alert mode! Why a notification? Make it authorized. Why are most of our regimes our permits, that's why we're notified?! Everyone explains that they do not agree to make this legal amendment...the CRC put a brake on it. Well, in the CRC one and a half years cannot start working the single information point, and now in the following texts we will vote on a new register, so please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u120	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Mr. Nenkov, will you do the back? Another line? Mr. Danchev has a line for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Nenkov, I would like to ask you to answer, within this line I am making to you, the question: is the text so proposed and supported by the Commission not also creating prerequisites for creating some speculation with this situation being introduced? What do I mean? In your view, is it not possible for an operator to request registration, as you said, of the cheaper and more accessible 2, 3, 4G technology and then suddenly, suddenly, a month after receiving the authorisation to place the facility concerned, to change its decision and to request its replacement with a more modern one from a new generation? That's one of my questions. The second question is quite specifically related, it is rather a line to the importer of this proposal, because this text is still present in Mr. Panchev's proposal. There is talk of compliance with health standards and requirements. Several opinions have come to the Commission, which were, of course, one of the most serious topics discussed under this legal proposal, but it has never been clear what these legal health standards and requirements are. Who are they? Where are they scheduled, in which legal act? And how will they be observed by the future investor who will develop or replace these facilities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u122	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Third line? I can't see. Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Back and forth. Mr. Danchev, you are a young, active, modern man. I believe that you are aware that the development of the network is part of the development of our economy, of our society, and of course we must follow this trend with the clear awareness that it must naturally be with the great public knowledge and with a serious debate on how it could possibly have a negative impact on health and human life. It is no coincidence that I have just mentioned that the European Commission is currently preparing such requirements that these new types of technologies -- 5G, 6G, 7G -- because it will not end with this 5G technology, respectively what requirements and criteria they must comply with, and they will be generally available rules for each European country. The second that has been done is almost as if someone is hiding behind some administrative relief. Look, I didn't say for a reason that this is a text that concerns the construction part of things. It's not about any kind of technology at all, it's not about technology. Because it doesn't make sense and it doesn't happen for a reason. 151 has 15 points, except when it is not necessary to have a new construction permit. That is why we believe that for such a base station absolutely, and in my opinion, it is not necessary to go all the way again, as long as it is constructively strong enough, not to change its construction, its load, so that it threatens people in any way. Moreover, the property rights that you mentioned a moment ago relate to contracts, because each antenna has some kind of contract with floor property and in no way, on the contrary, we even insisted that our parliamentary group should be able to reduce the modernisation itself, but it must be with the knowledge and agreement of the floor property, because this, in the primary version of the bill, was not available. As far as health standards are concerned, for the first time, we are re-entering our common desire by the Commission to have such a register as is built online, as this is a sensitive subject, to be able to know on the roof over it at any given time what is the broadcast and what are the frequencies on which this transmission antenna is working, so as to be calm that they are in the norms as required by the Ministry of Health and also in the future regulation, the European Commission, the European Parliament will most likely, within the next year, come up with these rules. So we shouldn't mix construction, because I think it's an unnecessary administrative burden, there's no one behind it, to modernize the existing system, not a future one.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u124	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Colleagues, we're going to vote. First, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Manol Genov. They voted 102 MPs: 20, against 72, abstention 10. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version of § 2, which shall become § 5 of the Commission Report. They voted 106 MPs: 86 against 14, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Manol Genov. They voted 101 MPs: 21, against 71, abstention 9. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version of § 3, which shall become § 6 of the Commission Report. Vote 96 MPs: 82 against 11, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u125	According to § 4 there is a proposal from the National Representative Spas Panchev. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Manol Genov and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 4 to fall." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 237 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 is created t. 8. It's 8 o'clock. to an electronic communications network operator engaged in activities under art. 151, para. 1, t. 16 in violation of art. 151, para. 4, 5, 7, 8 or 9.... from 1000 to 10 000 BGN.................................................................................................... 2. In para. 3 after the words "In case of default" is added within a period, after the word "debts" is added "or when providing incomplete or inaccurate data" and the words "of 1000 BGN" shall be replaced by "of 1000 to 2000 BGN." 3. A new para is being created. 4. The mayor of the municipality, the governor of the district, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Interior, the Chairman of the State Agency of National Security and the Chairman of the State Agency of Intelligence imposes a penalty of BGN 2000. to the relevant operating company requesting payment for the provision of output data, opinions, objections, prescriptions or other information in the cases referred to in art. 125, para. Art. 4, Art. Art. 128a and under art. 140a, para. 3. 4. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5. Proposal from the National Representative Spas Panchev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to set up a section of "Concluding provisions" with § 8 and 9: "Concluding provisions' § 8. In the Law on Electronic Communications (promise, SG No. ...) the following additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 33 are created. 5, 6 and 7: The Commission shall establish and maintain a register of mobile reception and transmission stations. The circumstances to be recorded, the conditions and arrangements for keeping, maintaining and using the register shall be laid down by a Commission regulation. (6) The operator of the electronic communications network shall be obliged to submit an application for registration to the Commission within 14 days after registration with the authorities of the state health control in accordance with the Health Act and its implementing regulations. (7) The Commission shall inform the mayors of the respective municipalities and regional health inspections of the registration under para. 6................................................ 2. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 334e: Art. 334e. For violation of art. 33, para. 6 a fine or penalty of 500 to 5000 BGN is imposed § 9. The Communications Regulation Commission shall establish the register and adopt the regulation under art. 33, para. 5 of the Law on Electronic Communications within 6 months of the entry into force of this Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u126	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Dear MPs, what we are against the texts is that the mayors of the municipalities have responsibility. It is clear from the opinion of the Association of Municipalities that they do not have the capacity, they do not have the wording and they do not have the knowledge to be able to make removals. I'm shutting down the technical capability. The other is the lack of legal basis. The whole arrangement and idea of what we're being offered is that these constructions can't be illegal. That's why he was sent to art. 195, not in the provisions of art. 223 and 224, which represent illegal construction. Even before the adoption, we already guarantee that everything will be okay, which I highly doubt. The other thing about the municipalities and the functions they are involved in is that the mayors of the municipalities will be subject to notification by the Communications Regulation Commission without them having any right to establish and establish the stations. Because we spoke at the previous point about rights, even in the case of a complaint by the residents, the only body that will verify whether a station is refurbished, untrained, legal or illegal can say so, CRC, which in itself is absurd! So since the adoption of the amendment to art. 151 and its transition to art. 195 I don't think it's right and that shouldn't be accepted. The other very important, accepting the reception and transmission stations to be in art. 151 of the LU, i.e. without the issue of a building permit, I stress without issuing, is that from a third category of object which is a supervisory subject to state acceptance, we end up getting support walls like the sea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u128	Thank you. - What's the line? Mr. Danchev has a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bonev, I understood what you wanted to say, but it seems to me that it is also appropriate for the people outside this room to make some clarification. It is important to say that now, with this proposal, which has been made, the Communications Regulation Commission is being introduced to maintain a new register. A new register which is obviously unrelated to the one created in the special Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure two years ago by this National Assembly a single information point. The completion and functions of the single information point shall be within the authority of the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. It is obvious that by filling in the data in this single information point in the last two years there have been serious problems, including in response given by the Minister of Transport to an up-to-date question, it has become clear that much of the operators do not submit up-to-date information and do not maintain what is required in the Law as data in this information point. It is therefore interesting to me how now the importer of this proposal relies that the Communications Regulation Commission will solve this issue and this register will function better than this single information point. It doesn't make sense to me how this is going to happen. Therefore, I ask that you, too, perhaps, as an expert in the subject, give an explanation of what is expected on this subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u130	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Mr. Bonev, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u131	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Danchev, yes, it does provide for registration in an entirely new register, which should be able to step on the basis that at present all stations in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria are filled in in the missing specialized cards at the Cadastral Agency or at the single information point. That's up to now. Those are the facts. So from here on out, no matter how many registers we create, whatever equilibristics we do in the Law with words like "replaced," "translating," it all comes down to that really above all... Again, I stress that we are in no way against the improvement and modernisation of mobile or any telecommunications networks, we would even support them. We would support them, but not like this.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u132	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Let's move on to the vote, fellow Members. I first put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Manol Genov and a group of MPs. Vote 96 MPs: 21, against 67, abstention 8. The offer is not accepted. I am now putting to the vote the version of § 4, which becomes § 7, and the final provisions which have been put to the vote by § 8 and 9. Voted 103 MPs: 86 against 15, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Moving on to point three: ANNUAL REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE HIGH JUDGE COUNCIL FOR 2019 Mrs. Alexandrova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Please, on the basis of art. 49 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to put to the vote the admission to the plenary of Mr. Boyan Magdalinchev who is the Supreme Judicial Council, Mrs. Teodora Tochkova, Chief Inspector, Mr. Ivan Geshev, Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mr. Georgi Cholakov, Chairman of the Supreme Administrative Court, and Mrs. Lozanne Panov, Chairman of the Supreme Court of Cassation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Please vote. I just want to make it clear to my fellow Members that, after we vote, the invited persons will be invited to the House. Perhaps some of them will come a little later because the debate that we expected at the first two points took a long time and several times I had to have a conversation with the ladies and gentlemen of the judiciary to postpone their arrival. Thank you for understanding. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u135	Thank you, Madam President. "COMMODITY" on the Annual Activity Report of the Supreme Judicial Council of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 011-00-9, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 29 May 2020. At its meeting held on 17 June 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Annual Activity Report of the Supreme Judicial Council of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 011-00-9, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 29 May 2020. The meeting was attended by Mr. Boyan Magdalinchev who presented the Report on the activities of the Supreme Judicial Council for 2019. He noted that it takes into account what was achieved in the second year of the term of office of this Eighth Chamber of the Supreme Judicial Council and reveals the good practices of the previous Chambers. This Chamber shall direct its efforts to establish an independent, impartial, effective and transparent judicial system subject to public interest. In this regard, he pointed out the substantial changes set out in the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judicial Authority, drawn up in July 2019, which concern the improvement of the rules on the attestations and competitions of magistrates, the revision of the rules on disciplinary punishment, removal from office, posting and status of inspectors in the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council. Those provisions entered into force in February 2020 following a broad discussion among the Magistrate Community. In 2019 the Supreme Judicial Council carried out two key tasks with particular importance, both for the general public and for the magistrates. The first is the successful procedure for the selection of a new Prosecutor General and the second is the establishment of the Partnership Council, which aims to conduct dialogue on all issues relating to the professional interests of judges, prosecutors and investigators. Mr. Magdalinchev explained that the report reflects the activities of the Judges and Prosecutors' Colleges at the Supreme Judicial Council, as well as of the Standing Committees to them, according to the powers of the relevant College. In 2019, the Commission has held 26 meetings where decisions have been discussed and adopted in several guidelines: optimizing the structure of the courts by submitting a proposal to the College of Justice of the Supreme Judicial Council to close two first instance military courts; forming a working group to prepare analyses of the level of workload of the military courts; transforming the structure of the regional courts and reform of the judicial map in order to unite regional courts or their merger to a larger body of the judiciary; implementing effective measures to deal with the uneven workload. It has been noted that a central place in the work of the Commission is the Court card and the workload of prosecutors and investigators and prosecutors in 2019 occupy activities related to amendments and additions to the Rules for measuring the individual workload of each prosecutor and investigator. By decision of the Commission, an updated list of the boundaries of the judicial districts in the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria has been adopted with effect from 1 January 2020. With regard to the activities of the Committee on Testimonials and Competitions at the College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council, the Report states that for the reporting period the number of courts has been optimized. A total of 10 competitions were announced in the judicial authorities for 95 vacant posts. In 2019, a decision of the Commission on the attestations and contests of the Judicial College opened a total of 386 procedures for attestations and a total of 239 procedures were carried out. During the reporting period on a proposal from the Commission on the attestations and contests of the Prosecutor's College of the Supreme Judicial Council, the Prosecutor's College has announced four contests in the judiciary authorities for a total of 103 vacant posts. In 2019, a decision of the Committee on Appeals and Competitions to the Prosecutor's College opened a total of 357 procedures for attestations, and a total of 295 procedures were carried out and completed. The report contains detailed information and data from the work of the Committees of the Judicial Administration at the Judicial and Prosecutor's Colleges, as optimizing the state number of the judiciary is part of the policy on human resources management and related processes in the judiciary bodies. In connection with the administration of the budget of the judiciary, Mr. Magdalenchev stressed that the report contains specific information on the activities of the Commission "Budget and finance" and the budget of the judiciary in the financial year 2019 amounts to 109,7 million. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. During the reporting period at the Commission, the management of ownership at the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council was examined 164 reports with proposals to the Plenum for adoption of decisions on issues related to the organisation of the property management of the judiciary. In connection with the Investment Programme of the Supreme Judicial Council for Construction and Main Repair of Fixed Material Assets, 187 files were examined. In 2019, the Supreme Judicial Council continued its efforts to introduce e-Justice. The report takes account of the Commission's activities "Professional qualification and information technologies" at the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council, focusing on the renewal of the maintenance contract of a Central Web-based interface for the publication of judicial acts, projects carried out by the Supreme Judicial Council in connection with the implementation of e-Justice, data to secure the judicial authorities with computer and peripheral equipment. It was pointed out that in 2019 the Committee on Professional Ethics at the Judicial College examined a total of 112 files on complaints and signals of citizens. The total number of cases of complaints and alerts of citizens examined by the Professional Ethics Committee of the Prosecutors' College is 64. Mr. Magdalinchev noted that a significant reduction of the disciplinary proceedings against judges was reported. In 2018, the total number of proposals submitted for disciplinary proceedings was 12 and in 2019 were four, with 14 disciplinary proceedings completed from previous years. During the reporting period, the Prosecution College, on a proposal from the Prosecution Board for disciplinary activity and interaction with the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council, has initiated six disciplinary proceedings, which shows a reduction of the same from the previous 2018, with 25 pieces. The completed disciplinary proceedings are 17, including from previous years. A trend has been established to increase the activities of the Committee on Legal Affairs, and draft opinions on nine draft laws, five draft regulations and five draft acts of the Council of Ministers and other central authorities of the executive body concerning the judiciary have been developed during the reporting period. Opinion was delivered on four draft internal and other rules of the Supreme Judicial Council. Draft opinions on two constitutional cases have been drawn up for the period. In relation to the procedure for the election of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria and in accordance with the Rules for the Election of the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, President of the Supreme Administrative Court and Prosecutor General, the Committee on Legal Affairs is adopted to summarize the questions received by the Supreme Judicial Council over 100 questions and opinions. The report also takes into account statistics on international activity, participation in international projects and programmes and provides information on progress in implementing the Judicial Communication Strategy 2014-2020. Mr. Magdalinchev pointed out that during the international activity carried out through the Directorate-General for International Cooperation and Protocols, the activities related to the Cooperation and Assessment Mechanism, the projects of the Supreme Judicial Council related to multilateral international cooperation, the data on international and interinstitutional cooperation were taken into account in the Report. With regard to the implementation of the Judicial Communication Strategy 2014 - 2020 the report notes that a focus in the communication policy of the Supreme Judicial Council for 2019 was the establishment of the Partnership Council of the Supreme Judicial Council, the conduct of the procedure for the election of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria and the completion of the second stage of the judicial map reform, which were also in the focus of public and media interest, NGOs and word organizations. Information on the communication programs is also presented in the Supreme Judicial Council and in the bodies of the judiciary and the Educational Program jointly held with the Ministry of Education and Science. Open Courts and During the discussion the people representative Krum Zarkov raised questions regarding the uneven workload of the courts. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 22 votes for the Council of the Republic of Bulgaria, without the Council of Justice on 29 May 2020, supported an Annual Report on the activities of the Supreme Judicial Council of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 011-9, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 29 May 2020, and proposed to the National Assembly a draft decision on it with the following wording: Project! DECISION adopting the Annual Activity Report of the Supreme Judicial Council for 2019 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 30, para. 2, p. 11 of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED Adopt the Annual Activity Report of the Supreme Judicial Council for 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u136	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Statements? Mr. Zarkov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u137	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, honourable gentlemen of the Supreme Judicial Council! We are discussing the Annual Report of the Supreme Judicial Council, but there are several more reports on the agenda of today's sitting that actually need to be dealt with both individually and generally because they provide data on what happened in our judicial system in the various components of the Supreme Judicial Council in the past 2019. This way of discussion, which is procedurally the only possible, does not allow, naturally, to go into the details of each of the reports, but in the Legal Committee for several hours we have discussed each of these reports and the stenogram is already available, so I call on everyone who is really interested in the position of the various parliamentary powers, as well as the position of the various institutions, to get acquainted with them, because there are much more clearly expressed the various issues, criticisms and problems that we discussed in Parliament during this procedure. Moreover, the procedure concerns a period of time gone by in 2019, today we are 1 July 2020, so the vote on these reports should be taken as an acceptance for information of certain data and not as a political sign of any nature. Therefore, the reports, I suppose, should be unanimously adopted, because the data that is written in them is not questioned. The questions on interpretation, interpretation of data and what they give us from now on, and therefore specifically on the Annual Report on the activities of the Supreme Judicial Council, without repeating the debate we had in the Commission, I would like to say the following few things. First of all, it would be impractical to say that nothing was done in 2019, many things have been done, steps have been taken in different directions, but we should also find that the issues that stood before our judicial system three years ago, when one of the first important acts of this edition of the National Assembly was the drawing up of a new Supreme Judicial Council, are still on the agenda of the Supreme Judicial Council, the issues of budgeting in the judiciary and its programming character, and the questions of the workload of judges and the judicial map, and a particularly sensitive issue which is the atmosphere in which the Supreme Judicial Council functions, the signals that it emits to our overall society. Unfortunately, we have to note that the new composition of the Supreme Judicial Council has failed to emerge from that ruse, in which it was sunk and the previous composition of heavy oppositions, of inappropriate scandals, of interpersonal attacks which we are also observing in this room, here, but are even less acceptable in an authority that should be leading with its expertise, with its objectivity, because this, under the Constitution, is the government of the judiciary, and not a political body. The political authority is us. I would therefore conclude with the following: we will support the Report on the activities of the Supreme Judicial Council in 2019, but we remain with strong requirements for both the way of work and the results achieved. Bulgaria continues to have severe problems with its judiciary. These problems are not only an internal problem, they also create a negative image of our country abroad. It is up to each of us to overcome Parliament, the judiciary, the government. For this, the first condition is a radically different way of dialogue between institutions and within institutions in search of a solution to the problem and not artificial oppositions. And if possible, abandoning the personal ego in the name of the higher goal, and she is the Bulgarian citizen to know that she will be tried by objective, impartial and professional bodies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u138	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u139	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable magistrates! We will also support this report and the other reports on the activities of both the administrative courts and the prosecution and the so-called common courts. I very much agree with what has been said so far in the debate by colleague Zarkov, but it is still appropriate, in my opinion, that several nuances and details should be made. Yes, indeed one of the main problems found in the Report of the Supreme Judicial Council is no secret to anyone and this is the workload of the courts. However, in order to resolve this problem, it is not enough that we are doing so far as a legislative body with changes in the procedural laws, not that little has been done, on the contrary, quite decisive steps and actions have been made in this regard, but also the optimization of the judicial card in relation to courts. Unfortunately, in this optimization with regard to courts there is one lag, unlike prosecutors. Later, when we hear the Prosecutor General's report on the prosecution's activities, we will find that, in fact, by the end of this year, the optimization of the judicial card in relation to the structures of the prosecution will largely be over. Unfortunately, that won't be a fact for the courts. This, again unfortunately, will bring the Supreme Judicial Council, most likely the next Chamber of the National Assembly and all Bulgarian citizens to quite severe consequences, because the longer the optimization of the judicial card with regard to the courts, the more difficult this reform will become. It is necessary and sooner or later must be done, of course, after a broad public debate. Next, I would disagree with the finding that the Supreme Judicial Council itself is a generator of scandals. The fact that there are individual members of the Supreme Judicial Council who cause such scandals and wish to have such scandals naturally casts a stain on the Supreme Judicial Council with its conduct and with its actions, it should not be summarized and labeled on the entire composition of the Supreme Judicial Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u140	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Mr. Magdalenchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u141	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I will just say that I share some of the findings that have been made on the activities of the judiciary and the work of the Supreme Judicial Council. I share what the People's Representative Krum Zarkov said about the delay in the judicial card in relation to the courts, and there is also a delay in the uneven workload for the activities of some of the courts in the country. The main problem facing us is the problem with the Sofia courts. The problem of uneven workload does not lie so much for the rest of the country and the other courts. It is well known to you that in Sofia is concentrated a large part of the population of the country due to a number of indicators and a number of reasons. This, of course, also provides for the greater number of cases to be conducted by the Sofia courts. We are trying in several different ways to compensate this thing, but obviously the methods and methods we have been practicing so far are not the best in this direction. We tried to post judges from less busy courts in the Sofia District Court and the Sofia City Court. We tried in the order of art. 194 to be transferred from a less entrusted body from the judiciary to a larger body in charge than the judiciary. We have tried through some legislative changes to compensate for things. However, the workload continues to remain greater, but we realize that with the constant increase in the number of some busier courts with more magistrates does not make this body better functioning. The truth is, for example, in the Sofia District Court, the number is 800 people, of whom the judges are 203. Such a large body becomes difficult to manage, not in the sense of administration only. It is a question of not being able to monitor the effectiveness of the work and the timely closure of cases, which is the main function of the court to resolve legal disputes with citizens. Therefore, perhaps together with everyone, including I think, and with the legislative authority, consider redecorating the map in other ways or with legislative changes. We have said many times and commented in the SJC that a large part of the number of cases that determine and the greater degree of workload are so-called order procedures. In some cases they are 50, 60 and 70% of the total number of civil cases. This generally did not constitute any legal or factual complexity. Now things have changed, but it doesn't seem to have led to much more change. On the contrary, the latest legislative change in the field of order proceedings has made things a little more complicated. For this reason, I think that some good legislative changes in this direction, if they are judged and considered, I am more than sure that the workload will drop sharply. This question is legal and is not only a matter of will of the Supreme Judicial Council or, in particular, of the College of Judges. He is absolutely right, Mr. Mitev, in relation to the fact that the prosecutors' college started before the Judicial College with a stronger start, this is how things are going for next year. Yeah, things are different there. The College of Judges also discusses various possible options on the issue of restructuring the judicial card, whether by closing a lower or smaller number of cases of courts, either as a moment of a smaller court to another, i.e. the mechanisms can be different. However, I believe that one of the main points in this direction for changing the uneven workload will be the legislative change, which can be discussed in a calm manner with both the National Assembly and the MPs. Otherwise, I share other things, but I don't share the fact that we're generating scandals. We are trying, this Chamber of the Supreme Judicial Council has been trying for a long time to be tolerant of some speeches, of some provocative statements regarding the Supreme Judicial Council. Either way, at some point, things have changed a little or a lot, and they're very different from what was accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u142	Thank you, dear Mr. Magdalenchev. Colleagues, we're heading for a vote. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. I shall put it to the vote: Project! DECISION adopting the Annual Activity Report of the Supreme Judicial Council for 2019 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 30, para. 2, p. 11 of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED Adopt the Annual Activity Report of the Supreme Judicial Council for 2019 Please, voting mode. They voted 106 MPs: for 106, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Moving to the fourth item of today's agenda: REPORT ON THE ACTION OF THE INSPECTOR TO THE HIGH JUDGE COUNCIL FOR 2019 Importer (s) The Supreme Judicial Council, 29 May 2020 Here you go, Mrs. Ilieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u143	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I will introduce you to: "COMMODITY" of the Committee on Legal Affairs on a report on the activity of The Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council for 2019 At its meeting held on 17 June 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Report on the activity of the Inspectorate at the Supreme Judicial Council for 2019, No 011-00-7, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 29 May 2020. The meeting was attended by: from the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council: Mrs. Teodora Tochkova, Chief Inspector, and Mr. Ignat Georgiev, Inspector of the Supreme Judicial Council: Mr. Boyan Magdalinchev, Chairman; from the Ministry of Justice: Mr. Danail Kirilov, Minister; from the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria: Mr. Ivan Geshev, Chief Prosecutor; from the Supreme Administrative Court: Mr. Georgi Cholakov, Chairman; from the Supreme Court of Cassation: Mr. Lozan Panov, Chairman, and from the Institute for Market Economics: Ms. Ekaterina Baxanova, legal expert. The report on the activities of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council for 2019 was presented by Mrs. Teodora Tochkova, who noted that in 2019 the Inspectorate carried out 83 checks in the judicial authorities in four appeals areas, verifying the activities of the judiciary bodies for 2017 and 2018. It was stated that during the reporting period the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council carried out its annual programme for 2019 by performing 71 complex planning checks, of which 33 in the courts in civil, administrative and commercial matters, 21 in the courts in criminal cases, 17 in the prosecutions and district investigation departments in the district prosecutions, including the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office. In 2019 the complex planning inspection of the Supreme Court of Cassation in civil and commercial matters, carried out in the period 15 October 2018, was also completed. " 28 February 2019' 5 thematic checks were carried out, 10 random checks were carried out on alerts on civil, commercial and criminal cases and prosecutor's files and 3 self-secution checks. Ms. Tochkova emphasized that during the reporting period at the Inspectorate, a total of 2395 signals of violations by the judicial authorities have been received to the Supreme Judicial Council, and the work on all signals has been completed. With an opinion is responsible for 1028 pieces and 339 additions by signals. In 2019 the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council issued 1 signal for uniformity of the caselaw and prepared opinions on three interpretation cases. Ms. Tochkova added that the checks carried out in 2019 in the judicial authorities have taken into account the discipline of the process and compliance with the procedural deadlines for the movement and completion of the cases and files. A reduction in the number of disciplinary offences committed by the magistrates in the performance of their duties has been found and a very good organisation of the administrative activities of the judicial authorities has also been achieved. It has been found that, for the majority of the courts examined, cases are to be formed on the day of entry of the court papers and are immediately allocated to a rapporteur, subject to the principle of random selection, regulated by art. 9 The Law on the Judiciary. The proceedings were scheduled for consideration in open court and postponed for subsequent meetings between 1 and 2 months. The good organisation of the activities of the courts has allowed systematic control of the movement and closing of cases to be carried out, to monitor procedural deadlines and to report cases to the judges in due time. It has been stated that judicial acts are primarily drawn up within the procedural time limits. Ms. Tochkova noted that a number of positive practices have also been established in the verification of the judicial authorities with regard to the verified prosecutions. All prosecutors examined in 2019 were found to respect the principle of random distribution of prosecutor's files as required by art. 9 of the Law on the Judiciary. The preservation and operation of physical evidence in most prosecutors is in line with the PPC, the instructions and orders of the Attorney General. For the most part of the verified prosecutions, the award and carrying out of the checks under the Law on the Judiciary was within the specified deadlines and in accordance with art. 145, para. 2 of the Law on the Judiciary. The decisions and indictments shall be drawn up within the time limit. In the investigation departments in the verified district prosecutions, it was found that the investigative actions were carried out rhythmically and investigators followed the given prosecutorial instructions. In cases, the investigation shall be carried out within the legal and extended period of investigation. It has been noted that the omissions in the work of the courts and prosecutions are increasingly pointing to an exception. In certain civil proceedings under the jurisdiction of the district courts, a role of the court has been found to be reduced in relation to handlers, parties and persons of authority, which has led to undue delay in judicial proceedings. In isolated cases, some judges have found that they underestimate the short time limits relating to the movement and completion of proceedings under the speedy procedure. It is also stated that individual judges continue to fail to comply with the one-month period under Article 1. 235, para. 5 of the GPC for the judgment and do not comply with the time limits for drawing up the reasons for the verdicts and/or decisions under art. 340 of the PPC in cases of administrative criminal nature. Ms. Tochkova pointed out that the prosecutions examined in 2019 found that part of the files was not sufficiently controlled by the Ministry of Interior's staff in the suspended pre-trial proceedings under art. 244, para. 1, t. 3 of the PPC, not complying with the requirement of art. 244, para. 8 of the PPC, the investigation shall be suspended for a period of not more than one year. It has also been found that, in some cases, the monitoring prosecutors did not exercise the necessary control over the suspended criminal proceedings against an unknown perpetrator. It has also been found that some prosecutors have allowed an uncritical extension of the investigation period in individual pre-trial proceedings, which has led to a breach of the requirement for a reasonable period of time under art. 6, para. 1 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. With regard to the action to deal with applications against infringement of the right to examine and resolve the case within a reasonable period of time. A total of 695 applications were received in the accounting year 2019, 668 constant protocols and opinions were drawn up, with delays in handling and solving cases being established in 364 cases. For another year, it has been found that the main reason for breach of the reasonable time limit for the examination of cases is non-compliance with the established procedural time limits for the proceedings to take place, to move and to close the cases. It was found that during the accounting year 2019 the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council continued to carry out checks on the declarations of property and interests of judges, prosecutors and investigators submitted pursuant to Chapter 9a, Section Ia of the Judicial Authority Act. A total of 4813 declarations were verified and processed and the property of 10 375 persons, including their bank account holdings as at 31 December 2018, and no discrepancies were found between the property circumstances declared with the information received from the relevant public registers which were not removed within a period of time, except two declarations on which additional checks under art. 175h of the Law on the Judiciary. It was noted that as regards the activity of the integrity checks, it should be pointed out that in 2019 a total of 46 files were formed on alerts containing allegations of infringements under art. 175k, para. 4 of the Law on the Judiciary. 14 files have been issued to the Chief Inspector for carrying out an inspection to establish sufficient evidence of an infringement under art. 175k of the Law on the Judiciary, with only one of the checks completed on 31 December 2019 being prepared a report containing an opinion on the existence of sufficient evidence of infringement under art. 175k, para. 4 of the Law on the Judiciary. Ms. Tochkova welcomed that in 2019 the basis for exercising the supervisory powers of the Inspectorate in relation to the protection of personal data in the activities of the judicial authorities was laid. In order to establish a framework for implementing these powers, amendments were made to the Rules of Procedure of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council and to the activities of the administration and experts and a methodology for carrying out checks under the Personal Data Protection Act was adopted. During the accounting year, 30 complaints from data subjects, 13 alerts from citizens, legal persons and establishments containing allegations of infringements committed by judicial authorities and seven requests from administrative heads of courts for expressing an opinion of the supervisory authority on the obligations of the courts for the application of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 and the Personal Data Protection Act have been received and examined. For the reporting period on a proposal from the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council of the Supreme Judicial Council of the Supreme Judicial Council, two disciplinary proceedings have been initiated against judges and one has not been completed and, in the other proceedings, the person drawn to disciplinary liability has resigned, and therefore, by a decision of the College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council has been dismissed from the post of judge on the grounds of art. 165, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on the Judiciary. A total of 28 alerts have been sent to the heads of the courts, the prosecution and the prosecution, and the investigation, containing recommendations for assessment of the need to impose a disciplinary measure under art. 327 of the Law on the Judiciary or of disciplinary punishment under art. OJ L 343, 22.12.2009, p. 1. 1, t. 1 of the Law on the Judiciary. In conclusion, Mrs. Tochkova summarized that the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council is very thorough and responsible for the exercise of her powers, and the real results show that the activities of the body enjoy the support of society, the trust of magistrates and the high assessment of the European institutions, and it is necessary that the control body continue to help achieve rapid, qualitative, predictable and independent justice. After the vote, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 22 votes for the Council of the Inspectorate's Office of the Supreme Judicial Council of 2019 was supported by a Report on the activities of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council of 2019, No 011-07, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council of 29 May 2020 and proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision on it with the following wording: Project! DECISION adopting a Report on the activity of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council for 2019 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 30, para. 2, p. 11 of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED Adopts a Report on the activities of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council for 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u144	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ilieva. I'm opening the debate. Honourable Members, you have the floor for speeches. There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. Mrs. Tochkova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u145	Dear Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I am pleased to report that the Inspectorate is actively working on all its powers in 2019 and has managed successfully in all its fields of activity. I will not repeat the statistics and data that we have reported in the report and which are extremely detailed, but I would like to highlight the positive results of our inquiries in the judiciary in 2019. Very good organization of the administrative activities of the judicial authorities, compliance with the principle of accidental distribution of cases. We have also established in the investigations discipline of the process; compliance with the procedural time limits for examining and closing cases; less and less disciplinary violations by judges, prosecutors and investigators are allowed; some of the acts of our inquiries ended with only positive conclusions and findings; there were no recommendations regarding magistrates; the gaps allowed in the bodies examined are more and more as exceptions. So this good work, I would like to report to the judicial authorities that we have examined, is mainly due to the judges, prosecutors, investigators, their executives, but, of course, also to the efforts of the Inspectorate, who, with its consistent, methodical practice, is working to improve the judicial system. And one more fact I'd like to mention. The Inspectorate in 2019 was adopted as a full member of the European Network of Judicial Inspectorates. The aim of our membership in this network is to exchange experience, good practices, so that our work is subject to the highest standards of inspection activity in order to meet the requirements of Bulgarian citizens to achieve quick, predictable and independent justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u146	Thank you, dear Mrs. Tochkova. Honourable Members, we are going to vote. I vote on the draft decision to adopt the Inspectorate's Activity Report to the Supreme Judicial Council for 2019 as presented to you by the National Representative Maria Ilieva. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Let's move on to the next point: Report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office and the investigating authorities in 2019. The Supreme Judicial Council. You have the floor for the Report and the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u147	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Guests! Your attention: "COMMODITY" The Commission on Legal Affairs on the Report on the Implementation of the Law and the Activity of the Prosecutor's Office and the Investigative Authorities in 2019 No 011-00-8, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 29 May 2020. At its meeting held on 17 June 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a report on the application of the law and the activities of the prosecution and investigating bodies in 2019, No 011-00-8, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 29 May 2020. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Boyan Magdalinchev, Head of the Supreme Judicial Council, Mr. Danail Kirilov, Minister of Justice, and Mr. Ivan Geshev, Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria. The report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office and the investigating authorities in 2019 was presented by Mr. Geshev. The report contains generalized data on the activities of the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office, the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office, the National Investigation Service, the National Bureau of Bulgaria in Eurojust, the Special Prosecutor's Office, the Appeals Specialized Prosecutor's Office, the Military District Prosecutors, the Military Appeals Prosecutors and the prosecutions in the country with common competence. It also contains aggregated data on the activities of investigative police officers, investigating military police officers and investigating customs inspectors. The report presents information on the decisions under the State's liability law and the municipalities for damages and the measures taken to implement the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights and the data from the Annual Report of the Bureau of Protection of the Prosecutor General. The results of cases of particular public interest on corruption and organised crime, crimes related to the involvement of the European Union's financial interests, human trafficking, tax and financial crime, drug trafficking, are analyzed. Specific legislative decisions are proposed necessary to increase the effectiveness in countering corruption and cross-border crime and in protecting the financial interests of the European Union, as well as internal organisational measures to ensure the interaction with the European Prosecutor's Office's authorities at central and local level, including organisational measures to address the identified difficulties. In 2019 there was a reduction in crimes by 6.7% compared to the previous year and 15.9% compared to 2017. According to the Ministry of Interior, the total number of registered crimes in the country in 2019 were 89 742, and in 2018 they were 96 187 and in 2017. - 106,659. The solved crimes during the reporting period were 43 224, in 2018. In 2017 the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union ("the Treaty') and The crime detection rate in 2019 was 48,16%, with an increase of 0.6% compared to 2018 and 4.5% compared to 2017. And in 2019, the crimes against ownership were dominated by 45.7%, followed by the common dangerous ones by 25.8%. Minor growth in economic crimes is 13.4% compared to 12.1% for 2018 and 2017 and to crimes against the person.. 5.6%, compared to 4.8% for 2018 and 4.3% for 2017. In 2019, there was a significant reduction in the crimes related to invading the vehicle by 20.9%, compared to 2018 and by 30.7% compared to 2017. The report states that there is a sustainable trend for reducing registered crime and increasing crime detection rates. Migration processes to major district centres, ageing population and underdeveloped infrastructure in smaller settlements are essential for the level of crime, as a determining criminogenic factor for youth crime is the low level of education resulting from early leaving or not including in the educational system. Mr. Geshev noted that in 2019 prosecutors in the country worked a total of 284 083 files and 212 868 pre-trial proceedings. For comparison, in 2018, prosecutors worked on 275 979 files and 213 109 pre-trial proceedings. A high share of solved case files is maintained compared to the observed 95.7%, at 95.6% in 2018 and 95.9% in 2017. There has been an increase in the signals submitted by control bodies and in 2019 they are 3096 and in 2018. 2499. There is also growth in cases of pre-trial proceedings initiated on the basis of them, which in 2019 represent 3.1% of all pre-trial proceedings. The most important is the number of files formed at the notice of the National Revenue Agency and the Customs Agency. A high proportion of the investigations closed within the deadline is maintained, which for 2019 is 99.66% and there is a decrease in the suspended pre-trial proceedings by 6% compared to 2018 and by 11.6% compared to 2017. The suspended limitation cases in 2019 were 49 195, in 2018. In 2017, they were 39,067. The Prosecutor General pointed out that the prosecution acts submitted to the court in 2019 were 29 149 compared to 30 499 in 2018 and 33 542 in 2017, with 51.7% of them being indictments, 34% The persons handed down to court are 31,993, and in 2018 they are 33, 318 and in 2017. " 37 087. The persons convicted and sanctioned by an entry into force of a judicial act in 2019 were 29,596, in 2018. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. During the reporting period, a significant reduction in the relative share of the cases returned by the court against the submitted prosecutorial acts was found, which for 2019 was 3,1%, for 2018. "3.3%' and for 2017 4.7%. The trend of a negligible proportion of the acquitted persons is maintained, which for 2019 is 2,5% at 2,7% for 2018 and 2017. The main groups of reasons for the return of the cases are: the admission of the pre-trial proceedings to remedy a material breach of procedural rights - 40,5% of the total number of returned cases - found by the court deficiencies in the preparation of the indictment - 32,9%; not approved by the court agreement lodged under the procedure of art. 382 PPC.16.5%; found by the court absence of the grounds under art. 78a NK, when the case has been filed in accordance with art. 375 PPC "8.4%" and non-removement of obvious factual errors (art. 248a, para. 2 PPCs) 1.7% of the total number of cases returned. The analysis of the reasons for the acquittal in 2019 shows that the highest proportion of the acquittal is the acquittal given due to conflicting caselaw, a change of the dominant practice or other circumstances relating to the interpretation of the Law... 33,3%, followed by the acquittal sentences given due to incorrect qualification of the indictment... 28.5%. Next are the acquittal sentences given due to the collection of new evidence in the judicial phase which could not be established at pre-trial proceedings.. 22.1%, as well as due to deficiencies, errors or passiveness in the collection of evidence in pre-trial proceedings.. 15.4%. At least acquittal sentences were given due to omissions and procedural passivity of the prosecutor in the judicial phase or to failure to deliver a relevant protest of 0.7 per cent of all acquittal sentences, compared to 1.6% in 2018. The Attorney General has filed 152 requests under art. 422, para. 1, t. 6 PPCs for the reopening of criminal cases, of which 77 are respected, 8 are disrespectful and 65 are not considered. The decisions in force against the Prosecutor's Office in proceedings on the grounds of art. 2 of the Law on State Responsibility and Municipalities for Damage in 2019 was 331, in 2018. In 2017 the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union ("the EEA Agreement') and in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union ("the EEA Agreement'). * 280. With regard to cases of particular public interest, there is an upward trend of 3.8% compared to 2018 and 16.2% compared to 2017, while the share of convicted persons with an entry into force of a judicial act against all persons with a decreed final act, which has remained above 95% over the last three years. The report states that the excessive duration of the competition procedures does not allow the timely management of local personnel. The focus shall be on the need to provide competent persons and translators with the necessary financial and resource provision for their operation. Attention is paid to the need for a comprehensive update of the substantive legal framework that corresponds to the current socio-economic conditions and technological development. The Prosecutor General emphasized on the need to synchronise Bulgarian criminal legislation with European legislation. In the discussion of the report took part the MPs Krum Zarkov and Yavor Notev. In response to Mr. Zarkov's questions, Mr. Geshev said that a part of the acquittal in cases of public interest is due to the outdated and obsolete compositions in the special part of the Penal Code, which cannot adequately protect public relations, and added that the selection and responsibility of staff, ineffective control mechanisms and political influence in the judiciary contribute to a large part of the acquittal sentences in these cases. Mr. Geshev pointed out that at least three delegated prosecutors should be involved in the activities of the European Prosecutor's Office. Mr. Notev noted that he was impressed by the presented report, by the knowledge of the problems of the institution in detail and said he would support the Annual Report on the activities of the Prosecutor's Office in 2019. Following the debates held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 22 votes in favour, without votes, adopted a Report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office and the investigating authorities in 2019, No 011"8 submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 29 May 2020 and proposed to the National Assembly a draft decision on it with the following amendments: Project! DECISION adopting a Report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office and the investigating authorities in 2019 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 84, p. 16 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 30, para. 2, p. 11 of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED Adopts a Report on the implementation of the Law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office and the investigating bodies in 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u148	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. I'm opening the debate. Honourable Members, you have the floor for speeches. I'm just asking my colleagues to the right a little quieter. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Dear Mr. Geshev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u149	Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Minister, Dear Guests! I will begin by saying that it is an honor for me to be in the Parliamentary Hall of the National Assembly, because in Bulgaria, as a parliamentary republic, the highest institution is parliament. The second reason is that each of you, although with different political biases, is chosen directly by the Bulgarian citizens and should represent the interests of Bulgarian citizens and society. At the risk of repeating some of what has been said so far in the statistical part, I will repeat only a few of the most important points, and only because in Bulgaria the good news is the bad news. Therefore, good news should be repeated in the same way as constantly and permanently true or false, lying, or half-truth, things that do not correspond to the truth. Therefore, I will refer only to some statistical indicators which, although they have been said, will briefly point out and then I will refer to some problematic areas for me, which have not been solved for many years and as a result the Bulgarian society continues to have a sense of injustice and that there are individuals who, for one reason or another, are thus untouchable by law. First of all, I would point out that the investigations last year were completed at 99.6% of them within the statutory deadlines, with over 70% of these pre-trial proceedings being closed and resolved within 7 to 8 months. The positive trend of the return cases is maintained by 10.9% compared to 2018 and by more than 42% for 2017. The relative share of the returned cases compared to the prosecutorial acts submitted to the court is steadily decreasing by 3.1% at 3.3% for 2018. Now I'm focusing on two more statistical indicators. This is the share of the justified persons, which is 2.5% at 2,7% for 2018, and the share of the convicted and sanctioned by an entered judicial act here is 97,5. Without being completely precise, I think we are here, if not at first, in one of the first places in the European Union. I will also address a few important issues, in my opinion, which lie not only before the prosecution, but also before the Bulgarian judiciary. That, if we're only talking about the prosecution, is the process of corrupting the prosecutions. As has been said, the first 11 prosecutors have been overrun by a 2019 decision. At a later stage, 28 district prosecutors have been restructuring. The process has been launched, which we have an ambition to complete for about 40 other prosecutors, except the Sofia District Attorney's Office and the district prosecutors in this judicial area. In this way this process for the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office will be closed. I focus on this mainly because of one circumstance.. except for the reasons for this of demographic and other nature, workload, this is the subject of discussions, not to say our commitments, including the completed Cooperation and Verification Mechanism... [[Reply from MP Krum Zarkov.]] It's a matter of perspective, Mr. Zarkov, whether it's over or not, depending on the political point of view. To continue:... which the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office intends to end at the beginning of next year. It is not a problem of the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office, but it should be said that the court is quite far in this process. And I say this with bitterness, for the simple reason that I foresee that, as a result of various reasons, including international commitments, to call them in this way, which Bulgaria has taken, the social price and any other kind of price that the Bulgarian court will pay for these inevitable reforms will be much more serious, given the short time at which it will have. And you'll see that this is most likely going to happen. I will also focus on several issues which, in my opinion, are important and which are of the functional competence of the National Assembly. My opinion, which I also expressed to the Legal Commission, which I have not stopped expressing as deputy chief and chief prosecutor, is that in most part the Bulgarian Penal Code is morally outdated. I exclude the common part, which is classic, and some well-developed texts in most of the particular part. This Penal Code is mended, if I may say so, I apologize for the expression, dozens of times, and the result is that it regulates and regulates public relations that currently do not exist or does not regulate public relations that have emerged since 1989, that is, about 30 years. Some of the reasons for what Bulgarian citizens expect and perhaps to some extent does not happen is also due to this problem. The Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office intends to present its views in the form of an expert proposal to the National Assembly for the most important changes in the Bulgarian Criminal and Criminal Procedure Code. For the Bulgarian Criminal Procedure Code, I will say briefly to make it clear, and it is a fact that can be clearly shown statistically that the standard of proof in the Bulgarian Criminal Process is the highest I repeat, the highest in the whole European Union. Or, as I have illustrated it, I think that before the Legal Committee, if one unit of evidence is required in Bulgaria, in most countries of the European Union 0.1% evidence is required. Let's put it this way. I have read judgment sentences of a Spanish court, of a German court, of a French court, in which there are terms: the most likely....................................................... in the analysis of the evidence collected...................................................................................................................................................................................... These are judgmental convictions, and they're pretty serious. In the motives of a Bulgarian court sentence this will mean an acquittal. I'm saying this categorically! In this regard, the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office, with my order, has formed a working group for analysis, for proposals for necessary changes in the NK and the PPC, which we will present to your attention. Of course, it is within your functional competence to consider what you think of these so-made proposals when you get acquainted with them. The highlights we will most likely place are related to the crimes of the service, the actual corruption crimes, the bribery in the private sector, the effective use of the personnel resources of the investigators, including those of the National Investigation Service, the military prosecutions with possible expansion of their material competence, the props of the indictment. Here I will open a clamp in my concept before the Supreme Judicial Council I have applied an indictment for money laundering in an English court. Yeah, it's another legal system, not the continental system that we belong to. This indictment consisted of two sides, and in these pages, they weren't even quite written, there were ten or fifteen paragraphs. A Bulgarian indictment for money laundering would be minimum from here to the Court of Justice. I'm looking at the problem. I continue with these things that for us, when I say us, I mean the prosecutor's office is a problem. These are the standard of proof, as I said, the means of proof and the procedural time limits. It is clear to everyone that a successful investigation of organised crime with outdated and traditional means cannot be conducted and it is necessary to provide for a more flexible approach by using cooperating witnesses, a wider range of undercover agents, stimulating the subsequent fair conduct of the bribed person excluding or reducing the criminality, discussing the dropping of criminal liability or the reduction of this punishment for the provocation to bribe. I mean, this isn't extraordinary legislation and something extraordinary. Such legal regulations exist, to call them that, in the leading legal systems of the European Union. So the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office will offer not extraordinary or any innovative proposals, but working mechanisms and good practices from our European partners. Another major problem and goal of the prosecution this year is the so-called domestic and conventional crime. I will not dwell in detail on this part of our work. In the coming weeks, we will report the results, together with the Ministry of Interior, for the first six months and will most likely become clear about a serious decline in this type of crime. We hope that this process will continue and, in the same way, this decline will be on an annual basis. This is the result of the coordinated efforts of the various authorities in the face of the prosecution as part of the judiciary, the Ministry of Interior and other structures of the executive within the functional competence of each of the authorities. And it should be fair to say that, including for the prosecution over the years, this type of crime has not been a priority; I will say it this way, not to use another expression. We are working actively and in light of the volume of the information, and to some extent and of the delay, it must be fair to say that, under the privatization process and post-privatization control, and the first 14 transactions presented to us by the State Agency of National Security, the interview is carried out in two fields of criminal law analysis and analysis under the order of civil judicial supervision, that is to say whether judicial or pre-trial proceedings have been initiated, whether the relevant deadlines for the limitation period have expired and, in the order of civil judicial supervision, in the case of minor transactions concerning the analysis of prosecutors of the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office, we will alert to our conclusions the relevant Ministry. What action it will take and whether it will take to protect the public interest will be an assessment of the respective principal of this ministry. We are actively preparing for the launch of the European Prosecutor's Office by organizationally and methodically ensuring our interaction with the European Prosecutor General, and we will also submit our proposals to the Ministry of Justice for relevant legislative changes, because the truth is that in order to start functioning and fulfill its international commitments, there is a need to amend both the NK and the NPC and the Law on the Judiciary. In short, these are the accents I consider important. With the exception of another one that I may have missed, it is a private case of the situation in the Criminal Code and concerns the so-called transport crimes. In this regard, the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office and I have presented our expert proposal, which I am sure you are familiar with. The situation from the prosecution's point of view appears to be as follows, visible from the statistics on the streets, there is a war on the roads of Bulgaria, with victims of the size of local military conflict, at the risk of repeating it. If three or four years ago there were 50 or 60 cases of driving a motor vehicle after drug use, they are currently, without being absolutely precise, 5000, 6000 or 7000. That is, summated with those for driving a motor vehicle after alcohol use, we go between 10 and 15% of criminal proceedings on an annual basis. That's the percentage of the crimes I've described. What is the share of the real and unsolved crimes.. hardly anyone can answer you, but I suspect the difference is quite substantial. So this is a challenge which the Bulgarian society puts before the law enforcement authorities, before the judiciary, and I am sure you understand that also before the National Assembly. These cases are everyday and no one is insured that what happened to the journalist Milen Tsvetkov and the woman in Samokov will happen. The main means to resolve this problem. Of course, I do not exclude the work of law enforcement authorities, prosecutors and courts are relevant legal changes in this direction, which are adequate to the situation. I will conclude with the fact that I do not believe that increasing criminal liability would solve the problem that I have outlined. This is about a complex of changes not only in the Penal Code, not just and only not, in the direction of increasing punishment. It is a question of clarifying some texts, of changing the Law on Road Traffic, and perhaps, as part of the prosecution's proposals, of sanctions of a financial nature, which are perhaps the most serious incentive to comply with the legal requirements in this regard. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u150	Thank you, dear Mr. Geshev. My fellow Members, I am voting on your submitted draft decision on the adoption of the Law Enforcement Report and on the activities of the Prosecutor's Office and the investigating authorities in 2019. Vote 126 MPs: 120 against 4, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with: REPORT ON THE APPLICATION OF THE LAW AND THE WORK OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE COURTS IN 2019 WITH THE INSTALLATION OF THE Supreme Judicial Council. Mrs. Kostadinova, are you presenting the report? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u151	Dear Mr. Vice-President, Dear Minister, Dear Guests, Dear Members of the National Assembly! I present to your attention: "COMMODITY" to the Committee on Legal Affairs on the Report on the Implementation of the Law and the Activity of Administrative Courts in 2019, No 011-00-5, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 29 May 2020. At its meeting held on 17 June 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Report on the Implementation of the Law and the Activity of Administrative Courts in 2019, No 011-00-5, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 29 May 2020. The meeting was attended by the Chairman of the Supreme Administrative Court Mr. Georgi Cholakov and the Minister of Justice Mr. Danail Kirilov. Mr. Cholakov presented the main highlights in the activities of the Supreme Administrative Court and administrative courts in 2019 and outlined the priorities and overall activities during the reporting period, focusing on ensuring speed, quality, efficiency and facilitating access to the administrative justice of citizens. He stressed that the efforts of the management, magistrates and judicial officers in this direction have led to the regular consequence in the official data of the annual information panel on the results in the area of justice for 2019 in the Member States of the European Union, where Bulgaria is second to the indicator, before our country is only Sweden. The Report takes into account the judicial and interpretation activities of the Supreme Administrative Court (VAS). All statistics of the two colleges of the Supreme Administrative Court are detailed. Mr. Cholakov noted that in connection with the large-scale amendments of the Administrative Procedure Code, promulgated in 2018, a number of orders have been issued in force since 1 January 2019, establishing an organisation for a balanced distribution of cases in the court and ensuring equal workload of judges in the Supreme Administrative Court. It was noted that in 2019 a unit of analysis and interpretation activity was established. During the reporting period, the unit held eight meetings which discussed over 70 files from state authorities, citizens and their organisations, lawyers and judges. As a result of their work 10 interpretations of the General Assembly of the Colleges of the Supreme Court of Cassation were initiated, as well as an interpretation of the General Assembly of the Colleges of the Supreme Court of Cassation. Two constitutional cases have been initiated at the request of the Supreme Administrative Court's plenary, opinions of the VAC's plenary on five constitutional cases and on the Bill on State and Municipal Responsibility for Damage have been presented. In addition, Mr. Cholakov stressed that provisions related to the framework of the video conference in the administrative process were developed. In 2019 the total number of cases to be examined in the SAC was 21 221 and the total number formed was 15 060. The number of substantially solved administrative cases in SAC is 17 239, comparing it to 15 941 in 2018. Mr. Cholakov noted that during the accounting year the trend remains that the number of legal acts drawn up within one month is the highest of 14 890 of the total number of cases done. The period of the judicial decisions drawn up from one to three months is 1910 and over the three-month periods are only 439 cases. The analysis of the statistics presented in the Report shows that there are more closed cases with more than 2000 cases than those formed, which leads to the conclusion that there has been remarkable progress in the legal activity of the SAC. It is also stressed that the trend for the preparation of judicial acts is maintained within the time limit. A total of 97 judges worked at the SAC during the reporting period and two judges were retired. The report provides information on the activities of the administrative courts in 2019, which includes data on cases received and closed during the year for each administrative court, on the quality of judicial acts and the period for the resolution of disputes. In addition, it was noted that the 28 administrative courts provided statistics on: personnel collateralisation, the movement of cases, workload, building fund, as well as the problems in the activities of the court concerned. The average monthly workload of the administrative judges in the Administrative Court of Sofia-City: 24,42 cases per month for 2019, compared to the previous reporting period, were 24,12 cases per month; Administrative Court of Justice Pleven: 24,14 cases per month for 2019; Administrative Court of Pazardzhik: 23,93 cases per month, compared to the previous reporting period they were 20,31 cases per month; Administrative Court of Staff of Vratsa: 23,15 cases per month for 2018; Administrative Court of Justice of Kyustendil: 21,36 cases per month for 2019, compared to the previous reporting period they were 23,75 cases per month; and Administrative Court of Justice of Blagoevgrad: 21,22 cases per month for 2019, compared to the previous period of reference they were 20,64 cases per month. With the slightest workload were the Administrative Court of Justice of Gabrovo: 10,25 cases per month for 2019; Administrative Court of Justice of the European Union: 10,76 cases per month for 2019, comparing for the previous reporting period they were 11,79 cases per month; Administrative Court of Justice of Razgrad: 11,00 cases per month for 2019; Administrative Court of Justice of Yambol: 11,25 cases per month for 2019, compared to the previous reporting period they were 9,69 cases per month; and Administrative Court of Justice of the European Union: 11,29 cases per month for 2019, compared to the previous reference period they were 10,85 cases per month. The analysis of the statistical data presented in the Report on the indicator "Problems in the activities of the court's 28 administrative courts shows that a significant part of the courts do not have significant problems related to the functioning of the court's court, several courts point out that they need an increase in state numbers and others point to problems with the building fund. In the reporting period, a total of 296 Judges worked in administrative courts and they closed 48 793 cases, which had 3000 cases more than the previous year. Mr. Cholakov stressed that in 2019 VAS carried out three projects under the Operational Program "Good management" and independently implemented the project "Assessment of the effectiveness of judicial control over the acts of the administration. Measures to overcome the violation of the right to a fair trial. In partnership with other organizations VAS has participated in the project "Analysis of the interpretive activity of the Supreme Administrative Court of the Republic of Bulgaria," a proposal to amend the Rules for the adoption of interpretive decisions of the Supreme Administrative Court of the Republic of Bulgaria, in accordance with art. 131a of the Law on the Judiciary, in compliance with the principles of transparency, efficiency and legal certainty, with the beneficiary Association of the Bulgarian Administrative Judges and under the project "Innovative products and services in the training provided by the National Institute of Justice" with the beneficiary National Institute of Justice. It was stressed that during the reporting period, SAC and the 28 administrative courts maintained the trend for conducting a pro-active communication policy, the main aim was to strengthen institutional security and increase the public's confidence in administrative justice in the country. Mr. Cholakov pointed out that some of the websites of administrative courts have been updated in order to improve access to information. In conclusion, he noted that administrative justice in the country continues to have an extremely social character, such as its wide accessibility, speed and efficiency allow citizens to establish and defend their rights in a court of law. It was stressed that this circumstance inevitably leads to an extremely high workload of administrative courts, but is a valuable index for the level of democracy in the country and the sense of justice. In the course of the discussion Mr. Cholakov noted that a subsequent assessment of the impact of amendments to the Administrative Procedure Code is being prepared, in the analysis and interpretation work unit, and opinions from all administrative courts and supreme administrative judges were requested for problems in the implementation of the amendments. National Representative Krum Zarkov stressed that he welcomed the initiative of the President of the Court. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 22 votes for the Council, without votes, supported the Report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the administrative courts in 2019, No 011-05, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 29 May 2020, and proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision on it with the following wording: Project! DECISION adopting a Report on the application of the law and the activities of administrative courts in 2019 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 84, p. 16 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 30, para. 2, p. 11 of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED Adopts a Report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the administrative courts in 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u152	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kostadinova. Colleagues, you have a say in this. I can't see. Mr. Cholakov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u153	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm not gonna take any more time out of what was done. In fulfilling my obligations under the Constitution and the Law on the Judiciary, I have presented an annual Report on the activities of administrative courts and the enforcement of the law. I think the report, which was submitted by the Legal Commission, pointed out the highlights in the activities carried out in the Supreme Administrative Court and administrative courts. I would just like to point out that 2019 was a very important year for administrative justice, because from 1 January we started implementing the changes adopted by this Chamber of the National Assembly, the Administrative Procedure Code. Since these were the largest changes to the Administrative Procedure Code that have been made since its adoption, it was important for us to see the very impact of these changes on public relations. I believe that in a law which is adopted, it is important not only the adoption but then an analysis of the impact of these changes on the relevant proceedings. One year was enough as time to see where there are actually problems with these changes. Or, as has been set out in the Report, at the moment in the Analysis and Interpretation Unit, there is a procedure to discuss between all administrative courts and supreme judges for making changes where we see in law enforcement that they are not so appropriate. Of course, we will also rely on the support of the legislature in this procedure, with the very plenary of the Supreme Administrative Court at the end of October to refer to the Legal Committee with proposals if they are recognised accordingly, and it is a matter of broad public discussion about these changes. Because administrative justice is very important as a guarantor of the rights of every citizen against the administration. While in the general administration, however, each party decides whether or not to enter into a judicial dispute, with the exception of the criminal proceedings, this is not at the discretion of the parties, the citizens have no other effective way of protecting against action and inaction of the administration in relation to relations with the administration. I'm not gonna stop at the numbers. The Supreme Administrative Court, following the change, has achieved the first important objective, namely the unloading of judges from the Supreme Administrative Court and the change of conviction and accordingly more equal burden of administrative courts. That's a fact. The fact is as a result of the changes adopted by this Chamber of the National Assembly. The Supreme Administrative Court and Administrative Courts continue to be at the forefront of speed and efficiency of the administration of justice, which I believe should be repeated. We are second among all the European Union member states, with only Sweden in front of us. I believe that this is a fact which is indisputable and is established by international institutions. Our main goal this year, apart from rapid and qualitative justice, was also developing the interpretation activity, which is very important to overcome the problem of conflicting case law, which is still large. 10 interpretation cases have been put in place, which are currently under consideration and we will soon be done with a ruling on them. I thank all fellow judges who have been law enforcement in administrative courts because their work on each of them leads to these good results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u154	Thank you, dear Mr. Cholakov. Colleagues, we're going to vote. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. I'll read the draft decision one more time: Project! DECISION adopting a Report on the application of the law and the activities of administrative courts in 2019 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 84, p. 16 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 30, para. 2, p. 11 of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED Adopts a Report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the administrative courts in 2019 Please, voting mode. Vote 92 MPs: 88, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the last item of today's agenda: REPORT ON THE APPLICATION OF THE LAW AND THE ACTION OF THE COURTS IN 2019 Importer (s) The Supreme Judicial Council, 29 May 2020 Mrs. Sabeva, come and introduce us to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u155	Dear Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Mr. Panov, Mr. Cholakov! I present to your attention: "COMMODITY" on a report on the application of the law and the activities of the courts in 2019, No 011-00-6, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 29 May 2020. At its meeting held on 17 June 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs examined a Report on the application of the law and the activities of the courts in 2019, No 011-00-6, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 29 May 2020. The report shall be drawn up on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 84, p. 16 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 30, para. 2, p. 11 of the Law on the Judiciary. The meeting was attended by: from the Supreme Court of Cassation: Mr. Lozan Panov, Chairman and Mrs. Rosa Georgieva, Head of Cabinet; from the Ministry of Justice: Mr. Danail Kirilov, Minister, and by the Supreme Judicial Council: Mr. Magdalinchev. The report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the courts was presented by Mr. Panov, who outlined data on the work of the judiciary, the judicial map, the building fund, the judiciary administration and emphasized on the distribution of cases and the uneven workload by districts in the country. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u156	Colleagues, please take your seats. It's very noisy in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u157	He summarized that for 2019 the number of all cases to be dealt with by the courts, except those at the Supreme Court of Cassation, was 661 200 pieces and added that 459 478 cases were closed in substance. The suspended proceedings are 79 861 pieces and at the end of the accounting year there are 121 861 pending proceedings. With regard to the work of the courts, it was noted that in the district courts of the district centres, including the Sofia District Court, the number of judges in 2019 was 669 and the number was increased by 9 stats compared to 2018. The total number of cases examined by them was 382 399, of which 308 562 cases were completed, 263 659 cases were closed by act on the substance, 44 903 cases were terminated, 73 837 cases were closed at the end of the year, and the contested and the contested acts were 33 193 pieces. In the matter of the year's issue, a total of 382,399 cases are civil and 96,931 are criminal. Thus, the data show that the average monthly workload for one district judge in the district centers is 56.9 cases to be examined, with the workload at the Sofia District Court being 71.65 cases per month followed by 69.26 cases per month in the District Court of Pernik, 65.52 cases in the District Court of Haskovo, 64.7 cases in the District Court of Plovdiv, and 64.53 cases in the District Court of Pazardzhik. In the other district courts, outside the district centres, the number of judges was 333, the total number of cases examined was 149 578, of which 130 667 cases were completed, 109 879 proceedings were closed by act in essence, 20 788 were terminated and 18 911 proceedings were pending at the end of the year. In the cases at issue, 11 397 acts have been appealed or protested. On matter 106,735 are civil proceedings and 42,843 are criminal. The average workload for one judge in these courts is 43,41 cases per month, with the workload in the District Court................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Over 60 cases per month in the district courts in the cities of Breznik, Chirpan, Peshtera, Ihtiman and Provadia, while the workload in the District Court of Ivaylovgrad is 13,63 cases per month, and a little over 20 cases per month examines a judge in the cities of Krumovgrad, Kula, Chepelare, General Toshevo, Ardino and Topolovgrad. In relation to the activities of district courts, including the activities of the Sofia City Court and the Specialized Criminal Court, it is noted that the total number of judges is 766. During that period, the judges had 110 221 cases to deal with, of which 84 649 cases were completed, 71 331 proceedings were closed by act in substance and 13 318 numbers were terminated. The pending proceedings at the end of the year are 25 572, with 14 948 being appealed or protested. Of the total number of cases dealt with by the district courts and the Sofia City Court, the civil proceedings are 75 660, and the criminal cases are 34 561. In district courts, the average workload is 14,59 cases per month, with the workload of the Sofia City Court being 26,05 pieces per month, and the Sofia Criminal Court - 34,02 cases dealt with by one judge per month. The Courts of Appeal in 2019 included 176 judges, 18 372 cases to be dealt with. Of these 14 870 proceedings were completed, 14 089 were completed by act in essence, 781 were terminated, and 3502 were not completed by the end of the year, with 4493 cases being appealed or protested. Of the cases at issue 13,826 are civil and 4546 are criminal. The average monthly workload of these courts is 9.16 cases of one judge, with the workload of the judges at the Sofia Court of Appeal being 12,57 cases per month, while the judge at the Appeals Specialized Criminal Court examines 4,46 cases per month and in the Court of Military Appeals................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 14 judges worked in the Military Courts in 2019. The total number of cases to be dealt with during the year is 630, of which 591 have been completed. The judges of the military courts ruled 520 legal acts in substance, 71 proceedings were suspended, and 39 cases were pending at the end of the year and 50 were appealed or protested. The average workload of a judge is 3.75 proceedings per month. The long deadlines for conducting and completing competition procedures and the use of the posting institute are set out in the Report. Mr. Panov added that in order to improve the work of the courts in 2019 it is important both the uniform distribution of cases and the number of employees in the courts in relation to the workload of the court concerned, taking into account the specifics of the individual units. The ratio of the judiciary to the number of magistrates for district courts in district centers is 2.83 administrative employees of one judge, and for the Sofia District Court this indicator is 3.01 administrative employees of one judge. In the other district courts outside the district centres this proportion is respectively 4,06 administrative employees of one judge. The capital security of the administrative officers in the district courts is 2.05 employees of a judge, while in the Sofia City Court this indicator is respectively 2.34 administrative employees of a judge. The biggest difficulties are experienced by the appeals courts, where this ratio is on average 1.33 employees of a magistrate, and with regard to the Sofia Court of Appeal the indicator is 1.16, and in the Court of Military Appeal, the attitude is two employees of one magistrate. Another priority for ensuring the work of the judiciary is placed in the Report on the provision of an appropriate building fund and its management. In 2019 there continued to be a shortage of premises for the judicial authorities in the building of the Court of Justice in Sofia, where six courts and units of the Prosecutor's Office were accommodated. There are insufficient premises and it is imperative to take measures to increase the building fund in the Court of Appeal and the District Court in Plovdiv. A financial resource is needed to replace the electrical installation in the building of the District Court, as well as to overcome the shortage of a building fund of the District Court. As a serious account is taken of the shortage of premises in the Appeals Court of Veliko Tarnovo, and the Appeals Court of Varna. The employees of the District Court of Gabrovo and the Appeals Specialized Criminal Court also drink difficulties in this regard. With regard to the activities of the Supreme Court of Cassation Mr. Panov summarized that in 2019 there was a tendency to increase the factual and legal complexity of the pending cases and added that 110 judges were working in the three colleges of the court. The cases that took place during the period were 9244 pieces, together with the total number put forward for the cases under review by the previous year being 13 425. The cases settled during the year are 9046, with cases not completed at the end of the year being 4344. In 2019, the Supreme Court of Cassation initiated 13 interpretation cases and ruled 14 interpretation decisions and decrees by making one request to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria. In the Criminal College of the Supreme Court of Cassation of the State during the year are 31 judges. The total number of proceedings to be examined is 1493. Of these, the completed proceedings are 1200 pieces, 782 are cassation cases and 443 are private proceedings. The cases not completed at the end of the year were 293, of which 803 cases were dealt with in open proceedings, and cases 49.62 per cent were settled within one month, 16.88 per cent were settled within two months and 20.28 per cent were settled after those deadlines. In private proceedings, 89.23 per cent were decided within one month and three pieces were solved within more than two months. The average workload of judges from the Criminal College during the reporting period is 4.2 cases per month in high factual and legal complexity. The results of the cassation check reveal that during the reporting period of the district courts in the Criminal College of the Supreme Court of Cassation 360 cases were received, of which 305 were private proceedings, 47 were requests for reopening and eight cases were for termination. 238 cases of cassation have been received from the district courts, of which 60 counts to resume, and with the greatest share of the cases are the proceedings of conviction. During the period considered, the Criminal College of the Supreme Court of Cassation carried out an examination of 536 acts of appeal, of which 59.5 per cent were put into effect and 72 cases were dismissed and returned for retrial. The Civil College of the Supreme Court of Cassation in 2019 employs 48 judges. The total number of cases to be examined during the period involving cassation and private proceedings shall be 7362. During the year the cases carried out by the college were 5081, of which 3522 were cassation cases and 1559 were private proceedings. Unfinished productions at the end of the year are 2260 pieces. The average annual workload at the Civil College indicates that each judge is involved in the handling of 318 proceedings and is rapporteur on average of 106 cases. At the same time, during the current period, each judge is assigned the reporting to a three-member panel of 153 newly formed and welded cases. The analysis of the work of the Civil College reveals that 320 civil cases have been dealt with, initiated on complaints against decisions of three members of the Supreme Court of Cassation, of which 12 judgments have been annulled, four have been debarred and three have been resolved, and the rest have been left in force. In the case of admission to cassation 74 percent of the Cassation complaints were dismissed and the admissions were 24 percent. Of the acts of appeal received by the Courts of Appeal, 1489 the actions not granted to a cassation appeal are 50 percent, 103 acts have been annulled in full, 33 pieces have been suspended and 126 acts have been revoked in full and resolved. The judgments of the Appeals Courts in force are 297 or 19.95 per cent. The cases sent by the district courts for cassation are 3028 of them, of which 196 were repealed, downgraded and terminated 110 cases were dismissed and 310 were completely solved. 61,92 per cent or 1875 the number of all acts of the district courts and the Sofia City Court are not admitted to cassation. A total of 310 cases of proceedings for annulment of decisions and private complaints against the return of such applications were received by the district courts and 190 were left without respect. The members of the Civil College have examined 25 acts of disciplinary bodies of the Chamber of Private Judicial Artists, of which 13. During the reporting period the Supreme Court ruled on 50 acts of the Supreme Council of Law, of which 41 pieces were left in force and four acts of the Notary Chamber of the Republic of Bulgaria, of which two were left in force. 24 Supreme Judges are working in a Chamber of Commerce in 2019. The total number of cases involving cassation and private proceedings shall be 4570. The commercial proceedings completed during the year are 2765, of which 1573 are commercial cases and 1192 are private proceedings. Unfinished cases at the end of the period were 1791 pieces. During the current period, each Judge of the Commercial College is allocated for an average of 190 cases per year, with an average of 115 cases per year. A total of 307 cases were received from the district courts for cassation. After their admission to cassation 59 callable decisions have been confirmed, canceled completely and returned 25 pieces, canceled entirely and solved 16 pieces, and disenfranchised and terminated 10 pieces. Verified acts in the order of the annulment of decisions taken by the Sofia City Court are 55 pieces, with five requests granted. 2249 cases were brought by the Board of Appeal. Of those admitted to cassation were left in force 402 pieces or 17,98 percent, repealed in full and returned 185 pieces or 8,22 percent, repealed in full and solved were 161 pieces or 7,15 percent, and depowered and terminated 76 pieces making up 3,37 percent. The Minister of Justice gave a positive assessment of the work of the courts and called for support of the Report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the courts in 2019. He drew attention to the sharp trend in reducing the acts of the Supreme Court of Cassation and discussing the belonging of the seconded magistrates to non-governmental organizations. Mr. Magdalinchev stated that the parliamentary quota in the composition of the Supreme Judicial Council, similar to the election of constitutional judges, is a constitutionally established model and guarantees balance and transparency in decision-making. He added that the efforts at the Supreme Judicial Council should be aimed at a real reform of the judiciary. The discussion was attended by MPs Krum Zarkov and Yavor Notev. In response to Mr. Zarkov's question Mr. Panov pointed out that the work of the magistrates and the quality of the judicial acts influence the workload of the judges and the expansion media environment. Mr. Notev pointed out that he would support the report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the courts in 2019 and called for a single solution to the challenges presented by the three authorities. As a result of the vote, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 22 votes in favour of abstention and non-restraint adopted a Report on the application of the law and the activities of the courts in 2019, No 011-06, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 29 May 2020 and proposed to the National Assembly a draft decision on its adoption: Project! DECISION adopting a Report on the application of the law and the activities of the courts in 2019 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 84, p. 16 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 30, para. 2, p. 11 of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED Adopts a Report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the courts in 2019 [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u158	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sabeva. You've intrigued the House with the reading of the Report. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. I don't see any speeches. I'm closing the debate. Mr. Panov, come in. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, take your seats and be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u159	Dear President, honourable Members of the House, Mr. Minister of Justice, Dear Guests! They asked me to be brief, and I will try to be brief by focusing on the main trends. You know that a source of information for the Annual Report used is the Report on the activities of the Supreme Court of Cassation, as well as annual reports for the past year of the appeals courts. Reports of the Courts of Appeal shall be published on the website of the courts and their annual reports. Unfortunately, the preparation of many of these reports in 2020 coincided with measures to prevent and limit the spread of COVID-19 in the country, dictated by the National Assembly's decision on the state of emergency. However, colleagues have been able to present and draw up the reports that are at your attention. I'll focus on three things. The first is related to the workload and related theme with the judicial map, the second topic with the legislation and laws that we have to implement, and the third topic is related to the attacks on magistrates, which in 2019 have become very common. In terms of statistics. For a consecutive year, the actual workload data show that there is considerable unevenness in the load of the courts in the country between the different courts and between units of the same level. The data has already been read, I will not repeat it, but I will focus only on a few of them. Notice that in the case of an average workload of 9,16 cases per month by one judge in the appeals courts, that of the Sofia Court of Appeal is 12,57 and cases which are dealt with per month in the Court of Military Appeal are, notice, 1.32 cases. When we compare district courts, we cannot fail to see the workload of the Specialized Criminal Court and the Sofia City Court, on the one hand, and all other courts on the district level. The situation of unevenness in the load of judges is even greater at the level of district courts, and there the difference between the Sofia District Court and the other district courts is very fracking. Many are loaded, of course, and courts in Pernik, Haskovo, Plovdiv, Pazardzhik. Outside the district centers there are courts that have 43 cases and more; there are courts that have less than 20 cases, such as in Ivaylovgrad. Very weak are the courts in Krumovgrad, Kula, Chepelare, General Toshevo, Ardino, Topolovgrad. For another year in summary, the problems with uneven workload prove that the most painful but also the most correct approach is a change of the judicial card. A future event which, unfortunately, with regard to courts continues to be without clear time parameters due to its unpopularity among both magistrates and the public in different settlements. In this sense, we need the support of the three authorities to implement such a reform. I wanted very much in the report to focus on military justice, even in it I had prepared the July decision last year, when we made a general decision and agreement on the closure of military courts. A working group has also been formed with representatives, including the Supreme Court of Cassation, but unfortunately, with the help of the Parliament, no decision has been reached and I fear that reform will not take place there either. I say this because options have been prepared to optimize the activities of military courts. As I have already told you, one of these options is for the consolidation of a first instance court and an appeal court. The second option was with two first instance judicial bodies and one appeal court. The main arguments were that there was no objective data on the basis of which to justify a prognosis of possible legislative changes to the jurisdiction of military courts. However, as I have already told you, there are proposals by MPs for changes to procedural laws and to low-load military courts, possibly with a change of procedural laws, to give a greater number of cases. Supporting this proposal also met with the Ministry of Justice. I am sure that you will debate this subject with due attention, but I cannot help but point out that, rather, the expectations themselves are oriented towards options for limiting their competence. And I will serve with just a few decisions of the European Court of Human Rights: the decision "Ergin v. Turkey"; the decision "Mazny v. Romania"; as well as the judgment in the case of Mustafa v. Bulgaria. If it goes in this direction and nothing is done with regard to military justice, it would really be a sin to proceed with a reform of the judicial map with regard to district courts or district courts that are at times more busy than the country's military courts. With regard to legislation. For another year, we expect a response from the National Assembly for an authentic interpretation of the amendment from 2018, when we sent our letter. These are the amendments of the PPC and the Law on the Judicial Government................................................................................................... 416 para. 2 and para. 7 of the PPC and Art. 64, para. 1 and para. 2 of the Law on the Judiciary. These are the rules governing the publication of judgments on the websites of the courts. For almost two and a half years we have been expecting an authentic interpretation. In all 2019, when we have been asked for opinions, for a position by magistrates of the Supreme Court of Cassation, we have always given such positions, but, unfortunately, the request for such positions is quite formal and when the opinion of the Supreme Judges is not in favour of the legal changes applied, it is completely ignored regardless of professional competent and convincing arguments. A typical example of this are the so-called career bonuses - I can't help but look at them, because these career bonuses were voted after the election as chief prosecutor and in fact they lead to the demitivation of colleagues from the courts in the country. In general, this change shows a conjunctural attitude towards the problems of the judicial system and a tendential disregard for the position of the supreme judges to amend the constitutional Law on the judiciary. It is certainly possible that the members of the Supreme Judicial Council at the end of their term of office or upon early termination of office in the judicial authorities of one degree higher than the one held before the election is an extraordinary privilege incompatible with the principles of a democratic and rule of law. The exclusion of a certain category of judges, prosecutors and investigators from the order established in the Law on the Judiciary for competition in the career development of magistrates is a reasonable legal justification. This is a career bonus that violates the balance of justice among the Magistrate community and acts, as I have already told you, demotivating and questioning the personal independence of the privileged. This privilege applies to both magistrates elected from the magistrates' quota and from the political quota. I can't help but stress, this topic and debate have become during the Legal Committee meeting, about the legislative initiatives adopted during the year. They were not in line with the principles of consistency and predictability, for a balanced and complex approach to lawmaking, continued the tendency to be imported into the National Assembly urgently, without discussion... [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u160	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u161	...with the public and with the magistrates of bills as a result of tragic incidents and under pressure from public opinion or dictated by the desire to respond to specific judicial acts. Such an idea for changes was also the proposal to change the Code of Criminal Procedure and then to rule out the possibility of the defendant admitting death, enabling the defendant to acknowledge the facts and to reduce his sentence by one third. I can't help but note the idea of a change in art. 419 para. 1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure to be included in the acts subject to verification under the order of renewal and as defined in art. 440, para. 1 of the primary early release. I will also speak with a few words to the new Criminal Policy Concept 2020 - 2025. It was prepared by the Ministry of Justice, but with the active participation of judges from the Supreme Court of Cassation and prosecutors from the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office. I would point out that it says: The constant increase in the amount of penalties does not allow them to be an adequate reflection of the nature and extent of the public danger of criminal behaviour. Statistics clearly show that increasing the size of penalties does not lead to a reduction in crime. And I will finally say a few words that, apart from the conditions in which magistrates are law-abiding, their legal activities are important not only to their workload and domestic issues, but also to the aggressive media environment, which as a trend has deepened in 2019. Colleagues are subjected to unprecedented attacks aimed at discrediting their professional and personal dignity. The use of techniques is, of course, in complete contradiction with the principles of the Ethical Code of Media. The ultimate objective of these campaigns, very often corrected by statements and actions of representatives of other authorities, including the Minister of Justice, is to raise obedience to magistrates and thus methodically eliminate the independence of the court. This undermines public confidence in the court and leads to a sense of lack of justice. I will set an example that is emblematic. Unfortunately, the Sofia College of the Supreme Judicial Council rather than defending judicial independence, which is its constitutional function, is even included in these attacks. In 2019, this happened with an emblematic example of the case of another campaign against the court on the occasion of the order of the Sofia Court of Appeal with a composition of three impeccable professionals in the field of criminal law. Judge Kalpakchiev, Judge Ivanova and Judge Magdalencheva, who gave early parole to the Australian citizen Jock Polfreyman. The Sofia College after a political party signal even sent the signal to the Inspectorate, which only a month and a half ago came to a decision on no violation. Nevertheless, the reaction against the judges was accompanied by numerous daily protests, patriotic demonstrations, mass attacks by politicians and by media. The controversial signals that the Sofia College broadcasts have certainly dispelled many colleagues in their expectations of this body to defend their independence when they become the target of media attacks because they fulfil their professional duties legally and conscientiously. I'm done with this. I am prepared to answer your questions, including the Minister of Justice, if any. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-01.u162	Thank you, dear Mr. Panov. Colleagues, we're going to vote. I was protecting the debates before that. I vote on the draft decision: Project! DECISION adopting a Report on the application of the law and the activities of the courts in 2019 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 84, p. 16 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 30, para. 2, p. 11 of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED Adopts a Report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the courts in 2019 Vote 80 MPs: 76 against 3, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. This was the last item on today's agenda. Colleagues, tomorrow, July 2, 2020 at 9:00. ..on a regular basis for a meeting. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
