ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members. There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Colleagues, we're moving on to point one: A NEW DISCLOSURE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE SEPTEMBER 17th, 2020, RETURNED FOR NEW DISCLOSURE WITH STORY No 199 OF 28 SEPTEMBER 2020 TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF TURN. 101 OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. I ask the President of the Commission to introduce us to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u3	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u4	♪ I can't believe on Decree No 199 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, received on 29 September 2020, on the return for a new discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Election Code, adopted by the National Assembly on 17 September 2020, and the reasons to the Decree At its meeting held on 7 October 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed Decree No 199 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, received on 29 September 2020, for a return for a new discussion of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code adopted by the National Assembly on 17 September 2020, and the reasons to the Ukhaza. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Ivanka Ivanova, legal advisor from the Administration of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria. Mrs. Ivanova reported to the members of the Commission the President of the Republic of Bulgaria and the reasons for it. On the basis of art. 101, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I return for a new discussion in the National Assembly the provisions of § 1, 4, 6 (on art. 213a, para. 1), § 8, 9, 10, § 11, p. 3, § 13, 15, 19 and 21 of the Law amending and supplementing the Election Code, adopted on 17 September 2020 [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u5	Guys, there's a lot of noise in the room. Please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u6	In his motives, the President points out that the legislator confirms the combination of machine and paper votes as the main position of the electoral process, which he believes is an essential source of difficulty both during the vote and when counting the votes. Such a combination takes away the advantages of machine voting and increases the shortcomings of paper vote, manual counting and shaping of protocols. It is noted that mixing the two forms of voting thus does not solve the problem of the high number of invalid ballots. In addition, it is stressed that the decision to hire or purchase technical voting devices, as well as the criteria on which it is to be taken, are questions concerning the development of the Election Code and not just about its implementation. It is stated that, once the legislator has adopted the machine voting as a form of exercise of constitutional selective law, it should regulate fully and comprehensively the terms and conditions, arrangements and organisation under which the assessment of the recruitment or purchase of technical machinery voting devices will take place. The President also expressed his disagreement with regard to the data subject to entry in the sectional protocols to alleviate the members of the sectional committees. The envisaged formal integration of graphs into the sectional protocols would in fact not facilitate the work of the members of the sectional election committees, but would create a need for further technical operations relating to the summation of the total number of such ballots, which should be reflected in the minutes. It is noted that the deprivation of the discretion of the Central Election Commission on the choice of a contractor for the computer processing of voting data, as well as on the issuance of a ballot with election results, including from the machine voting, greatly strengthens the role of a single entity whose activity will depend on the legality of the electoral process. The competition start in the procedure is not just a formal obstacle, but a guarantee to achieve the maximum public interest in the electoral process. The systematic focus of certain activities within a company does not in any way contribute to the fulfilment of the constitutional commitments of the State to ensure uniform legal conditions for business and to prevent abuse of monopoly and unfair competition. The President also expressed his disagreement with the introduction of the confirmed votes of the machine vote in each sectary election commission under art. 206 of the Election Code to be compared to the number of control receipts printed by the system. He believes that the supplemented texts create obvious difficulties for the sectional committees when counting ballots and filling the protocols because they require manual processing of electronic data. It is noted that the change in the Law on direct participation of citizens in government and local self-government must correspond to the existing constitutional framework and the bodies included therein, to the defined way of forming them, to the powers entrusted to them, the relationships and the balance between them. The lifting of the legal ban by means of a national referendum to resolve issues of the competence of the Grand National Assembly unduly mixes two constitutionally established forms of participation of citizens in the state power. It is also pointed out that problems related to the constitutionality of the National Assembly's decision to produce a national referendum and the issues that will be resolved with it. The discussion was attended by the MPs: Philip Popov, Krum Zarkov, Christian Mitev, Smilyana Krasteva, Nadia Klisurska, Christian Vigenin, Hamid Hamid, Anna Alexandrova and Krasimir Tsipov. The MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria stated that the reasons for the President's Decree overlap with those of the parliamentary group, which had already been expressed in plenary at the time of the adoption of the Law and expressed their support for the second discussion of the Law. Mr. Hristian Mitev expressed his opinion that the veto of the President has a strong political element and stated his support for the readmission of the Election Code. Ms. Anna Alexandrova and Mr. Krasimir Tzipov stressed that they are against the president's veto, and the political party GERB parliamentary group will support the re-acception of the Election Code. They noted that they were convinced that the law would attract more voters to the electoral process by re-accepting them. It has been pointed out that the choice of voting methods is entirely in line with the principle laid down in art. 3 of the Election Code, namely that elections are produced on the basis of universal, equal and direct selective right by secret ballot and ensure free expression of the will of voters. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 11 votes.................. 9 votes against...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u7	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you go. Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The forty-fourth National Assembly often deals with the Election Code. In fact, our legislation on the electoral process in the last three years has been reminiscent of a soap opera, a repeating plot, an endless drama, an expected outcome. There is no solution on many of the issues that have been asked by us since 2017. Clearing the electoral lists didn't do anything. The funding of political parties was marked by bargaining and penal actions against the opposition and smaller parties. And while humanity is experiencing another industrial revolution this time digitally, Bulgaria has crashed the introduction into the electoral process of a rather simple machine. And the reason is only one.. the majority does not want machines in the process despite legal amendments, which said they would be voted only by machines, despite the promises of the Prime Minister:.......................................................................................if people want to do it............................................................ The essence of politics on this issue in the majority is to sabotage and compromise this method of voting. The question is why? In his motives for the veto, the President clearly states what the machines will contribute to limit the possibilities for manipulating the vote, election forgery and bringing down to zero the invalid ballots. On the eve of any choice that takes place in recent years, the engine vote was either completely canceled or limited, and now we are witnessing another trick you are trying to disinfect with the introduction of paper where you absolutely had to vote with machines and only with machines in the big sections. I cannot and will not believe that you do not understand repetitions from both us and experts, and now the President's argument that, of all possible decisions, this is a mixed vote in the same section of machinery and paper, is the worst possible. It remains in turn all vices of erroneously completed ballots, of incorrect protocols, of unaccounted for preferences and at the same time hinders any beneficial effect of machine voting. In this way, our country will commit itself to huge funds -- tens of millions -- will involve institutions that openly and honestly told you that they do not have the opportunity to fulfil the obligations you impose on them -- will occupy premises -- huge efforts will be made completely pointless. And that's just so that after the election you can say, "See, there's no need, let's get rid of these machines." It's transparent, it's unfair, it's irresponsible! This behavior is fully conscious and proof of this is that you are trying in every way to exclude the Council of Ministers from the process. These are other amendments that the president pays our attention to. You place responsibility on the CEC and other institutions, you do everything you can to put the government aside because you are looking for a non-executor of the Law, but a culprit for a well-known, planned and targeted failure. The so-called relief of protocols is nothing but a sweep of the tracks, and the entry of Information Service directly in the Law saves the inconvenience of holding public and transparent competitions. For the frankly unconstitutional text on amending the Constitution by referendums and on the total discreditation of the legislative process, also noted in the veto, there is nothing to say here anymore. Parliament enjoys a 7% confidence in perhaps historically the lowest level. That is, not only opposition and president, but 93% of Bulgarian citizens are well aware that the most important institution in the country is not working properly and usefully. However, ladies and gentlemen, the veto of the President, like any veto, is a chance to review the Law, prevent errors from finally being resolved. Take advantage of it. Stubborn is not a good advisor. The stakes are fair elections, and in the current situation this is also civil peace. Be at least once in this term at the height of your responsibilities. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u9	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Zarkov, I'm going to give you a line with the agreement that, in principle, what you're saying, you're right. But I would like this n-th number of debates that we are debating on the subject of the Election Code to be a little deeper, a little more responsible and all of us to be responsible enough to guarantee the constitutional rights, including the electoral rights of the Bulgarian citizens. We're having another debate today. A few weeks ago, we had this fierce debate that, alas, didn't do any good. At least in this state in which we see the Election Code, it is filled with doubt; it is filled with provisions that contradict the Constitution; provisions that take away the rights of Bulgarian citizens, and provisions that literally deprive them of voting. That's one thing. On the other hand, however, we do not say exactly which way to ensure the integrity of the vote! We're talking about machines, well, yes, it has to be machine voting, there's this provision in the Law, we've had debates on this subject, but here the question is let's finish it so that these protocols don't get messed up. Is there an option? There is. Can we do that? Yeah. Once upon a time, we had made the distribution in the electoral sections so that all represented parliamentary parties had their presence in these sections. It's okay, it has to be preserved, it has to develop, but is it enough to guarantee the integrity of the vote? No, it's not. What's the next exercise and we're actually going to find this approach together in this room...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u11	The weather, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u12	...to guarantee the vote of the citizens, on the one hand? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov. [[The Presidents shall change the sitting.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Zarkov, with all due respect, I have listened to your statement. It is mainly in support of the arguments of the presidential veto written by the President's Administration. But here I would like to ask you personally your motives for supporting these motives. Perhaps you could answer the following questions: in which country in Europe and in the world are voted by machines? Ms. Ninova and the President of the Republic of Bulgaria are elected by machines, or by paper vote and if elected by paper vote, do you respect this choice of Bulgarian citizens and accept the honesty of these elections? And thirdly, members of sectional election committees have your political power. Are you accusing them, accusing them, and having doubts about their honesty and credibility in holding the elections in all the elections that have been held so far, when there are always members of sectional election committees broadcast by all parliamentary parties, and so far has the Bulgarian Socialist Party always been? I would appreciate it if you could answer these brief questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Third line? I can't see. Mr. Zarkov, you have the floor for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, Honourable Replicators! I thank Mr. Letifov for giving me the opportunity to explain our proposals from BSP, which we have been doing for several years. Actually, the machines, Mr. Letifov, are not a new question at all. Experiments were conducted in Bulgaria for years, we invested in this thing, we did experiments and in real time, there were machine voting with 3000 machines! It's clear what the machine is, it's clear what the parameters are, it's clear what the controls are, it's clear what needs to be done! To a working group where I tried to explain these things to Mr. Ivanov, we wrote these machines so many times with colleagues from BSP, only we didn't draw them! In fact, what, when I say, only we didn't draw them? Representatives of Bulgarians from abroad came, one of them released a film from Belgium, Mr. Ivanov. Is Belgium in Europe? [[Reply from GERB: "Only in Belgium! "]] From Belgium, where there were such machines. Half the world's population... [[GERB lines.]] No, this is indicative of the way the in-depth debate is being conducted. Voting machines are used by half the population on Earth. And as for Europe, when there you show me practices like here and when there you show me levels of wrong protocols and invalid ballots like here, then give them to me as an example! Moreover, in Europe, when you mention it, reports have recently come out regarding your corrupt governance, if you have noticed. There is also the moment for the legislation under the Election Code! If you read them carefully, you'll see. As for our SIC members, I don't know how far you're following the process, but we've been proposing, including new ways and a new model for choosing people in the SIC. You know very well that in Bulgaria you buy whole sections! Am I teaching you anything? [[Replicate from the National Representative Alexander Ivanov.]] Do I teach you anything about buying whole sections and that in small towns there are absolutely zulus happening? Don't you know that? [[GERB lines.]] As for the way Mrs. Nino and Mr. Radev are elected, I assure you that the more honest the elections are, the more emphatically they will be elected! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u17	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! A few words from me. Indeed, in the president's veto, a number of issues have been motivated, which call into question the adequacy of the Election Code as adopted by the Bulgarian Parliament. Yesterday in the Legal Commission they were discussed, but, of course, the most serious is related to machine voting and the way in which it is regulated in the Law adopted by the majority of this regulation makes it virtually meaningless. I will start by saying that the key objective of the electoral rules, the electoral legislation is to ensure that every Bulgarian citizen can vote that the vote of every Bulgarian citizen will be taken into account and that the outcome of the elections corresponds to the vote itself. This is in the recommendations of all the organizations of the Council of Europe, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, which are involved in monitoring elections and electoral legislation. The question is, do you, with what you have accepted, guarantee that this will happen? When in Bulgarian elections tens and hundreds of thousands of ballots turn out to be in a series of elections invalid, this means that tens and hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens' votes have not been accounted for or adequately reported. Doesn't that bother you, or is that really the purpose of electoral legislation?! Because if it is adequately accounted for, perhaps your party will not achieve these results. One of the main arguments with which you defend the introduction of a paper vote with the latest amendments to the Law is the mantra that every Bulgarian citizen should be able to vote and that Bulgarian citizens are worried and will not vote if the vote is only machine. For this argument it has been said by me so far that you can actually give them the opportunity to vote, to mark their vote on paper, but then hundreds of thousands of these citizens' votes will simply not be taken into account. The problem with the elections in Bulgaria, part of the problem is related to the capacity of the sectional election committees. One of the objectives of the engine vote to limit this problem is to minimise the human factor's role in conducting, counting and finalising election results in the sectional election committees! Now not only do you not make it easier on the contrary, you are guaranteed to create additional problems in each sectary election commission, because from the practice, as well as Mr. Zarkov pointed out from the attempts made in the last elections, since the process of the phase-in of the machine voting was started, it has proved that the main errors are related to the counting and respectively to the summation of the results of the machine and the paper voting! In fact, I do not understand what the logic is when the combination of one with the other vote has been proven to make additional and much more mistakes, in the Election Law you are betting such errors to be multiplied absolutely in each election committee with more than 300 voters, as below 300 people are voted in paper. I would give another argument, which I accept from what has also been heard in the discussion of the adoption of the Bill of Your Changes, it was expressed by the President of Parliament Tsveta Karayancheva that it is possible that in the case of a full machine voting it will happen so, although it is unlikely that in the case of damaged machines there will be no possibility that the vote in some sections will not be carried out, there will not be enough spare machinery and so on. This question, of course, is very easy to solve as long as you are willing to do so. Since ballots and paper voting are being prepared for sections below 300 people anyway, it would be perfectly normal and adequate to prepare as a backup option, in a final case, in certain sections, if it were not possible to continue voting with machines, only then would it be possible to move to a paper ballot vote. There's no problem with that happening, I repeat, exceptionally. I do not know if this whole discussion is a little uncomfortable for you, because after all, you are the ones who have repeatedly confirmed the engine vote and then canceled it before another election, and after the elections you have re-enacted it. In this unpredictability of the electoral legislation that you are adopting, there is actually an absolute predictability, and we know what will happen as long as there is a majority of GERB in this Parliament, to infinity we will play cat and mouse, we will cancel and accept machine voting. I really wonder why these arguments that you are currently arguing are valid now, but they weren't valid a year ago when you accepted that there would be a full machine vote in all elections after the locals from there? Who, how and why did you then lie to us, the MPs, the Bulgarian citizens? I have no doubt that then this adoption of the decision was entirely and only to calm the tension that was created with the idea of returning to this law and changing it in the way it was now done. Again, I would be really embarrassed and ashamed of both my colleagues and Bulgarian citizens because of the way you are playing with electoral legislation. In fact, however, this is only one of the problems that there is in the management of GERB and the way laws are adopted in this Parliament. I guess we'll just have to swallow it for another month or two or a little longer. After all, despite the fact that the Legal Commission yesterday expected to reject the President's veto, confirmed the Law as it is, I turn to you to take advantage of the chance that the President gives you to accept the veto or, in other words, not to confirm the Law as it is and to give a chance indeed in dialogue to reach a solution that guarantees fair elections if you want them, of course. I'm done with the fact that to date, I'm seeing two possible developments in the way you're persevering right now. One possible development that will probably happen is that in a few months we will reopen the Election Code, we will completely remove the machines and we will leave them perhaps not in three thousand, but in four or five thousand sections, because you will explain to us how it is not possible to organise the vote: there are no machines, cannot be delivered and so on, because you have no clarity in the electoral process. The second development I see is that if the electoral legislation remains this way, you are placing a bomb that will explode on election day. And it seems to me that your goal is precisely that of having some vague choices, with many misguided protocols, choices that you will lose, but you will have reason to appeal. [[Noise, lines, laughter.]] Therefore, I call on you, if you want to be honest, if you want to be honest with the Bulgarian voters, make the Law such that it is indisputable! Let us make sure that, in these years, this Parliament has not wasted its time, but that we have walked on the path to democracy, fair elections and transparency in the electoral process as responsible politicians, not as people who are trying to make the rules so comfortable for their party. It is time for this to end because people simply can't wait to watch, listen and see what is happening in the Bulgarian Parliament. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u19	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. - What's the line? Mr. Tanev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Vigenin, I have a question for you: when was the last time you went out on the yellow pavement and went to the people on site? When did you ask them what really happened, what was their desire? Because here you stand, talking, listening. [[Applause from GERB.]] Colleagues, people on the ground have the right and they want to be able to vote. The fact that you are standing here right now explaining for nearly 10 minutes, you see how the elections will be neglected, people will be deceived, this is just another time when you talk about it. Stand clear, talk to your people, go to the people of the sectional committees, your people, from the previous elections, and tell them: "You have been bought because of you we lost. " - Because you in this tribune are talking about this right now. And one last thing. The colleague Ivanov asked several questions, which you are not skillfully answering. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u21	Thank you, Mr. Tanev. Second line? It's a hole, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Tanev, dear colleagues! Thank you for the question, because you give me the opportunity to answer that I personally, and our parliamentary group are regularly on the yellow pavement as you express. [[Noise and lines.]] We are at and among the people. The fact that in recent days the number of people is smaller in the square should not mislead you, because the tens of thousands who surrounded this compromised parliament are not in the square, but have not changed their attitude towards this corrupt governance, which has been referred to as such in various reports, both American and European, will also see the vote on the resolution of the European Parliament. I want to tell you that we know much better than you do what people think about these matters...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u23	That's very suspicious.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u24	...as we are among them, unlike you who have broken away, and when they are in front, do not dare to show up from the entrances of parliament and take you by buses. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Since the main question was about the engine vote, I would like to ask Mr. Tanev in reply: where were you last year when this law was adopted and the engine vote that you approved? Then why wasn't everything you were talking about a problem today, and now that the elections are near, it becomes a problem? When did you change your mind about your personal and parliamentary group? Was it then that you didn't appreciate the consequences, or did you suddenly see an opportunity and a threat in the machine vote? You saw a threat that every single vote will be reported that you will not be able to play with protocols, with false ballots, with invalid ballots [[noise and lines]] with bags to carry ballots in. Be honest with yourself!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u25	Mr. Vigenin, thank you, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u26	Again, you should be ashamed to ask these questions! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u27	We continue with the speeches. Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the electoral process, there are four basic principles that characterize active suffrage, classical principles: universal suffrage, equal suffrage, direct suffrage and secret voting. With the amendments to the Election Code that you introduced, some of these classic principles are severely damaged. The large number of invalid ballots, the large number of incorrect protocols, which have no analogue in any European country, practically replace the vote of the Bulgarian citizens. The machines reduce to zero the invalid ballots, and the effect of this is higher turnout and legitimization of the authorities elected by the citizens in elections. With these changes you agree in practice and stimulate the replacement of the vote of all Bulgarian citizens. The course you set with the amendments to the Law on the Direct Participation of Citizens is clearly contradictory to the constitutional model, which guarantees both direct and representative democracy. Inadmissible is the unpredictableness of the electoral process. After many experiments spent millions of levs on Bulgarian citizens, since just one year ago you have welcomed the introduction of the machine voting, you can now wonder how to remove it. Why? Because you are afraid of the will of the sovereign, and it is clear, it has been for more than three months and it is a resignation and fair elections. [[Relations of the National Representative Vejdi Rashidov.]] But you don't hear that thing. You neither resign nor want fair elections and have absolutely no valid arguments against our arguments and those of the President reflected in the veto imposed. Your hidden argument is actually one, but it can no longer be masked, it is for you power at all costs. Listen to the Bulgarian citizens, listen to the people! Do not say that we do not go among Bulgarian citizens. Yes, you are! Bulgarian citizens are here, outside, on the yellow pavement, dear colleague, but you are not there! And we saw you talking to Bulgarian citizens in Lom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u29	Line. Mr. Rashidov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman! Just one line. The Bulgarian citizens are not the only ones privatizing them. They are not the ones on the yellow pavements! You've been going between them for three months? The Bulgarian citizens are the ones on the construction sites. You're forgetting them! The people in the hospitals, the doctors, the builders, the engineers, the villagers who collect the wheat. Aren't these Bulgarian citizens or just the ones on the pavement? [[Applause from GERB.]] And secondly, this machine vote.. just to let you know, I was recently to India... only in India and Venezuela is voted machine. What's the big deal about this machine? When you had Ds Ondt, you weren't in the election. It's hard to tell the number, let alone the machine. Only in India vote 800 million out of a billion and a half, and check it out, and Venezuela 100 million. What's your problem? The people on the pavement! What about that people at work? Don't you care about this people? Why don't you go between them? Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u31	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. Mrs. Alexandrova, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u32	Dear Mr. Popov, my line to you is: when you speak from the stands, please speak with arguments and exact numbers. I will quote the report from the last mixed such vote with machines and paper ballots, and this is the Central Election Commission report following the elections held for Members of the European Parliament, which says that invalid ballots make up 3.83%. You in this tribune said they were extremely many. And another thing when you talk about the mixed vote in the report is quoted: On election day 158,967 voters voted with machines, which represents 7,59% of all voted. It should be pointed out that only 27.7% of voters chose to vote by machine, while the remaining 72.3% of voters chose to vote by paper ballot. How would you explain that to the voters? We are precisely the party that introduces a full machine vote... in each section to have a machine vote. How will they vote if you take that right away?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Third line? You have the floor, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u34	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Popov! Colleagues, in Bulgaria in the last elections we have 466 000 invalid ballots! That means it's either manipulation or people can't handle it. And for a reason Mr. Rashidov compared us to Venezuela and India because there are a large number of illiterate people there. It seems that after 10 years we have arrived, thanks to you, at this level, to have 466 000 invalid ballots! How should we solve this problem? The problem is not that the Bulgarians are illiterate, and the problem is that we doubt that you are completely manipulating the elections. My question to you, Mr. Popov, is when there is a machine, is it possible, colleagues, that there is a invalid ballot? That's the difference between you and me. We want to actually count people's votes, and not someone then make them newsletters invalid. If you really want these 466 thousand invalid ballots to be zero, then you must accept the machines as you agreed a year ago. But seeing where public opinion is going, you want to save yourself, save yourself sooner, and that's why you're offering a system that will create an additional chaos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u35	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Mr. Popov's hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u36	I want the floor for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u37	I'll give you the word after the dot.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u38	Thank you. Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! We do not just want to introduce machine voting in Bulgaria. Here and colleagues said: more than half of the world is voted with machines....the United States, Belgium, Russia, there are machine readings. [[Laughter]] You can laugh, but check it out. You can laugh, but check it out, because you have no arguments, but nowhere in the world is there such a large number of invalid ballots. The colleague Stoynev said: in the last elections 460 thousand, in the last parliamentary elections These are close to two parliamentary groups in this Parliament - 160 thousand invalid ballots. Where else in the world are there so many null and void ballots, so many wrong protocols? The answer is nowhere. Nowhere! The right of the Bulgarian citizens because of it you mentioned, yes, everyone has an active and passive selective right. But we are obliged as a legislator to ensure such a process that the vote of every Bulgarian citizen is actually taken into account, not to be null and void... 160 thousand, 460 thousand invalid ballots. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u39	What's 400,000 or 100?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u40	Every nine out of ten protocols wronged is under your Election Code, under your administration. Is that why you're now trying to transfer all responsibility to the Central Election Commission? Is that why the former president of the Central Election Commission has resigned now? Because this election process, which is about to come, whatever kind of election, it starts with a false start, because that's how you staked it in the law itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u41	Thank you, Mr. Popov. You wanted a personal explanation, Mr. Rashidov? [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u42	Is he right? [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u43	He's right, Mr. Popov. It wasn't mentioned by you. Sit down, I'll explain, not by you. According to the rules, after a line and a back, he's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman! No one sees the people as stupid on the contrary, I told you which countries voted machinely, and that is exactly what I wanted to tell you: back to the people do not underestimate them. Do not underestimate the Bulgarian people. He'll be fine without a machine. What's the big deal with a machine?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u45	No one underestimates him on the contrary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u46	That's exactly what I'm saying: you underestimate him by making him, like the Indians machine to vote, and Venezuela.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u47	No, you're taking their vote to manipulate the vote. That's what we mean.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u48	You're manipulating the vote! Like he can't. Let me explain to you how this could work. A builder catches builders, sits on the machine, pushes...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u49	Please don't explain yourself, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u50	...and gives him 20 leva. What's your problem? It's so simple, you cycle it all day.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u51	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. Mr. Tsonev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, the parliamentary group of the European Parliament will support the veto, will vote against the bill, as we did at the adoption of the bill. The motives are the same. I see here in the debate that there is some attempt to shift the essence of the problem not to a false side, but to another country. Invalid ballots are not a function of how to vote. They are a function of having all of you embraced the idea that preferences are a very good thing. Well, they're not! For the last time, I'm telling you, it's not me! All invalid ballots are due to the preferential vote. Don't mess this up! We also want a machine vote in the current Election Code. This has been achieved by voting in Parliament on our proposal because confidence in the electoral process has been compromised, and there is no more secure way to compromise a democracy than to undermine confidence in the electoral process. And it was compromised not because of the invalid ballots only, but mostly because of the actions of the sectional election committees. The actions of the sectional election committees for the hundredth time we repeat it to you from this tribune are such that there is no way to trust in the election process. It is impossible for two thirds of the wrong protocols, crossed out, corrected, signed, rewritten to have confidence in the electoral process. That is why we wanted a 100% machine vote, although we are aware that this would create difficulties for one part of the voters so that there would be no interference in the counting of the sectional election committees. By doing this amendment that you have made, honourable Members of the ruling majority, you are actually eliminating this option. It'll be counted by hand again, it'll be counted again by the same section polls, and we'll have the same defects again. And I ask you, why are you doing this? You know very well that trust in the electoral process has been compromised. Why don't we return that trust? Why are you transferring the powers of the executive with regard to the organisation of the electoral process of the CEC? The CEC does not have such opportunities as administrative, legal or personnel. Same mistakes and then you ask why people are protesting. Then you ask why this is happening and what is going on. And let me tell you: don't be surprised if after some normal elections held in Bulgaria, after 30 years of democracy does not recognize these elections. Don't be surprised. [[Private applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u53	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. - What's the line? The line, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u54	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsonev, we have argued many times with you about preferences and according to your thesis, preferences are the only thing that is relevant to the invalid ballots. My question to you in the form of a replica is: have you come across that movie that has been spinning around the Internet and the media after some local elections, in which a regional governor who has been tasked with organising the elections in a particular area has instructed how to make invalid ballots and thanked his supporters for having done excellent work with the tasks previously put forward.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u55	Plovdiv.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u56	This film was broadcast, among other things, as I recall at the Municipal Council of the city of Plovdiv and was sent to the prosecution. There are confusions in the invalid ballots, but there are many that are the result of malicious action and instructions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u57	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Is there another line? It's a hole, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Zarkov, thank you for the line, although I think it confirms my thesis. I did not quite consciously address those cases in which there is quite clearly a conscious action to replace the vote of the Bulgarian voters. We have found many times such a replacement with different techniques and technologies, but they in most cases occur there, in the sectary election committee during the vote and especially after its completion. Then they are also done, and successfully, trying to get a large part of the ballots to become null and void. One part of the ballots is declared invalid, although it is very clear in the Law that if the ballot clearly shows the voter's desire for his choice, the ballot must be recognised. This rule, which is proclaimed in the Law, is not respected at all. It came out of the box quite clearly that the voter wanted to point out this party is invalid. But this is still the action of the sectional election committees. And I turn again to the majority: there is another chance to correct the mistake that you made by correcting the current Election Code. And that chance is now in the veto. We must choose one of two ways to avoid counting the sectional election committees. The first is to leave the old position with 100% machine voting, and the second is to introduce the engine counting, which is absolutely not difficult, easier to make machines and everything we talk about here, and is much cheaper. Let's think about it before you impose your will, because that will will will not only turn against you against all of us. Compromising trust in the electoral process is a par excelance compromise of Bulgarian democracy. It's good to know, because we're all gonna figure it out anyway, but it hurts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u59	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Statements? Mr. Nenkov. [[Reply from MP Hamid Hamid.]] No, there must be a rotation and you know it perfectly well, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Unfortunately, electoral legislation has always been a convenient chewing gum and a good way of political opposition. Perhaps this is one of the main reasons why we do not have the legislation that we are all waiting for, and this electoral process that we are all talking about, because it is always the result of a political opposition that shifts the focus of a sufficiently good parliamentary debate, and not just parliamentary debate, and society. Nevertheless, I dare say that we have one not bad election legislation. I believe that the elections in Bulgaria, as a person who has been engaged in elections for many years, are at a sufficiently good democratic level. Undoubtedly there are violations. Other cases have been reported a while ago, but these are criminal acts. They are not the product of poor electoral legislation. They are the fruits of other malicious benefactors in quotes, whose, of course, task of the institutions and of those competent authorities is to find those who have such a desire. I am the chairman of the largest electoral area in the country, and for so many years now I have dared to claim both the colleagues on the left and other political forces have had the opportunity to face forces, so far we have always had a very good democratic process. And, perhaps, not on this stage, but outside the hall, our conversation has always been well-intentioned and constructive. Why am I saying this? Because I think the subject is overexposed. And the biggest problem is that we cause a distrust in people, and when there is one distrust in people, inevitably leads to its political reflections and to doubt almost the democracy of a government and of any subsequent one. I think it's harmful and shouldn't happen. I think we should still look for compromise solutions so as to show the public that we are mature enough as politicians that the electoral process in the country is good enough. Of course, he has his shortcomings and must seek to find their solutions, but in no way, when an election passes, it is, in my opinion, the biggest mistake that we use the electoral rules to justify victory or a possible loss. It sounds ridiculous to me that 446,000 invalid ballots... We get the impression that they're almost BSP. Colleagues, they're not for BSP. They are most likely for all the political parties that participated in these elections. A large percentage of invalid ballots comes from mistakings being made. I've seen this with my own eyes many times. It is not for a reason that we always try to train our people so that they do not make such mistakes, but it is the fact that it happens. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Right? There's no way we can bend our souls. Somehow not to imagine that these invalid ballots were for BSP and they, you see, almost now should have had 121 MPs, and they have less?! I'm sorry, but this is not serious. Personally, I'm not a fan of machines. I've never been, and I've said it many times, but I'll respect that because I voted to have that veto. I voted for these machines the way we've accepted it last year, just because it's nice to see what the effect might be. Mr. Tsonev just said, "Why are you doing this? Why not just machines? I will answer him in this way: because we are responsible because we are the ruling party. I am very far from convinced that if you were a ruling party, you would easily have a 30-year trial with your pros and disadvantages just to turn it 180 degrees in one day. I'm sure you wouldn't have let that happen. If the machines have a good effect, although I personally doubt that, let it be just this way in the future. Whether they will be counting or electronic machines, let the future ultimately show. Now we will have the chance to 100% in all sections with over 300 voters to vote machine. Let's actually see how much is the percentage of people who will choose to vote this way. Because of what was just said in the Central Election Commission Report, I do not get the impression that many people were willing to vote at this opportunity. I still think, given the experience of other countries that have tried to introduce such types of machines, that the secret of the vote could not be more protective than voting with paper. I'm sure with your hand on your heart, that's what you think. It just doesn't feel right in this political situation to be in this position. I understand. I think the president's veto is almost an attempt at opposition. I do not think that any of the vetoes that have been imposed in recent months on the laws that this Parliament has adopted are aimed at some constructiveism. On the contrary, you say here almost: we're missing our chance. I'm sorry, but the president, months ago, took the trust out of this government. He's not looking for any dialogue with anyone. He's standing on one side of society, he doesn't exist for the other part of society. So such a postulate and cliché that we have lost the moment here and now was the time to seek some compromise or debate, I think it is absolutely unnecessary. We don't have to flood society with clichés like this. Therefore, our parliamentary group will re-vote the Law on Election Rules and reject the president's veto. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u61	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. The line, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Nenkov, dear colleagues! I understand the fairy tales that are spoken of are being poured from empty to empty. Indeed, you said: we will experiment again on whether we will proceed to the engine vote. I'll tell you one case where the engine vote has been denied at a section machine, none of them have voted. There GERB wins by 83%. This is in the last elections for the European Parliament, where several positions have preferences with exactly 40 people. That's why it's the veto, that's why it's the method of reporting, because it's a way of voting, of controlling the controlled vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u63	Third line, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u64	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Nenkov, two disagreements and one agreement with your speech. The disagreement is that when we talk about over 400,000 invalid ballots, none of us have said that they were in favor or harm to anyone. There are 460 thousand unaccounted for voices that make people think: "What am I going to vote for, provided that there is a risk that my voice will not be heard? " [[Relations from the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov.]] My second disagreement, Mr. Nenkov, is that when you introduce the mixed vote, you do not extend people's voting opportunities, but disprove them by introducing an opportunity to fake the elections and introduce chaos. People think, " What do I have to vote for when it's a business way to win an election?" I agree that this veto is really a opposition from the President with the desire to introduce an honest way of elections against your desire for a professional victory and unfair elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u65	Ms. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u66	Dear Mr. Nenkov, perhaps we should repeat once again from the stand that the introduction of the paper ballot is at the request of the voters. Because I can say that in the office of GERB in Kardzhali there come many voters of BSP and say: Mrs. Karayancheva, reason them these, ours, because we do not want machines! [[Noise and laughter from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Because what they offer us worries us! Including the other day when I got home, the same ladies came to congratulate me on what was going to happen. Don't let there be a machine, because that's what's bothering us. Regarding what I am talking about, about manipulations and everything else, this is another mantra, which is repeated from the stands of the National Assembly and, in general, in the media, in the studios. They're looking for a reason to lose the election and make excuses. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Karayancheva. Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Nedyalkov, I am very interested to know if your representatives in this sectional committee have signed this protocol?! [[Heckling]] We do not forget that in each section there are representatives of each political party?! We're not forgetting this thing, are we?! [[Noise and lines.]] I suppose if I do some digging, I'll find sections where, for example, they voted 90% for your party? [[Heckling]] Probably gonna find one, too? I just said: correct. I didn't want to pick a fight, I said: quite correct. If there are manipulations, they're intentional. One part is a mistake, and the other part is when there's a controlled vote. This is quite different from electoral legislation, but quite different, and it is not Parliament's job to resolve such cases. Isn't that right? As for the other thing Mr. Tasco Ermenkov said, it's a good thing there's Internet, because for the 460 grand, I apologize, I made a mistake. I will now read to you how many real ballots were in the last elections: in 2013. ==References=====External links===* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings, "Further readingsandings"* "Further reading"* "Further readings"* "Further readings, "Furthering"* "Furthering"* "Fury"* "Further For these four hundred sixty-six thousand points, not to quote the number that has just been mentioned, it seems to be a total sum for the last four types of elections.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u69	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u70	Sorry, this is from the CEC report. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This is from the CEC Report, colleagues, so please don't fool the public. It's a very comfortable subject for you. It is a pity that you haven't found any other excuse in yourself for so many years, and you find justification only in the election rules for losing. Well, I'm sorry if the presidential elections were fair in 2016 and everyone else was unfair because you didn't win them. There's no one to lie to with that thing. As far as machines are concerned, excuse me, you are the only party that may have recognized the Venezuelan elections and others in the Western world where we are supposedly seeking did not. I'm sorry. [[(Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.) Applause by GERB.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u71	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Mr. Zablyanov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u72	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Allow me at the beginning to make a suggestion: from the budget of the National Assembly to buy binoculars for the President of the National Assembly, as obviously the last line is not visible. Maybe an artillery trinog, depending on the public procurement. [[Laughs, laughs, excitement.]] Dear MPs, I express the opinion of the six socialists who are not members of the BSP parliamentary group on the presidential veto. We support the President's veto on the texts that were voted by the majority in the National Assembly. At the same time, I would like to stress that I regret that the debate has been held so far on the balance between machine voting and paper voting. A number of points that are present in the President's veto are not addressed to several paragraphs which are also returned with the veto in question and which pose no less danger to the electoral process. Not to mention that § 21 refers to anti-constitutional texts which have already been expressed by other MPs. It is about the possibility, through the Law on the Direct Participation of Citizens, to carry out consultations that are contrary to the 1991 Constitution. I appeal to the MPs: now is the time to vote on the veto, this mistake that has been made by the majority to be corrected, not to bring complaints to the Constitutional Court and not to have the Constitutional Court cancel these legislative proposals again. There is no doubt that the legislative proposal made contains in it anti-constitutional provisions, as it is only by the competence of the Grand National Assembly that is to rule on a certain range of issues which, anyway, you know, are affected in the proposal that has been made. As for the President's proposal on the mixed form of voting, as you have suggested, both machine and paper. There is no doubt that the two forms of voting will lead to difficulty in the electoral process at least because of the summation of the result of paper ballots and machine processing. There is no reason to leave the mixed form of voting despite the explicit order of the Election Code on the matter until now. What the majority could do right now in this change is to choose one of the two forms. This was much more honorable, it would have been much clearer for voters and, since the legislator had ordered in the text so far to have only machine voting, you had the majority to cancel this machine voting. What you have done has been an unsuccessful combination, I repeat, of both forms, which has led to today's debate, to the president's veto, and which will certainly lead to difficulties in the electoral process. I am not going to argue whether they are intentional or unintentional, but they will again give rise to reproach from international institutions and organizations regarding the organisation of our elections. Finally, on the subject of preferences, as they were affected. Yesterday, my colleagues and I tabled proposals on amendments to the Election Code. We suggest that there should be no minimum preferential threshold, we also propose changes in the reporting of preferences. Unnecessary ballots, as you all well know, are obtained by taking into account the preferences, because in the sectional election committees, taking into account the preferences from each party, labeled by the representatives of each party and giving preferences to whom they have decided somewhere. This way of writing preferences does not help the electoral process, does not help democracy in Bulgaria, corrupts the meaning of the preferential vote. We propose that the preferences should be taken into account and counted by the entire sectary committee, not given to each party representative to assess and record inside what he sees fit. Regarding the computer processing of the data, an extremely important issue which the President has seen in the changes and has returned with the veto. There is no reason to define a company, although it was state-owned, which deals with the computer processing of election data. This gives the ruling party an advantage, the party that controls the Council of Ministers and the executive power, and which has the opportunity to influence the state entities, including the information services market. The admission of other companies, companies and organizations to deal with and to do the calculations regarding the votes cast in the elections should be an additional guarantee that the elections in Bulgaria were conducted in an honest manner. Giving an advantage only to a state-owned company to calculate the election results further puts a shadow of doubt on the election process. We insist and appeal to our majority colleagues not to see the veto as a discussion again about the engine or machine voting, to look at the veto in its entirety, to discover the vicious elements that you have submitted to the Election Code, outside of this mixed system, and to correct them. I stress the last remark in the president's veto on the time when the amendment to the Election Code was made. The notes from the Venice Commission to Bulgaria on the time until the elections are repeated, making changes to the electoral legislation. A common European, democratic standard is the maxim that changes in electoral legislation a few months before the elections do not constitute good practice, violates the democratic process in general and they usually seek a professional victory for one of the participants in the elections, most often for the parties who currently have a majority in parliament or have the executive power. That is why I turn to support, so to speak, with the future actions of this address of the President, that we do not deal with amendments to the Election Code always a few months before the elections, and always in attempts to achieve the official advantage of the party that has a majority. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u73	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov, for your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u74	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am somewhat astonished by the statements of our opposition, which has fixed itself mainly on the leading party in the country. Believe me, manipulations, I'd say, are basically forgeries, making other parties. I will give you an example of the last elections when a lady in Plovdiv manipulates the four agencies in charge of Plovdiv, with the so-called exit gender. All day, all the radios have been blowing up that this lady is going on a run. The evening, however, when official protocols began to come out, when the time of truth came, it was evident that this lady was very, very far from the ballet.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u75	Who is this lady?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u76	I'll mention it. More than ten thousand votes were not enough for her to enter the ballet. This lady is called Mrs. Danny Kanazireva. Very strange why, it is strange for me here already, very strange why Mrs. Kanazireva was appointed as Regional Governor of Plovdiv three days later. [[(Voices from the BSP for Bulgaria.) (Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.) (Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.) (Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.) Noise.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u77	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u78	As for the judiciary, which many of us perceive as a sacred cow, there is a Roman expression for Mrs. Kanazireva: Sic transit Gloria mundi. Her world fame was just...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u79	Mr. Atanasov, let's focus on the topic.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u80	...three, four hours when you see the truth. As for the justice system, one of the greatest lawyers of all time Quintilian says the following: The highest judiciary sometimes gives birth to high injustice. And here sometimes the judiciary makes unfair decisions, and depending on the situation, it makes its decisions. Colleagues, let us not concentrate solely on the leading party. The last thing I want to say. I do not engage my parliamentary group, but I am a firm supporter of machines, because there will be no more invalid voices and there will be no forged protocols. In this regard, however, there is one huge flaw that I agree with the President of the National Assembly. It has been proven that a machine covers not more than 200 voters in the electoral process, and there are sections with 750 people, 750 people, I repeat, in Sofia there may be a thousand, I have seen with 750 voters. That's the big flaw in the machine. Some say: "We will bring two machines into the room. Still won't be enough for some sections. That's my speech. I ask you to be correct because many parties are trying to act with dishonest means during elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u81	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Atalay, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u82	Thank you. Dear colleagues, interesting debate. Your attempts, colleagues from GERB, to convince us that your natural state is to create problems, continue, and hard. Why don't you accept an Election Code, the law by which all political forces should restore the trust that the National Assembly has lost, the trust lost to all politicians? You see the opposition almost as enemies who want to spoil your peace. Your efforts to try to take away the constitutional right of voters so that they can freely, calmly give their voice to the political power to which they belong, and as if you are struggling 24/7, and your thoughts are how and in what way and this time to gain the voter's trust and in a very short period of time to lose it if you wanted all of this to happen, you had the Code to enter the Chamber immediately after the elections. I'm talking about trust because during the election process, you can see where there are gaps in the Election Code. At the moment, to restore trust, we need to say a few words about those people who doubt that other than GERB no one else goes to the voters. Besides the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, so often and tightly together with its voters, the attempts that other political formations have been making in recent times, I doubt that the colleague who just said that he was sitting with the voters once went to them... If he had walked, he had to take the floor today and say from here: "To restore the trust of the people, first, we had to start with the agitating process. " Do we give the opportunity to agitate each candidate to be able to reach the last voter through the language, through the hearing, through the machines, through all sorts of intelligent things that are created in the world? No! Any of you today to step out of this tribune and say should the government continue the pressure on the municipal administration, on the public administration? Should teachers be at the top of the electoral process? Should the foresters line up all the way and leave them in the cold in the winter, or should politicians really go and explain to these people how and how we will arrange their future? These topics are none of their business. We are only talking about the constitutional right of the voter, and with you it is only the ballot. If there is no ballot, all other constitutional rights can be taken away from the people. My appeal was, and I want to address the president. He could say a few words at least about the constitutional rights taken away by a number of citizens both in America and in other countries that are not members of the European Union, to give them the opportunity and the right to vote. I'm talking about restoring trust. Colleagues, today in this room we should have no contradictions. This natural state of yours today must prevail and be a priority in the adoption of this bill. We only want one thing to do to restore the lost trust. How, though, are we going to restore the lost confidence when counting the ballots takes away the possibility that what has been voted through the machine can be put on the record? We'd like to have the S.E.C.'s intervention again to count the ballots even from the machine. We're all aware that the problem is counting! The problem is where you can reach in and create an opportunity for your participants in the sectional committees to give a head start to your voters. Now that's the loss of trust. And one more thing. How can we trust the people outside to have confidence in this National Assembly when I listen to the President of the National Assembly the other day, and today, including, with his attempts to say that some people were coming to the relevant area who wanted to vote machine. Two days ago, my esteemed colleague Hristov addressed a colleague with a remark that there was no logic in his speech, and only a few words before that I noticed when he said to Mr. Tsonev the expression: "Dancho, take it out and put it again." [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u83	Please, Mr. Atalay!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u84	And then I heard our chairman who said, "You can use all three fingers. " - And the machines were turned off.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u85	Don't you think you're going far in your tongue?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u86	I'm talking about trust, Mr. Chairman, and don't interrupt me that the time is short! And what can I tell you about that colleague who doubted that even the MPs of a particular political formation could not vote with machines? I seriously doubt whether it can distinguish between a machine and some other tools? [[(Comments from GERB: Which colleague? Which one?]] Colleagues, if we continue in this way, if you do not create that trust that is necessary in society and people do not go calmly to the polls to be able to give their vote, and satisfied that they have chosen the political formation that will give them the vision and development for the future, you see that the trust of the National Assembly is 7.2%. After today's push, I don't know how much it's gonna be, and that's why we're not gonna support the bill, we're gonna support the veto. We want to have a debate in this room, and I'm asking you. Do not think of yourself as people for whom the entire National Assembly is working against the voters of GERB, you are working against them. They don't trust you anymore. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] They even now wonder why and in what way you do not allow them to go to the polls and not receive the pressure. And if you're going to accuse Mr. Tsvetanov of doing these things and try to rip his tail off, be assured you won't succeed. Colleagues, let us give the National Assembly today a chance to rebuild the dialogue to restore confidence in the electoral process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u87	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. That wasn't you. I'm guessing something's affected you. That wasn't your language. That's how I feel about it, Mr. Atalay, but if you insist it's you... Are there any lines to Mr. Atali? You're trying to spare him the fun out of the back. Mrs. Ninova, you've made a statement. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u88	Dear Bulgarian citizens, on the subject election process, I think there are three problems, one result of these problems and one solution in this political environment that we find ourselves in. The three problems. First, we will again hold elections and again the majority makes changes at the last moment. Extremely vicious practice, which has an external and internal effect for Bulgaria. We have been repeatedly condemned and criticised by the Venice Commission in the reports on the rule of law, in the last European Parliament resolution on this vicious practice and change of legislation in recent months. The internal effect of this creates uncertainty, inevitability of legislation, there is no time for preparation of the electoral administration, for training of the sectional committees and is one of the reasons for some of the vices of the electoral process. The second problem is the elections in Bulgaria are falsifying and manipulating. And if someone thinks otherwise, then let's see a number of evidence in the years during the management of GERB, not only the film in which GERB activists are instructed how to make invalid ballots, not only those footage in the hall "Arena" where GERB MPs carry bags of ballots at the night of the election day. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Many more examples may be given, but I think there is no doubt in this Chamber and beyond that the elections in Bulgaria are being falsified and manipulated. My fellow Members, who are questioning the results of the invalid ballots, I will quote the statement of the President of the Central Election Commission, Vash, in 2019: Almost 466 000 invalid ballots. In a number of municipalities the invalid votes are 60% and in separate sections are 90%. The local elections, the result of forgeries and manipulations. And, honourable Members, it is very simple, it is very low to say closely party: but these ballots were not all for BSP. It matters which party they are for, but much more important than that for the parties is for Bulgaria because half a million Bulgarians are left unpresented in the Bulgarian Parliament. So much for forgery and manipulation. The third problem is forgeries, manipulations, forged protocols, deleted ballots are a consequence. The reason is that you bet the terms of this in the law. Years ago, we told you from this tribune: corruption is no longer just giving and taking bribes, corruption is putting it in the law and making it unpunished. Now you are doing the same in the electoral rules. The conditions for for forgery bet in the amendments to the Election Code. The result of all these three problems, which are: a change in legislation, forgeries and legalization through acts of the National Assembly, so the result of all of this is: the real vote of the sovereign is distorted, the rule of law and the democratic state is replaced and no one thinks about representative democracy which is in danger at this moment, precisely because many people do not feel represented here and they become apathetic, they believe in no political power and they do not want to be part of the political decisions and problems in Bulgaria. This is the big problem and the result of everything you do. What is the solution at this point where you have a majority where you are stubborn, where you are self-sufficient and do not want to hear any arguments from opposition or from the people who protest on the streets? At this point, because it will change, the solution is one thing and today I address all parties in parliament, parties outside parliament, NGOs, civil associations that are on the street and protesting, one of the solutions to this problem today is in our union for fair elections. I address them to all these parties and structures of society. We know that now is a time when forces are measured, where weapons are knocked down for early elections or for regular elections, votes are counted, counting who will have how many MPs. None of this will matter if we do not all come together today to ensure fair elections. And we at BSP are handing out, and let's put aside our demand for ledation, the dominance of who will be greater in this process. There is no place here for measure of strength and greatness. Here we all need to unite behind the common goal of guaranteeing fair elections, and then, when we appear in such fair elections, the people will decide which of us to trust. And the second decision is in the high turnout. That is why my second address today from the platform of parliament is to the Bulgarian citizens "You must like different parties," and this is your civil, democratic, constitutional, Bulgarian law, just exercise it. The only way at the moment to put an end to this model of governance and to ensure that it will not reproduce again as Borisov 4, is a high turnout. If you are 66% of Bulgarian citizens who want a change in Bulgaria, who support the protests, go out on election day and show this with your vote - no matter which party you vote for, it is your choice - we will all together make sure that the governance model can be changed in fair elections. So united parties for honest vote and Bulgarians who want change will succeed. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u89	Thank you. - What's the line? The line, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mrs. Ninova, I really liked your speech. [[Radio.]] And I hope that same tone will be preserved when the parliamentary elections pass. We'll remind you of that, be sure of that thing. Naturally, every single party, and GERB as a leading party in recent years has always appealed first for high voter turnout because we felt that the more people vote, from a purely selfish point of view, more people will vote for GERB. It's always been our vision, and that's how it should be. But don't contradict each other, because, on the one hand, you say we should unite around fair elections, around that we almost recognize the elections, shake hands. If we go back a little bit in time, you will see that the biggest election manipulation was the case of Kostinbrod, because he directly influenced the day of reflection of the will of the people, that he questioned some democratic elections, and that we cannot forget. It is a question of political culture, after all. Not today to go out and appeal and make such nice words about how the democratic process should be developed in the elections, but you must remember this because when the elections pass... I just gave an example of the 2016 presidential election, what happened? GERB came out and what did he say? We congratulated you on your victory, we accepted our loss, we counted our mistake, if there was one, and never, ever, again, we never accused anyone of manipulating the election, or because of that we lost the election. And you do it every time. [[Applause from GERB]] , and this is still a matter of some political growth of the entire political class, which should not be allowed. I just said, yes, there are attempts at manipulation, yes, there are many mistakes. Other countries have dealt with this issue in some ways by creating permanent sectional committees or example people with higher education rates to be able to guarantee this particular problem with the creation of such errors.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u91	Mr. Nenkov, finish your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u92	But at the end of the day, when the elections are over, I believe in all parties, and political culture requires that we shake hands and whatever the will of the voters is, that it be for the future, and that the matter is over. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u93	Thank you. Mr. Zablyanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u94	Dear Mr. Hristov, dear MPs! Dear Mrs. Ninova, these in your speech particularly impress the call for mass participation of Bulgarian citizens in the elections, also impresses the call for strengthening the system of representative democracy. I would like to address not only you, I am using this case, as you have given this opportunity, to turn the attention of my colleagues to a specific expression that is changed by the model. You've all heard of him, dear colleagues, for changing the pattern?! And now, if we all strive to validate the model of representative democracy, then we have nothing to change. We must validate representative democracy through Parliament, parties, the behaviour of each and every one of us and the state institutions. This is the model recorded in the Constitution, and all calls for a change of model that we make, let us not refer to representative democracy. Most likely, when we say the model, each of us, depending on the political place it occupies, imagines his views of what the model is, perhaps hidden dependences in politics, perhaps presence in the policy of non-political entities. Let us then focus on eliminating these political factors, not on representative democracy, so as not to get what a classic said: along with the dirty water to throw away the baby. And another question about the mass involvement of citizens and confidence in the elections. Honourable Members, my comrades and I yesterday tabled a proposal to repeal the mandatory vote written in our Election Code. [[Replying from the O.P.: "Search, weather! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u95	Time is running out, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u96	Yeah, yeah, I know about the weather. Well, cancel the mandatory vote. No one respects him, no one controls him, no one sanctions him, and that's how you compromise all the legislation. Let the Bulgarian citizens participate voluntarily in the elections, not necessarily in order to participate actively. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u97	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Mr. Ivanov, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u98	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Ms. Ninova, I support your call and always GERB's parliamentary group have really supported the participation of all Bulgarian citizens in the electoral process and it is as such that they give the highest representation in both parliaments and local parliaments and in the local authorities and in the Parliament of Europe. When you speak from this tribune and call for the attention of Bulgarian citizens and media, please, we owe them a very clear explanation: not to abuse, I have repeatedly called on your colleagues from your parliamentary group, with the invalid ballots and to dwell on factology. I went back to the CEC website to look at the following: you say that the parliament does not represent 500 000 Bulgarian citizens. This is a frankly false statement from this tribune. You may quote data on over 460 thousand invalid ballots, which are relatively less than previous years, but when voting for local parliaments, mayors of municipalities, mayors of districts, mayors of settlements. And that 400,000 missing ballots are at 6 million. 216,000. ballots released, i.e. these are elections in which Bulgarian citizens have had the opportunity to vote with more than one ballot. So please do not distort this statement from the National Assembly's stand that these people are not represented, even more so in the elections to Parliament. These were the 2019 elections for local power. This average and percent measured is 7.49%, which in previous elections is both in the management of GERB, and in the management of BSP, and the SDS, and in all previous governments, are really much less invalid ballots. I therefore also call on you and your colleagues to stop abusing this claim that the invalid ballots have deprived more Bulgarian citizens of more than half a million, of representation, especially in this Parliament. The other thing I would like to say is that it is also good, speaking from this tribune, to give a personal example of these calls that you have to the Bulgarian citizens, to the other parliamentary groups. Again, I've asked it repeatedly to your colleagues...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u99	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u100	...as a question: BSP's election on paper or on a machine were held? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u101	Thank you. Mrs. Ninova's doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u102	Dear colleague Nenkov, you misunderstand me. I understand that for four years at least, very well your desire to give a hand between GERB and BSP is familiar. You've got me all wrong today, though. We are not giving you a hand or inviting you to this common front for fair elections, because you are a guarantor of false elections. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I turned to all the other parties, civil alliances, protesting honest and honest Bulgarians who want to change your model of governance. Colleague Zablyanov, this is not the model of representative democracy, but the model of the mafia-oligaric government of the state, headed by the governments of Boyko Borisov for 10 years. So even the next lines you've made prove that you didn't understand what I called for, you challenge numbers, you contest figures, which party it was, why it wasn't. Colleagues, this is about Bulgaria, not this or that party. It is said that with what you are doing, for years you have been destroying the foundations of statehood, the division of authorities, representative democracy, the authority of parliament, and perhaps you are ruling illegally with falsified elections. This is Bulgaria's big problem. [[GERB lines.]] And for that, too. Apart from all the other reasons and reasons in these years, we do not wish with you to give these guarantees for fair elections. On the contrary, as I said, you are a guarantee that they will be corrupted again. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Mr. Letifov, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, my procedure in the manner of conduct is to you, Mr. Chairman, because today's debate is extremely important, it is next. We are using all of the president's veto to say once again the arguments that have not been heard. We are having this debate to say that these texts that we have adopted, this code contradicts the Constitution, we are having this debate to hear the different opinions and to remind once again that the constitutional rights of the Bulgarian citizens have been violated. Yet, you make a remark to a Member of the National Assembly, a colleague of mine, what his language was or was not his language. That's none of your business, Mr. Chairman. Each Member of the National Assembly shall have the right to freely express his views and, if he has violated the Rules of Procedure, to sanction him. These are MPs, Mr. Chairman, not garden tools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u105	I find it difficult to answer that question, Mr. Letifov, because we're about to go to extremes. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] I think I have reacted politely and calmly enough to the statement of Mr. Atalay, whom I respect very much, and that is why I have reacted in this way. I think you were just distracted at the time. [[DPS lines.]] Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u106	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! There is an alarming trend in both these debates and in the debates when we adopted the Law. This trend is not now, it has been for several years and shows that the issue of electoral legislation and the implementation of the electoral process of the technological issue of democracy is beginning to become ideological. We are already beginning to be divided into ideological principles in terms of who wants to have a machine vote, who wants to have a paper vote, who is for a mixed vote. My personal opinion, I specifically, make a serious compromise in general by supporting that there should be machines in the electoral process in Bulgaria at all and I will tell you why. Just because you have turned you and other political forces, not just you, into mantra machine voting, does not mean that it does not pose risks much greater than paper. By the way, I will inform you that there has been a debate in the United States for years on the removal of machine voting, including with the argument that it is destroying democracy because it is a very risky exercise. Very easy to hack machines from a distance, even though they are not included on the Internet, very easy to read, and watch documentary films on this issue of American journalists about the elections in America, how an IT specialist from 20 meters away manages to block the machine, how an IT specialist from 20 meters away manages to manipulate the machine and tell her what note to take out afterwards. And that's a fact. The machine vote, colleagues, is not some miraculous force that is perfect. If so, it would most likely have been introduced anywhere in the world, or at least in this world that we, and you, are striving for. Here it was said: well we experimented, let's introduce it fully. And are we reading whether this experiment was successful? Because, for example, in the Netherlands, they reported that their experiment was unsuccessful in Norway, and decided not to introduce a machine vote at all. [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria]] By the way, the debates in the United States at the moment where there is potential to challenge the elections, one of the reasons is the engine vote and the reluctance of the Democrats to recognise this vote as legitimate. We have a bigger problem than the United States, with both engine and paper voting, because with us trust in the electoral process has collapsed to very low levels. One of the reasons for the collapse of confidence in the electoral process is that a few months before almost all elections come out a variety of parties and say: these elections are counterfeit, and they have not passed yet. The president of the country goes out and says: elections will be faked. This man does not understand anything about electoral legislation, in his team there is not a single person who understands this topic, because most of his team are people who until four years ago have been forbidden by law to engage in politics and have obviously respected this law. What is Mr. Radev's idea is more credible because you are really dealing with elections, but his idea is extremely mistaken for the election process, so how to win elections and so on. That you cannot win elections is not always an issue of electoral legislation. Two weeks ago, elections were held in small settlements. There was one thing: there is only one national party in Bulgaria, all the other parties in Bulgaria are regional. They are able to raise their candidates and make a real political campaign only in certain regions, including the Bulgarian Socialist Party. Maybe this is one of the problems that you can't win enough votes to become the first political force. That is where the calls for the other regional parties come from - to make a fatherly front because you cannot win the elections, to organise a fatherly front of everyone and to govern, as you did 2013 - 2014 from the position of a second political force. But the problem remains. The problem is that we continue to suggest to the Bulgarian citizens that the elections are unfair, that there is no point in voting. Then we wonder why some of them didn't go to vote. Well, if ten people from this tribune say: the elections do not matter at all because they will fake GERB, how do you expect to gather people who will go to vote, although they are unfair? Worse still, when the president says it, how do you expect people to go and vote? Trust is the most important thing in a democracy, and trust in the electoral process is the foundation of representative democracy. I don't know if we realize what we're doing with making this technological process ideological. If it's us, then the election is fair, if it's not us, then it's fake, because we're perfect, and we can't lose choices. In democracy, elections are lost, and that's why it's a good system, because there you have the right to lose. You have no right to lose in dictatorship. I will call you not to shake hands, but Mrs. Ninova misunderstood Mr. Nenkov, we have a solution that we will not co-operate with BSP and we have accepted it three years ago, we have not cancelled it and we will not cancel it. So no one wanted you. That Mrs. Nino feels wanted by many countries is now her problem. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] But with regard to the elections I see hints that almost the elections will not be recognized if they are won by GERB. Given Radev's political competence, I think he is capable of doing such a thing and is now preparing. If we do this, it means that we will cross over the last 30 years of democracy and cross over the whole democratic tradition that we have built with extreme effort, we will return to zero position and start over. If all elections in Bulgaria were falsified and manipulated, there would probably be only one political power in all institutions. By the way, in a number of Middle Asian and Latin American countries, machine voting leads to this. There is a party there, there is one chief, and often this chief is inherited from his direct heirs on the biological line... by machine voting. So let us remain within the normal political debate, let each have his own opinion, let us not fetish certain electoral techniques, let us not lie to people that there is an ideal election process anywhere. There are problems everywhere, including in Bulgaria. Let us try to keep confidence in the electoral process and thus stimulate as many people as possible to exercise their right to vote. From there on, let the Bulgarian people decide in what direction to go and leave him the option of choice, not to call a million voters of GERB that they have been bought, paid and participated in forgeries. That's too many people to be organized forgery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u107	Thank you, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u108	Can I have a procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u109	A line? Third line, come in. Who wanted the word for procedure here? It's not with a smile, it's with a raise, Mr. Zablyanov. Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u110	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bikov, you are talking about trust in the election process. There can be no trust in the electoral process, since trust in this National Assembly is reduced to the mischievous 7%. Once again, we remembered that we had to change the Election Code. Now what do you challenge by asking for trust in the electoral process? You are doing parallel introduction of the two types of elections in one section of paper and machine. They will process the two arrays in two separate ways and join together in one protocol. Well, this chaos that you create with the parallel introduction will lead to the collapse of trust in the electoral process. From your entire statement, which was long and justified, you said: no to the machines. You said: we want to create this chaos at the moment, so that in the next election we can cross over the engine voting option and proceed only to paper ballots. Gentlemen of the majority, when you spoke in the Chamber about how little the machines were used, this chaos created it during the European elections. Then you introduced the whole last-minute hiring procedure, didn't train the section committees, and that's why there were sections in which the machines were oriented against the committees and the committees themselves called for the machines not to be used. All these parallel introductions of the two types of voting will not result in a return of confidence in the electoral process, but rather the opposite. Admit it, you don't want machines!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Second line, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u112	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Bikov, I would like to replicate and remind you of the film in which you played about 7 months ago, namely the midnight adoption of the DSS proposal for engine voting. That's what you supported and then rushed into the studios to explain how right it was. Again one morning after about seven months you wake up and find that there is no need for a machine vote. Here is this film You have to explain: how is it that, suddenly, after inquiries, after consultations, after enough discussions, you change your mind? Is that what you call a predictable election process because I call it following orders?! And the other thing is, stop talking about the United States and how they vote. The main dispute there is not about the engine vote, but about the mail vote, colleague. And one more thing. [[Replys: "Good note for the post. "]] Yeah, that's right. Watch the film How a new Constitution is accepted will be useful for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u113	Your time is up. Thank you. Third line? I can't see. Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u114	Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Klisurska, I thank you for the line, because you reminded me to argue why there is paper. Now you have the opportunity to count the invalid ballots. If you only have one machine and it blocks, then you will have no chance to count who has failed to exercise their right to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u115	There will be no mistake in the machine!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u116	If the machine isn't working, what is it? What if the machine blocks in the middle of election day? What if there's a huge line arching in front of you because you're voting a lot slower on a machine? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You keep talking to mantras, not arguments. As far as my position is concerned, it has never changed. I say that engine voting carries a number of risks and we must take these risks into account. In 2014, your former party Mrs. Maya Manolova, current revolutionary and poet, introduced both machine and paper voting with a group of amateurs who were then involved in writing the Election Code, was not invited any of the seven people in Bulgaria who understand in depth the election process. This, by the way, is one of our huge problems for everyone here that we very rarely address these few people who live in Bulgaria and really understand election legislation. This is both our sin and yours. I believe that we should hold these elections as we have already decided, because perhaps the risk of making an even more imperfect law is greater than making it more perfect. There is little time until the elections, let each of us concentrate on our constituents, try to convince them to vote, try to attract the non-voting on their side and then acknowledge the election results each other. We've always recognized them. You can go back and see that when President Radev won the elections, we were among the first to go and congratulate him. We didn't say we did everything wonderfully, but they chose him because you faked the election. So let's try to calm people down, not put them into hypotheses and fictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u117	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Mr. Mitev, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will return to the motives of the veto we are discussing today. Unfortunately, another veto in which, legally speaking, the motives are formally becoming weaker and weaker and increasingly untenable and unfounded. In five points, the President expressed his disagreement with the amendments adopted and additions to the Election Code, which, in paragraph 5, is clearly the least important, according to the President, points out a purely procedural point relating to the adoption of the amendments to the Election Code, namely time. He argues that the amendments adopted were only a few months before regular parliamentary elections were held and used a quote from one of the recommendations of the Venice Commission. Unfortunately, however, neither the quote is correct nor the conclusion regarding the time of adoption of the changes is correct. The Venice Commission recommends that no changes to electoral legislation be made in the last six months. In the case of the Law amending and supplementing the Election Code, this was done before the six-month period before the date on which regular parliamentary elections were to take place. These changes are a fact. Therefore, this remark and this objection of the President cannot be accepted. In his motives, the President also dwells on the changes that were made to the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government, and in these reasons the President is practically contradicting himself. He once said that he shares the public need to expand the various forms of participation of citizens in the state government and does not deny the right of discretion of parliament which of these forms to tolerate and which not, and at the same time says: "I think that such a palliative extension of the opportunities for direct democracy does not give citizens any more opportunities to resolve direct issues by the state authorities. When is he right? Anyone can judge for himself which of the two statements is true and which of these overlaps the President. The fact is, however, that this amendment has actually given voters more opportunities to rule on key issues related to state power, government and practically these changes represent a decisive form in terms of direct democracy in Bulgaria. I regret to say that the President is not sure how good these changes are. His position is unclear whether he supports them or not, by his motives at least I couldn't understand that. Another of the President's objections is the designation of Information Service as a company that will perform the computer processing of election results. The fact is, it has been repeatedly pointed out in the debates on the Bill that 10 years in a row the only participant in the computer processing contest is precisely this state-owned majority state-owned company. Even if we had kept the old regime, the result wouldn't have been different. In producing a new procedure of this type again the only candidate would be Information Service and again Information Service would win this competition. More than that. Let us not forget that in the case of another majority from the left side of the Chamber, the Bulgarian National Bank, which is 100% with state participation, has no doubt about organizing the process of printing the ballots. So I do not see any problems with the draft legislative decision on this either. To tell you the truth, I cannot understand the logic of opposition in terms of unification in the protocol of the invalid, wronged and destroyed by the sectary committee ballots. There, the President says there is a need for further technical operations relating to the summation of the total number of these types of ballots to be reflected in the minutes. It's completely false and it doesn't answer the truth. Either the President has never seen an election protocol, or has never bothered to monitor the election process closely, but practically this change in the Law will ease the sectional election committees. It is a fact that so far, a large part of the errors I would say that more than half of the errors in the protocols and, respectively, in the controls set by the Central Election Commission, are due precisely to the mistakes made by the sectional election committees when filling this particular data. Data which, contrary to what is recorded in the veto's motives, are practically irrelevant in relation to the electoral process and do not carry with them such information as it is trying to give them. Finally, the President's main objection is to the method of voting with machines and paper ballots. I believe that what has been achieved as an authorisation is fair authorisation. Fairly, because citizens are given the opportunity to choose. Let them choose whether the method of voting on paper is fairer, whether the way of voting on machines is better. Let each judge for himself and choose this way of voting, which he believes will give him an honest and fair vote. The president in this section says he insists on introducing only and entirely machine voting, as he says the paper ballot vote leads to manipulation of vote and election forgery. Does this mean, however, that the vote with which Mr. Radev was elected is, I quote: There was no machine voting there. The president himself is practically contradicting himself. It turns out that when he is elected with paper ballots, they guarantee an honest and fair vote without manipulation and forgery, but when it comes to another kind of choice, suddenly machines become a panacea for all problems of electoral legislation, and paper leads to manipulations and forgery. This, of course, is not serious, unfounded and cannot be supported by this part of the veto and the motives expressed by the President. The problem of manipulation and forgery is not in the way of voting, the problem is mainly before the vote and, unfortunately, in buying votes, in the controlled and corporate vote, for which the President is silent. For these reasons, our parliamentary group will not support the veto and will support the adoption of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u119	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Are there any lines? I can't see. Mr. Hamid. [[Reply from MP Jayhan Ibryamov.]] I'll give you my word, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u120	Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner of conduct and is directed towards you. Please read the Rules of Procedure and after we have run out of speaking procedures, replica, duplicate, give the floor to the procedure. She was asked a few times by raising her hand, by raising her hand, by smiling and so on. You even wrote down that the procedure was requested with a smile. Instead, you gave the floor to the next MP to speak. My second remark is: I do not want you to assume from this tribune false statements to my friend Bikov. He is not responsible for the seven per cent authority of this National Assembly. We all know who did this. Tighten up a little bit! It's not Saturday and you're not in Lom! [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u121	Here you are again challenging me to a remark. I was under the impression, Mr. Hamid, that Mr. Zablyanov is giving up the procedural question because he... [[Reply from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.]] You haven't given up, Mister... [[Reply from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.]] I saw you, but I didn't see you preparing for a speech. [[Loud noise and lines. A line from the MP Hamid Hamid.]] Okay, I get it, Mr. Hamid. And as for the second part of your procedure with me, Mr. Hamid... [[Loud noise and lines.]] Here you go, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u122	My procedure is very brief, Mr. Chairman. Half of Mr. Bikov's speech wasn't heard because the sound wasn't good. Maybe you should really fix the microphones, because apart from being invisible, it's obviously not being heard. In this way, there is no way to increase trust in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u123	Thank you. Mr. Zablyanov, I thought of a picture, you know? [[Loud noise and lines.]] Let's increase the microphones. I'd ask the MPs... Okay, we took the security stuff off the microphones to make it sound better, but when you're away from the microphones, it's also a difficulty for me to hear exactly what it's saying. Please, colleagues, closer to the microphones. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u124	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I will try to be at the height of the political debate. Today there have been many calls for trust in this Election Code and in this law, which we are looking at, of course, and about how some Members understand an election process, participate in elections and make elections for years. I'll say, colleagues, go and make choices. Let lawmakers who feel like legislators in this House make laws, because for some colleagues to make laws clearly means: see how powerful this law is, how it protects the state. A law must be for the benefit of people, to be passed by people and to see the results. From the motives, as well as from the debates in the Chamber, when we examined these amendments to the Election Code, we clearly stated that this is a Law that destroys confidence in Parliament and not only, it is a destructive law. He's back as vetoed by the president in incomplete, because there are gaps, honourable Members! For us, it is clear that there are gaps in using a language that you know. I will justify the language we know in a European country cannot be used during elections. If Mr. Weber, Mr. Donald Tusk, even Mrs. Ursula von der Lyon, by any chance running for office in Bulgaria, they cannot use the language they know, notice, even with a translator, because the Election Code does not allow it, but we are talking about trust. When Bulgaria became a member of the European Union, we solidarity with the laws of the European Union, so we introduce synchronizations, only obviously when it is pleasing. I do not understand this stubbornness of the majority responsible for not being able to use the language you know in a European country. Another major flaw in this electoral code is, of course, the so-called sedentary. I am sure that very few people know what sedentary means, that is, you restrict the rights of Bulgarian citizens who are entitled to vote, only that it is contrary to the basic law without giving them the right to vote, to vote where they are. Colleagues, yesterday with great attention I followed the debates in the Committee on Legal Affairs. The main reason for the introduction of paper voting is for Bulgarian citizens to be able to exercise their right to vote. Provide that right to vote! Sustainability limits this right to vote and does not allow, as colleagues express themselves: we are responsible. No, colleagues, it destroys trust in both this law, which we are looking at today, as well as in the government. Of course, when we consider amendment and supplement and debate on a given law, you will say: but this is an attitude towards the authorities, to the various authorities. When the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is supporting and expressing its arguments for a given law, it is because it is for the benefit of citizens and statehood.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u125	Please complete the statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u126	This is our attitude entirely to power, honourable Members! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u127	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. - What's the line? I won't. Mrs. Alexandrova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! In his motives, the President states that the legislator confirms the combination of machine and paper votes as the main position of the electoral process with which he expresses reservations. I disagree with the President's motives because in the electoral process, as early as it was adopted in 2014, it was regulated in the electoral section that the voter of his choice could vote by paper ballot or by the machine voting ballot. The only change we accepted was to secure a machine vote anywhere, not as the current norm at this time of art. 206, para. 1 of the Election Code that machine voting is available only in the sections designated for it. In this way, the Political Party GERB again listened to the citizens' request to provide machine voting everywhere, and we also settled a number of specific issues related to the introduction of machine voting, unforeseen in the Code, leading to a fragmentation and uncertainty in the electoral process. This is also noted in the Code of Good Practice on Election Issues, where it is stated that electronic voting should be used only if it is safe and reliable. It must also be possible to ensure that the system withstands deliberate interference, can function independently, and it will be possible to verify that it is functioning properly. The Joint Opinion of the Venice Commission and the OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights adopted on 7 February 2014 states that the Election Code allows for machine voting using electronic means if a voter chooses to vote that way. It is underlined that although art. 213 provides a list of some general principles for this alternative form of voting, there is no guarantee that these general principles will be met with the specific rules that are essential for genuine democratic and fair elections held in secret. In this regard, the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers stresses in its recommendation that e-voting should be as reliable and secure as democratic elections and referendums that do not include the use of electronic means. Point 15 of the Recommendations in the report on the OSCE limited mission to monitor early parliamentary elections in 2017 states that in order to be able to prepare and implement machine voting in a timely manner, the legal framework should be amended. It is said that both the provisions and the time for sufficient testing, certification and verification, as reflected by the opposition, should be considered. I focus on all these recommendations because before applying a full machine vote, we introduced each one of them by legislatively strengthening the certification of voting devices by the State Agency This amendment was introduced not only because of the recommendations, but also because the Report on the Organization and holding of Elections for the period 2015 - 2017 of the Central Election Commission found that nine sections did not present a control memory of the voting machine in the Regional Election Commission for the processing of the results and therefore the data from their manual transfer from the minutes of the selection committees were used when reporting, and seven sections when entering the data from the minutes of the Regional Election Committees found a partial discrepancy between the data from the control memory and the manual data from the machine voting in the minutes of the selection election committees. We stress that we have tabled this proposal and adopted it only so that, in the full introduction of a machine vote, we can ensure that the votes cast are properly taken into account and that no voter who has the right to vote will be deprived of the opportunity to exercise his selective right. I cannot agree with the President's reasoning that the columns in the sectional protocols are formally united, and that would in practice not make the work of the sectional election committees easier. I should emphasise that the number of the destroyed, the wronged and the three types of invalid ballots is negligible, small, as highlighted by the Central Election Commission's report in the last European elections for Members of the European Parliament. Colleagues, just to clarify: the invalid ballots under art. 227 are a ban on the use of reproducing equipment. Mobile phone, camera and so on, on the taking of the voting method, and the invalid ballots under art. 228 are a ban on showing how to vote. The non-executives of art. 265, para. If the ballot number corresponds to the number on the cob, if it does not correspond, the ballot shall be declared invalid. Regarding the proposal for direct award of the computer processing of voting data and the issue of a newsletter with the results of the elections of In its motives, the President finds that the introduction of the provision intuito personae, especially where it affects the regulatoryly established competence of a state body, is contrary to the constitutional principle of the rule of law and the focus of certain activities within a particular company does not contribute to the fulfilment of constitutional commitments. Here again, I will not agree with these statements, as the proposed amendment is by analogy with the provision of art. No. 209, para. 1 of the Election Code, where the printing of paper ballots is regulated by the printing company of the Bulgarian National Bank, which is also a joint stock company registered under the Commercial Law. And I would ask the rhetorical question: is printing the ballots also violating the same legal conditions for business? And is the norm contrary to the constitutional principle of the rule of law? I would stress that, in practice, the conduct of a competition for the award of computer processing of voting data and the issuance of ballots to the Central Election Commission for a single participant takes away resources in the most busy period before the production of the choice concerned, and significantly delays the implementation of the activities related to the preparation of the elections and needs to be implemented as soon as possible after their expiry. To conclude, I agree with the constitutional decisions cited in the President's reasoning, namely the 1997 Constitutional Court Decision No 4 and the 2011 Constitutional Court Decision No 4 where the Constitutional Court has repeatedly emphasised that universal equal and direct selective law should be guaranteed in compliance with the principles of balance and equality, which, with the amendments and additions proposed by us, we aim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. - What's the line? There are no lines. Mrs. Taskova, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u130	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Ms. Alexandrova may have tried to return the debate on the topic of today's veto, but we from the Bulgarian Rhodophilizers (Bulgarian Rhodophiles) are definitely amazed at the way the same is repeated in this House during each discussion of the Election Code. We are amazed by the rollover of political positions constantly and the inadequacy with which these political positions defend themselves. What do I mean? When we first accepted the machines, we from the Bulgarian Rhodophilizers (Bulgarian Rhodophiles) categorically declared against them and said absolutely all the problems that will follow. We even had to teach a lesson what hardware is, what software is, and how it can be manipulated much easier than a paper protocol. We have repeatedly made suggestions to introduce video surveillance in the sections after the election day is over, when opening the polls and counting the ballots, so that every Bulgarian citizen can be sure that his vote is counted correctly and observe this on the page of the relevant OIC or RIK. This was also rejected. What am I listening to today? I am under the impression that there are no MPs here who really want to protect the right to vote of the Bulgarian citizen, but specialists in manipulation and counterfeiting of elections. I specifically address BSP colleagues who said they knew how to fake and manipulate elections. Let them really give the competent authorities all their signals, because this is fundamental to the existence and work of the state, colleagues! Who will manage the state and which election program and management program will be implemented at all, determines absolutely the fate of every Bulgarian citizen. And in conclusion, I would like to conclude by saying that the machine will not solve the issue of elections, because we are all already witnessing that it actually contributes to confusion, but we will again support the Law and will not support the veto. We would only support the veto if only it were aimed at dropping out the machines, starting, opening the debate on electronic machine counting of the ballots, because that's where the problems are. Let's start the debate on a modern, remote, electronic vote, only that would increase voter turnout, only that would make many young people vote. Those are the major problems. Because whether it is with a machine or with paper, it will not motivate any Bulgarian citizen to express his will. So, colleagues, you don't have to repeat the same thing. I, as a person extremely responsible, have been following every single statement, and you've been talking about it for three years now. If you want to suggest to the Bulgarian citizens that everything is being manipulated, then please really take out these signals, they will benefit every single political party and every single Bulgarian citizen. Thank you. [[Private applause from the Bulgarian Rhodophilizers.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Taskova. Do you have any lines? I can't see. We continue with Mr. Tzipov's statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm going to try to be brief and talk about the underlying motives on the presidential veto. The theme that we have not addressed is the reason why the President expresses concern that the Central Election Commission does not have the capacity to meet the technical requirements for the programming part of the machine voting devices, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to provide the technical devices for machine voting by purchasing or hiring them. I would like to draw your attention to what are the texts in force, honourable Members, of the Election Code at the moment and thus to refute those motives which are set out in the veto imposed. The current version of art. 18, para. 1 provides that the printing of paper ballots, notice, machine voting and related activities shall be entrusted and supervised by the Central Election Commission, and the Council of Ministers, honourable Members of Parliament, shall coordinate the activities of the executive bodies in relation to the substantive and technical provision of elections. The Council of Ministers is also responsible for the costs of preparing and producing elections, honourable MPs. So, in this case, these concerns by the President, set out in his motives that the Council of Ministers is actually running away from responsibility, do not respond to the current texts of the Election Code. What has been done with the adoption of this law is to state very clearly what the competences of the Central Election Commission are and with regard to the provision of technical devices and with regard to technical requirements, as regards the programme provision of these devices. It is quite clear, honourable MPs, in this law it was pointed out that the State Agency of Electronic Management and the Bulgarian Institute of Standardization and the Bulgarian Institute of Metrology also certified the compliance of the technical devices for machine voting with the requirements of the Law. So in conclusion, honourable Members of Parliament, I would like to call on you to vote on the adoption of the Law. I think that in today's debate, a large part of the President's motives have been refuted very clearly and specifically, although we have not been debating the reasons for this veto, but we have been debating who has done what in recent years, using many manipulations. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u133	Thank you, Mr. Tzipov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Colleagues, group time is running out. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I will re-vote the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code. I re-vote the Law amending and supplementing the Election Code adopted by the National Assembly on 17 September 2020. Vote 213 MPs: 124 against 89, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. The Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code has been re-approved. The law will be sent to the President of the Republic for promulgation in the Official Journal of the Republic within seven days of its receipt under art. 101, para. 3 of the Constitution. Time out for 30 minutes. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u134	Colleagues, please take your seats. Let's get back to work. Dear Ms. Taskova, you have the floor for a declaration by the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Rhodoliki.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u135	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Another statistics of the European Union came out, which again puts Bulgaria in one of the top places - extremely frightening, extremely disturbing: Bulgaria is at the top of the children's mortality rate! This is not just for this year and for the previous year, it is a problem that we have been seeing for five years. I'm saying it's scary because these numbers are actually children's lives behind them. The risk for every child born in Bulgaria to die before it is 5 years old is 70% higher than the European Union average. According to Eurostat data, 2020 15.5% are the deceased for the year in Bulgaria of every 1000 inhabitants. All parties and parliamentary represented, and outside the parliamentary represented, put children as a priority in their programmes, and in practice, measures and results appear to be lacking. It's the same with the demographic crisis. I suppose you remember that I have repeatedly called the Deputy Prime Minister responsible for the demographic crisis and economic policy with a question of what measures he will take on these horrific facts. The answers so far have always been: "We will take action. " In the three state budgets adopted by this National Assembly, we from the Volya offered to provide assistance for educated and adult parents - 1000 BGN each. For the first child, 2,000 leva. for a second born child, and 3,000 leva each. for a third born child from these families. Now we have initiative for free medicines for pensioners over 65 years and for children up to IV grade. None of the parties at this stage take attitude except us from the Volya, and already over 160 thousand Bulgarians support this initiative. If the state does not put children and family as a top priority today, nothing else matters. I don't need to bring back the debate and passion we've been defending the election process here. It is more important and will always be the most important children of Bulgaria because this is our future. In fact, this statistic comes to show us that it is now a matter of national security to really work for children, although they are not voters. What could be more frightening than reading European reports on high child mortality in Bulgaria about a huge number of children growing in poverty for lack of prevention and access to medicines at normal prices? Bulgaria is melting and money for the children is never there. We urgently need to hear the answers to the following questions: when will there be really free children's healthcare? What is done to prevent child health? The fact is that there are already children and six years of age who are suffering from diabetes, high blood pressure, obesity. Is the health policy of women and mothers adequate? With what does the state support young families to have more than one child? This is the important debate that we are already late to have today, but it is extremely important and, above all, that this debate should not remain in words only, but that there should be rapid action and concrete results from it. That is why we are demanding from the Volya for a hearing of the deputy prime minister of demographic policy, as well as the health minister. In addition, we consider it necessary for the Minister of Health to inform Parliament of the readiness of the institutions to meet a possible wave of COVID-19. You remember that from this tribune in February, I raised this question. I didn't get an understanding of most of you then, but then we saw that the subject is actually extremely relevant and it hasn't gone away at all, but we should talk about what readiness schools are and how the school year will pass if there are really new shocks. As I said at the time: better prepared than subsequently to take any urgent hasty measures. We have also seen that there are no assistance within the European Union, so I think it is really necessary to hear what the plan is. But let's get back to the basics of this raging statistics on Bulgaria. Bulgaria is at the forefront of child mortality, colleagues! I think that everyone in this Chamber, who we have sworn to serve the interest of our people, realizes that there may not be more fear than that, because both the health and the future of Bulgaria, of our entire nation depends on what our children's health will be. We would like to hold a debate on art. 105 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly concerning an inquiry under art. 98 which we of the Vola will deposit today to the portfolio Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy, as well as a request to the health minister. However, you know that we need 48 MPs to recognize children as a national priority for the debate on asking. In order to oblige both the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Health to analyse the reasons why Bulgaria should be first in child mortality in order to oblige the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Health to take urgent measures, to inform the National Assembly and to say what these urgent measures are, these 48 signatures are really needed. Because we can't just leave this as a finding. A truly terrifying, disastrous, disastrous fact is for our country! I believe that there are 48 MPs in this House who, once we submit the question, will supplement our 12 signatures and we will have this debate, which is really important for the future of our country. I sincerely hope that you will not leave Volya alone in this extremely important cause. Thank you. [[Applause from the Bulgarian Rhodolists.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Taskova. Let's continue with: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHILD'S PROTECTION. The representatives of the People's Representative Plamen Hristov and a group of MPs. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov, to present the report to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Child Protection Act, No 054-01-77, submitted by Plamen Trifonov Hristov and a group of MPs on 24 July 2020. At its regular meeting held on 24 September 2020, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports examined and discussed the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Child Protection Act, No 054-01-77, submitted by Plamen Trifonov Hristov and a group of MPs on 24 July 2020. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by Mr. Plamen Hristov, who explained in his statement that the current legislative initiative meets the need to prevent the health of children by the age of 18 by introducing an additional restriction related to the use of smoking products other than tobacco products. The reasons behind the need for legal change are the damage that products resembling tobacco products of unclear origin and a vague substance can do to adolescents. This type of product stimulates children to use them in irregular quantities by consuming them continuously, and this increases the damage to their lives and health, as well as creating attitudes that smoking is a harmless and pleasant habit. The importer explained that the ban already regulated in the Child Protection Act for the sale of children of alcoholic beverages and tobacco and related products is added to the ban on the use by children of this type of products and explicitly added to the smoking products other than tobacco products. With regard to the control and imposition of administrative penalties in relation to the newly regulated prohibition, the bill refers to the Law on Administrative Violations and Penalties, where sanctions for minors are clearly indicated. The importer explicitly stressed that the aim is not to sanction the child, but to punish the unreasonable parents, knowing that a sanction is provided for them for their children. At the end of his exhibition Mr. Hristov explained that it is proposed in the Additional Provisions a legal definition of According to the bill were received opinions from the Ministry of Economy, the State Agency for Child Protection, the National Network of Children, the Coalition for Life without Tobacco Smoke and the Association of Bulgaria without Smoke. The State Agency for Child Protection fully supports the Draft Law and the Ministry of Economy points out remarks related to the proposed legal definition in the Additional Provisions, referring to the existing one in the Tobacco, Tobacco and Related Products Act. Coalition for Life without Tobacco Smoke and Association.Bulgaria without Smoke.. support full expansion of the ban with the inclusion of the use of tobacco and related products, but stresses that the necessary legislative measures should be taken to implement adequate and effective control, including in addition to the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and those of the Ministry of Social Assistance, mayors, regional managements of education and regional health inspections. The National Network of Children is of the opinion that the proposed amendments and additions, with the addition of bans and sanctions, do not protect and protect children from smoking through the right methods, namely prevention and educational methods. During the discussion took part the MPs Vesela Lecheva, Georgi Dinev, Boryana Georgieva and Slavcho Atanasov. The MPs Slavcho Atanasov and Georgi Dinev expressed their full support to the Draft in the first vote, stressing that between the first and second votes proposals will be tabled for the clarification of texts. Mr. Dinev explained that within this period will be discussed the case with the need for notification of the bill. Ms. Boryana Georgieva, expressing her full support for the bill, pointed out to the MPs that they are obliged to do everything necessary to influence the restriction of consumption of tobacco and non-tutual smoking products for the health of the growing generation, and Mrs. Vesela Lecheva explained that she supports in principle the reasons for concern regarding children's health, but will not participate in this vote because she believes that a further opinion is needed to indicate whether the proposed bill is subject to notification. As a result of the discussion and on the basis of the 13-vote vote, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Child Protection Act, No 054-01-77, submitted by Plamen Trifonov Hristov and a group of MPs on 24 July 2020. Thank you, colleagues, for listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u138	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Mr. Hristov, you have the floor to present the opinion of an importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u139	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The legislative initiative of the party "VOLIA" is aimed at preventing the health of children until the age of 18 by introducing an additional restriction on the use, sale and supply of smoking products other than tobacco products. Mr. Atanasov basically presented our bill. I will allow myself to go into details and remind you which laws and regulations currently regulate exactly this topic on which we have concentrated in our bill. The current texts in the Law are currently in the Tobacco, Tobacco and Related Products Act, as art. 30, para. 2, p. 3: The supply and sale of tobacco and related products to and from persons under 18 years of age shall be prohibited. The Child Protection Act prohibits the supply and sale of alcoholic beverages, tobacco and related products to children and again refers to the Tobacco Products Act. From what has been quoted so far, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the general perception of the people with whom we have met, in order to be moved to create this bill and to offer it to you for a vote, was that there is one such notion in society that, at the moment, all types of electronic cigarettes, if we can so conditionally call them, are prohibited for children. After what I have quoted you, however, we can conclude that according to Bulgarian legislation, children are prohibited from selling and offering tobacco and non-tutune products that do not contain nicotine and those on which their principle of work is through the burning process. What does it turn out to be? Products that are not tobacco, for example, those with liquids, flavored, fruity and so on, they are not tobacco, that is, they do not fall under the blows of the Law because they do not contain nicotine and are consumed not by the burning process. These devices work through a process of heating, through a process of vaporization or who knows what other process scientific and technical progress will come up with in the future, so this gives a loophole in the Law, which makes use of unscrupulous traders and producers in Bulgaria. In short, our proposal from the Bulgarian Rhodophilizers is to prohibit the use of this type of device, all substances and substances that can be consumed by any process of consumption. We are introducing a ban on use by children, something that is currently prohibited from selling and offering, is not prohibited use. Why do we forbid use? It makes sense that we should all ask ourselves the question, and that was the main thing that our discussions with many and non-governmental organizations revolved around. Because when selling and offering is prohibited, we all know that our children are the most tempted of this type of products in the yards of the schools there are not sold, are not offered, but if a child has acquired them outside the school yard it is not prohibited to use it and the directors cannot take any measures on this issue. I will not quote to you precisely the texts we propose so that I do not take up more of the time of the MPs. Basically, this is the main thing I wanted to present as a bill. It is interesting to note, however, what is legal regulation for all who wish to offer on the Bulgarian market, to import or produce such types of products. The law regulates such items in art. 43k that manufacturers, importers present, note, in the Ministry of Economy, a list of all ingredients and their quantities of such products, a declaration that the smoking product does not contain a plant or substances which may be classified as narcotics and the next document which presents a date for the submission of information under point 4. 1. The Ministry of Economy is the only ministry that registers, allows such type of products to the market and controls accordingly. Control provides for the creation of one such register by the Ministry of Economy to support all such type of registered products. To be honest, without any claim of completeness, I have not been able to find such a maintained register. What is worrying as a fact, as a consequence of the fact that the Ministry of Economy is engaged.. The Ministry of Economy does not have an authority of the type RZI or, if you will, even by the Food Agency, which can regulate and control the sale of these products. On the other hand, it is not at stake in the genesis of the ministry to examine whether these products, when they will be offered on the Bulgarian market, are harmless. So by pointing out everything in a slightly more free style, I sincerely hope that you all will support our legislative initiative. I thank all my fellow Members in the Commission who have supported it unconditionally. I also thank the BSP colleagues, who I'm sure wanted to support very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u140	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. I'm opening the debate. Colleagues, you have a say in this. I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Child Protection with No 054-01-77, submitted by the National Representative Plamen Hristov and a group of MPs. Vote 101 MPs: 98 against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from the Bulgarian Rhodolists]] For procedure please, Mrs. Georgieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u141	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I request that the period between the first and second votes be two weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-08.u142	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. They voted 102 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I will introduce you to parliamentary control reports on Friday 9 October 2020: 1. The Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov will answer three questions from the MPs Emil Tonchev; and Georgi Mihailov and one question from the MPs Georgi Mihailov, Georgi Gokov, Georgi Yordanov, Desislav Taskov, Ilian Timchev, Valentina Naydenova, Ivan Ibrishimov and Anna Slavova. 2. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer seven questions from the MPs Kristina Sidorova; Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; Kristian Vigenin; Smilyana Nieva; Atanas Tashkov; Mikhail Hristov; and Ivan Chenchev and Rumen Georgiev and one question from the MPs Lubomir Bonev, Nikola Dinkov, Radoslav Stoychev and Nikolay Ivanov. 3. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva will answer three questions from the MPs Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and Violeta Jeleva [[two questions]] ; and Valentina Naydenova. 4. Interior Minister Hristo Terziyski will answer four questions from the MPs Kristian Vigenin; Anton Kutev, Stoyan Mirchev and Yavor Bozhankov; Krasimir Bogdanov; and Teodora Halacheva. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva [[two questions]] - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to a question from the National Representative Irena Anastasova; - the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to two questions from the MPs Kristina Sidorova; and Zhelyo Boychev; - Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Christian Vigenin; - Minister of the Interior Hristo Terziyski, to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Jayhan Ibryamov; - the Minister of Finance Kiril Ananiev to a question from the National Representative Krum Zarkov; and to a question written by the MPs Lalo Kirilov, Krasimir Yankov, Valeri Zablyanov, Nikolai Ivanov, Dimitar Stoyanov and Georgi Andreev. For lack of respectable reasons, Members of the National Assembly shall postpone the responses to: - a question from the National Representative Georgi Turnovaliyski to the Minister of Finance Kiril Ananiev; - a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov. The next regular plenary session of 9 October 2020 of 9:00 in accordance with the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
