ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, I will present to your attention a draft program of the National Assembly for May 14, 2020: "1." Draft Decision establishing a Temporary Commission for the control of public spending related to overcoming the consequences of the spread of COVID-19. Importers suppose Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 8 May 2020. 2. First vote on Bills amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act. Importers suppose Manol Genov and a group of MPs on 19 February 2020; Ivelina Vassileva and a group of MPs on 21 February 2020. 3. Report on the activities of the Temporary Committee for the Study of All Data, Facts and Circumstances regarding the allegations of the scandalous bribery scheme in the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship by foreign citizens and Draft Decision on the Report. Importer of the requested committee of inquiry on 28 February 2020 4. A bill to ratify the Sixth Additional Protocol to the Agreement on the Multinational Peace Forces in South East Europe. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 12 March 2020 Point 1 for Friday, 15 May 2020 5. Parliamentary control. Please, voting mode. Vote 185 MPs: for 178, against none, abstentioned 7. The motion is accepted. Mr. Hamid, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u2	Good morning, Madame Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! My procedure is on the agenda. I propose that item three of the newly voted agenda be item two and point two go to point three. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Hamid. Please vote on the procedure so made. They voted 177 MPs: 149, against 3, abstention 25. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, I will introduce you to the following drafts and drafts from 8 May 2020 to 13 May 2020: Draft Decision establishing a Temporary Commission for the control of public spending related to overcoming the consequences of the spread of COVID-19. Bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. Importers - Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Report on the activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency for 2019 Importer The Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. It has been allocated to the Committee on Culture and Media. Messages: On the basis of art. 75, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly inform the National Assembly that in the final text of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Health, adopted by the National Assembly on 12 May 2020, and sent to the President for promulgation, unpopular in the Official Journal, the following factual error has been found, which will be removed in the final text of the Law in its promulgation. In § 41, para. 1 words.............................................................................. 63, para. 1 and para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 63, para. 4 and para. 7 (as a result of the technical error made in writing the references to the new version of art. 63 of the Health Act. The order and notification shall be sent to the MPs of their service e-mails. On 12 May 2020, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 May 2015 to 25 January 2020 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 May 2020 to 25 January 2020 (OJ L 55, 12.1.2001, p. 1). 1 of the National Assembly's Decision of 13 December 2019 was received information from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova in connection with the debates on questions by the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Manol Genov, Atanas Kostadinov, Lubomir Bonev, Milko Nedyalkov, Vasil Antonov, Ivan Valentinov and Tasco Ermenkov to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on the policy of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to prevent the danger of water regime in certain settlements and the need to invest in the infrastructure of the VK sector in order to improve the quality of the service offered to consumers and the financial instruments provided for this. The material is sent to the MPs at their e-mail addresses and is available at the Library of the National Assembly. The National Assembly has received an opinion of the Board on the Convergence Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020 - 2023. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material is provided to all Standing Committees and is available in the Library of the National Assembly. Colleagues, we'll start with point one: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ESTABLISH A TEMPORARY COMMISSION FOR CONTROL OF THE EXPENDITURE OF PUBLIC vehicles RELATED TO THE TRANSFER OF THE CONSEQUENCE FROM THE DISTRIBUTION OF COVID-19. Importers suppose Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 8 May 2020. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u4	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We have submitted a draft decision establishing a Temporary Commission for the control of public spending related to overcoming the consequences of the spread of COVID-19. The emergency situation and the emergency epidemic situation also impose exceptional costs, as the consequences of the crisis have affected the development of the economy, people's incomes, led to a restriction on the flow of goods, so it is quite logical to take measures to compensate and support both small and medium-sized businesses and those people who suffered from the pandemic. But emergency and emergency costs do not mean out of control. For many years we have seen that the governments of GERB, not only the latter, spend the money of the Bulgarian taxpayers opaque, with subjective decisions and sometimes with party biases. We have repeatedly signalled that outside the budget, by decree of the Council of Ministers, especially at the end of the years, at the end of each year, between a billion and a half billion from the Council of Ministers without sanctioning the National Assembly and without updating the budget. We have repeatedly witnessed the sole decisions of Prime Minister Borisov, who, traveling with the SUV around the country, promises and distributes millions in his own discretion, without assessing the effect of this, most often for party purposes or election. The Court of Auditors and the Constitutional Court have been alerted by us and have carried out checks on these occasions, but now, in this situation, which requires that the most Bulgarians who have suffered from the crisis be helped when new loans are expected to be withdrawn and spent on the consequences of the crisis, it is twice as necessary to have control and transparency over these spendings. The most important thing is for money to help people, not for the government to survive until the end of the term. These are our motives to offer you in Parliament, in the parliamentary republic, to set up a Temporary Commission with the participation of representatives from all parliamentary groups to ensure the necessary publicity, to check the compliance of the incurred expenditure with the criteria set out in advance, to summarize and make an analysis of their effectiveness and to regularly inform both the Bulgarian Parliament and the Bulgarian society where the money of the Bulgarian citizens goes, if they come to them, if they help them in this difficult situation, and the business, of course, to revive the economy. We propose that the Commission be drawn up on a parietal principle in order to ensure maximum objectivity I read the draft decision: Project! DECISION on the establishment of a Temporary Commission for the Control of the Expenditure of Public Funds relating to the Resolution of the Effects of the Distribution of COVID-19 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 and 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED I. Establishment of a Temporary Commission for the Control of the Expenditure of Public Funds relating to the Resolution of the Consequences of the Distribution of COVID-19. II. The Temporary Commission shall: 1. Asks and publishes information on all expenditures of public funds, including those provided through funds or other financial instruments of the European Union relating to overcoming the consequences of the spread of COVID 19. 2. Checks the compliance of individual costs with the conditions and criteria established for individual anti-crisis measures. 3. It shall draw up a report with a summary of the costs incurred and an analysis of their effectiveness. III. The Commission shall consist of 10 members of each parliamentary group, including the Chair and the Vice-President. IV. Selects the Commission's leadership and composition as follows: President, Vice-President, Members. V. The Commission shall be set up for the duration of the exceptional measures. Honourable Members, we propose that the President of the Commission be a Member of the opposition with two arguments: firstly, this is a traditional and working European practice in many Member States of the European Union and, secondly, greater transparency and objectivity can be guaranteed when the President of the Commission is a representative of opposition power. Many times we have talked that it is very convenient for the government to check the government, to check themselves. This will not lead to the result we are aiming at: transparency, efficiency and access of the whole society to information about where their money is going and how it affects overcoming the effects of the crisis. So I formally make this proposal now to be a representative of the opposition. If you support our proposal for a committee, we will also make the personal proposal for a chairman on behalf of the group of the BSP for Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u5	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Simeonov, come in. Then Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u6	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I believe that our group will unanimously support the establishment of such a committee. Let there be publicity, let there be transparency, let there be, God willing, and trust in society in the rule of the state. However, personally, I hope my fellow Members will also support me, we do not agree very much with your proposal that the chairman of the committee be from the opposition, and that it be from the BSP. By what logic?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u7	The biggest party!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u8	You have argued that in such cases, the opposition should head a committee to check the ruling parties, but I do not know whether this European practice can be applied to our opposition, the Bulgarian one? If I can make a general assessment, I do not see anything European in the behaviour of our opposition, which is basically quite petty, I would say superficial and unconstructive. This is my opinion of our opposition in the Bulgarian National Assembly. Basically we have been going through three years of scandal in scandal and this is the model of opposition thinking and behavior of the management, specifically of BSP. In other words, I believe that if the President is from the BSP, then this committee will be used for purely political purposes, and in this superficial and nagging way in which you understand the opposition in the country, the opposition's behaviour. So what this President will have is a little more accessible access to the media. That's what you really want. This President will most likely reflect your opinion rather than the objective opinion of the collective body or suggest, because very often, both intonation and innuendo may suggest a certain position and make it look like a position of the entire committee. I think the President should be the first among equals. All Commissioners will have the right to an opinion, and when it differs from the opinion of the collective, of the other Commissioners, it may also express a particular opinion, so that you will have your tribune. But for the sake of the objectivity of the work of this committee, I think it is better not to be a representative of the BSP. So this I will recommend to all other Members of the National Assembly and especially to the influential colleagues of GERB. Do not succumb to the influence of BSP! Let's choose someone objectively thinking and acting MP and this committee, for God's sake, to do some work. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. - What's the line? Mr. Zablyanov, Mr. Kutev and... Okay, Mr. Zarkov's giving up.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u10	Madam President, Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Simeonov, it is not surprising that you want the Commission to be headed by a representative of the ruling coalition.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u11	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u12	Okay, not to be headed by a representative of the Bulgarian Socialist Party. There's nothing wrong with that. But I will focus on some of your arguments. "Is the Bulgarian opposition, as you said, European or something else? As European governance is, as is the European opposition, as are the European institutions and as we all feel in one way or another. Regarding the style of behavior and what you think is in some way a characteristic of the Bulgarian opposition some, so to call it, a tendency to scandalism, to senseless destructiveism, to search for a calf under the ox, said in another language. Well, let's try to see if the Bulgarian Socialist Party can be constructive opposition in this case, because we will either end this behavior with each other, or somehow we will sink and we will not be able to broadcast any collective body in the future. With this way of reasoning, we cannot broadcast a true collective body of parliament. Let us be given the opportunity to see if in a situation where the whole Bulgarian society thinks there are moods in the direction of collectiveism, in the good sense of the word...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u13	The weather, Mr. Jablyanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u14	...and the general behaviour of the Bulgarian Parliament to give a signal in this direction. Moreover, I am convinced that there is no reason for the ruling majority to be concerned about the malicious actions of a parliamentary committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u15	Thank you. Mr. Kutev, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u16	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Simeonov, I think that the issue that you raised for the leadership, for the President of the Commission, is key, and that is why I am making your reply. I'm putting aside the definitions of the opposition you made quite personally. Frankly, I think of them as weak taste and I don't intend to discuss them. It is not that we cannot make more vulgar definitions of the government than you of the opposition, but I do not believe that this is what should happen in the National Assembly. Otherwise, the idea that someone should be chairman of a committee in order to have access to the media is unique and is not subject to comment from the point of view of parliamentaryism. It shows a severe misunderstanding of how the processes are going in a parliament or a reluctance to understand, or a clean correction of factology with the typical vulgarity that you are capable of whenever you want. A committee president is not going to get you into the media and what the chair of a temporary committee is doing. I've been involved in a lot of these committees, depending on how the committee will work, because he signs all the demands. Whatever the committee is doing in it, of course, the majority is a majority, it will decide what it wants, but everything is done by the President and therefore good parliamentary practice makes sure that the chair of the committee is from the opposition. We've seen a lot. We had an argument recently with Mr. Bikov, who was the chairman of one of the committees that had recently completed work, and I said again and again that a committee, which is not governed by the opposition, but by the government, could not get the results. Mr. Bikov may remember that in the end he never called the Attorney General to say what was really going on in his committee. Why didn't you call him? Actually, I get it, but I don't want to say it. The same thing is going to happen here, which means you're trying to sweep it all down. You'll probably sweep it anyway. The problem with this whole thing is parliamentaryism, which is why I got up to talk. Because trust in the Bulgarian Parliament, in a country with parliamentary rule, i.e. as the supreme authority of government, will be great only when we prove that we are the authority that really governs and that we do not behave as subordinates, not to say a heavier word to the executive. That's the bad thing about parliamentaryism. And believe me, you too...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u17	Mr. Kutev, get it over with!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u18	All right, I'm done, Madam President. The management will also benefit from this. It's about winning from good parliamentary practice. The other is self-destruction. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u19	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Third line? I can't see. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll start from the back. On Mr. Kutev's line, I don't think there were any vulgar accusations in my speech. Vulgar accusations! I don't know, I have a feeling that some personal attitude is expressing to me, and not for the first time. I wonder why! I respect you, and I appreciate your expertise, even in some other conditions, I would suggest that you be the chairman of this committee. There's nothing wrong with that! But you specifically had to back up your allegations of vulgar accusations one time you said, then you said typical vulgarity, which is some kind of personal attack. You could have made a remark. Where did you see this typical vulgarity? I've expressed my opinion, I've used a lot of decent words, I don't know, but your right. I want to tell you that by blaming us for trying to sweep something away, you are also carrying out an suggestion that may be manipulating listeners and colleagues. Personally, I have been the chairman of a very heavy committee, and I think we have done a very responsible job, and ask them if there I have personally tried to sweep something and whether I am a supporter of sweeping the facts in any direction. On the contrary, Mr. Ermenkov can, for example, confirm that the report was submitted to the prosecution and gave several more signals in the process of the work of this committee, so you have no grounds for such reproach and that is not the case. In this case, I would say wrong thinking is, to put it mildly, that in the Commission, everything is decided by the President. No, you're confusing a parliamentary committee with your party. You're wrong! On the statement of Mr. Zablyanov, whom I respect very much, this time, at this call, you will hardly find approval, response from us, since we are working together for three years and we already have an idea how and how the Bulgarian Socialist Party structured its opposition behaviour. In other words, to put it mildly, we do not have much confidence, Mr. Zablyanov, and I would especially prefer that with such a responsible committee we do not experiment and put your representative who will be led, as Mr. Kutev said, according to the model: everything is done by the Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. Personal explanation please, Mr. Bikov. Mr. Ermenkov will also want a personal explanation. Okay, I'll give it to you, Mr. Ermenkov, take it easy.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u22	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kutev, we had this debate during the presentation of the Report. I'll make a few specifics. The first is that being an opposition is not a vice, but it is not a virtue. To what extent a president of a temporary committee is from the opposition or from the government, I do not think it is of that importance. The more important question is whether the committee is parietal or proportionate. Our Commission for BNR was a pariah, we all had two representatives there, including your party. This committee came up with a report in which any colleague who was a member of it could make amendments. There were several technical amendments, they were all accepted, including by colleagues from DPS and BSP. Prosecutor General Sotir Tsatsarov was called to the Commission meeting first. This was the first person who came to this committee to be heard on my initiative. The new Prosecutor General Ivan Geshev had a discussion in the Commission itself, I asked him if he had anything new to say, he replied that he would not say anything new. I shared it with my colleagues and still asked them: colleagues, should we invite Prosecutor General Ivan Gheshev? We have decided unanimously not to invite him, so that you transfer to the President in this case, here to make a reference to the current committee... Ivan Geshev could have easily been called to my humble presidency. The point is, he himself said he had nothing more to say than what Mr. Tsatsarov said.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u23	Get it over with, Mr. Bikov!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u24	That's why they'll probably continue the speculation. The bad news is that perhaps your attitude towards this new committee, which will be set up, is similar to the previous one, as to the possibility of creating a fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u25	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Mr. Ermenkov, come in for a personal explanation. After that, Mr. Nenkov will speak. Then Mr. Mareshki made a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In connection with the mention of my name in the participation of a committee which was related to the development of energy and, above all, renewable energy sources, I would just like to remind you of the results of this committee that this is the only committee with a report signed with a particular opinion by all Commissioners, including the President. And it seems to me that the example of the fruitful work of a committee with results was not the most appropriate one that could have been given at the moment. I am obliged to give this clarification and to remind once again about the insult that we are not constructive, because I personally accepted it as an insult to me, to remind how many times we have been the initiators of decisions and actions in this Parliament, which have been met unanimously and have been in favor both of the national and energy security of Bulgaria. We from BSP, not you from the Patriots, not anyone else, but we were offering this thing and you agreed because you knew we were right. So accusing us of non-constructiveism, that we are only about scandals, is an absolute way to escape from a correct decision. The chairman of this committee to be from the opposition. Because, among other things, this will also give a nuance of trust in the Commission's work, of spending, and it will not once again be accepted by the public, the officials have appointed one chairman and swept everything so that things can go as they supposedly go. I say this not that it will be, but I tell you how it can be perceived by society if the President is not of the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u27	Thank you. Mr. Nenkov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u28	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, on behalf of the GERB parliamentary group, I would like to express our opinion, and it is that we will strongly support the establishment of such a temporary committee. We really hope that it will prove with the facts that it will establish and make public that every lev to the Bulgarian taxpayer has been spent in a reasonable way, as regards the situation in which we are in the last more than two months. We think, of course, that it is good for the government not to have a leading position, namely not to have the chair. We therefore believe that it should be given, as proposed, to an opposition party. But we also believe that this should not be the BSP group, not because of anything else, not because we have no respect for the colleague you will be proposing as chairman, but because we believe that it is actually another purpose for the establishment of this committee, and for data that are public. Because at the moment, everyone who is willing can check every single penny of the state budget. We suspect that the creation of such a temporary committee rather wants to create the feeling that there is something hidden, that there is almost some opaqueness in the way money is spent in the crisis situation over the last two months. And that is precisely why, in order to prove that this is not true and that this suggestion is actually aimed at some destabilization, because of this, colleagues from GERB and our parliamentary group will support the decision. I really hope that the conversation between the negotiators will not be repeated in a few months and that this committee is not simply used as a tribune by some people to create unnecessary tensions. I don't think that's necessary right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Mr. Mareshki, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u30	Madam President, honourable Members! Madam President, first of all, I would like to take this opportunity to make you a point in the manner of conducting it that I am currently seeing a great many people in the National Assembly, although concentrated in one direction, who do not comply with the measures that we ourselves have voted here in Parliament and do not use masks. In the end...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u31	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Please put on your masks.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u32	Only if I can finish. After all, the other MPs are not guinea pigs. And here, even from the stands, when Mrs. Nino spoke, she coughed. I hope that she just choked, and wish her a long life, a long life and health, long years. But we still have to follow the measures, because no one can predict what can happen in the end. [[Radio, noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Otherwise, honourable Members, it is not the time for weak theatre performances, it is not the time for weak populism, it is not the time for small politics. It is time to unite all the sane people to deal with the economic consequences of the medical problem, namely the infection coronavirus. We will therefore support the establishment of such a committee, and we will also support the proposal, if accepted by the majority, that it be headed by one of the opposition parties. I say and rightly said the words, because you know that we are somehow, albeit difficult, for three years we have been trying to distinguish ourselves from other positions. [[Noise and lines.]] Because you know that there are such simple screaming, nothing doing and nothing suggesting, and there are those that are constructive. As in this case, we will support every decision, no matter which side of the House comes from, even though it is not perfect. Yes, we want all our decisions to be perfect, but even if it is not perfect, if it is good, we will support it. And naturally, we will oppose any one that we believe leads to the impoverishment of the Bulgarian people and the robbing of the Bulgarian business. I therefore take this opportunity to ask our respected MPs for a little more humility in this situation, for a little more empathy and to take a decision for empathy to the Bulgarian people and to the Bulgarian business and as long as there is one company, and we now know that there are more businesses that are not open, while there is also a Bulgarian citizen without income, and if there are closed companies, there are also those that are dumped literally without any income on the street, the MPs to give up payment, remuneration for their activities and the political parties that are entitled to this, to give up the subsidies that they are currently receiving, and to be donated specifically for the medics, police and other people who remain in the shadow, on the first line most of all, and if they remain for every Bulgarian citizen who is currently unable to receive income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u33	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. - What's the line? You have the floor for a line, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Mareshki, you regularly give up subsidies, salaries in the name of the most unjust poor citizens of Bulgaria. I am interested when you come out of this room and sit in your luxurious limo with massage, cooling the seats and extras that cost as much as the monthly income of a poor Bulgarian family, are you ready to give up this luxury?! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u35	Thank you. Is there a second line? Mr. Mareshki, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As a matter of fact, I didn't expect such a fall, but I can't help but take advantage of the inexcusableness of such a statement. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The more wealthy people, God willing all Bulgarians to be wealthy, not the ones you left them under the poverty line with your governments, the people received a three-dollar pension. And I remember him, because then I'd line up at the Red Cross for relief to feed my first child. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And thanks to that... [[Noise.]] I'm proud. I'm proud to have created such a business. You can go to see now, your closest is in Lyulin, but also in the nearby pharmacies here at the Monument Levski I am proud to have created such a business that helps people survive, survive during your vicious and thieving governments. Because when the dollar was 3 leva, people came to the pharmacies and prayed to get at least 5 tablets so no one would die. [[Noise and lines.]] That's what you do. And the fact that I have succeeded, thanks to my social policy, to build a business that is good for people and brings me profits does not make me ashamed. I will proudly give up my salary as a MP, the entire parliamentary group will do so and we will give up subsidies if it is taken as a decision. We propose it and we will vote for it. I want to see your decision. Yes, we will vote for the refusal of funds and for the refusal of remuneration, while there is a Bulgarian citizen who is suffering at the moment, thanks to your governments, not only the coronavirus, thanks to what you have done in the years. Because if, in the years when you were in charge, you had made the pensions at the moment 500 leva, no MP here would have voted to reduce them to 250. And now people would have lived much better. Except, unfortunately, that's not true. So I'm really going to ask you for a little more humility, empathy. I'm ready to give up. Here, I declare it one more time. All my colleagues are willing to give up. I hope you'll follow us into this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. The way you're leading it? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky. Then there's Mr. Atanasov for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Madam President, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct and it is directed towards you as the leading meeting. This is not the first time Mr. Mareshki has taken the liberty of advertising his own business, his own companies. We all know the price of one minute of parliamentary time and if each of us of this tribune speaks in the name of the Bulgarian citizens, in the name of someone's public interest to be the Bulgarian citizens more relaxed and to live more dignifiedly in their country, Mr. Mareshki uses this high tribune, which is monitored by all media, by all Bulgarian citizens, to advertise his own business. When calling on this tribune to give up subsidies, salaries, wages, extras and whatever else it offers, let's first pay for the advertisement it makes out of this tribune. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria (BGSP for Bulgaria))]] , of his companies, pharmacies, gas stations, weekly declarations, speeches, replicas, in duplicates. One minute parliamentary time, colleagues, costs about 20-30 thousand leva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u39	I understand your remark.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u40	Mr. Mareshki, please come to the National Assembly's cash register to pay for the ad broadcast by the Bulgarian National Assembly. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. I expect you to sign the rules exactly how to do that. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! There was a reasonable proposal from BSP undoubtedly, which, you can see, the entire parliamentary room accepts it. The proposal is definitely reasonable. When it comes to spending public funds, you are very good at offering it to two people from a parliamentary group. Great! But the President being from BSP, you understand that, as your colleague Mr. Zablyanov said, which I also respect very much, I do not think it will be well received by the public. One million voters have you, just over a million have GERB. Therefore, in my opinion, this committee should not be headed either by GERB or BSP. My personal proposal, without involving my parliamentary group, I think it should be the Parliamentary Group of Volja. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u43	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u44	If you want to replicate me, you're right in a few words. As you can see, this group has criticised every other parliamentary group with us, has dealt with you, with colleagues from GERB has dealt with. I don't think my offer is that bad. And another thing that I notice in Parliament is a good proposal that we all agree that there should be such a committee in the end: why are you beating up Negroes? He's gone off his meds, who's gonna give up their paychecks, and all we're wasting is parliamentary time, categorically. So, without, I repeat, to engage my parliamentary group, it is most reasonable that such a chairman of this committee is from WALK, especially that in the end these are 10 people. And it was no accident that our chairman said, "It is the first between equals "primus inter pares. " First between equals! So in this regard, I think we can come to a consensus. There are several MPs in the Vola who give me at least a happy impression, so we can safely elect the Chairman of the Vola. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. The line, Mr. Svilensky. Then Mr. Pawnov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Atanasov, you well said that the proposal of the parliamentary group is good, it is correct to have two people from a parliamentary group, a chairman, broadcast by the opposition, and then immediately contradict each other. You're proposing a chairman from a co-governing party. Isn't it clear to all of us that the Volksh Parliamentary Group is co-managing or at least you, as part of the ruling coalition, don't you feel it?! How many times have they been empathetic with obvious political signs that they are a ruling party, supporting a budget, supporting a vote of no confidence? How many times does it have to happen to make sure?! Just ask yourself which opposition parties in parliament are and then let's think about which of them should be the chairman of this committee. But the colleagues of the Vol are co-managing, you just haven't given them a ministerial post yet. So I agree with you that the proposal is good that it should be an opposition party. Let's find in this parliament who is the opposition party.. the one who does not support the government, the one who is a corrective of the government. Otherwise, I agree with your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. Second line, Mr. Pawnov, third line, Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u48	Mr. Atanasov, my line to you is that there are several types of oppositions. WALK can be said to be a ruling opposition. Whenever there are no-confidence votes, when there are key votes, they are always with the government, so the ruling opposition cannot broadcast a chairman because it is as if he is from GERB in all his actions. And I have to tell you something in person: in your speech you see a hidden racism. Because if you're in the United States and you tell them they beat up the niggers, they'll sanction you. You should say African-Americans. Please be correct to the other races! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u49	Thank you, Mr. Pawnov. Third line, Mr. Hristov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Atanasov, thank you for giving such an appreciation to the Volya from this high tribune. She's not undeserved. However, I ask you, in the backdrop of which I suppose you will take advantage, to ask the colleagues of the BSP when they have been given the honor of being the chairman of their political party, what results have these committees achieved? Do either of you remember the result of the Commission, which was chaired in connection with CEZ and Ginka Varbakova?! If one of you says what this committee has achieved, I am ready to support the President of the BSP for the forthcoming committee, which we are about to vote on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Mr. Atanasov, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm really wondering now where to make my own coat! Come on, I'll start with Mr. Pawnov saying he's my friend. Well, Mr. Pawnov, by that logic, the greatest American writers must be racist. Starting with Salinger, starting with John Steinbeck, starting with Theodore Dryzer and so on and so forth. [[Reply from the National Representative Alexander Pawnov.]] Yes, in this case, the modern conditions are true. African-Americans call them, that's right, otherwise in America you'll be seriously convicted and fined, you might even go to jail. You're right about that! The second thing I'm going to tell you: I won't do an analysis of the will. It is, after all, another political force. It's not right and it's not right! But I'll give you just a few examples of what the basic principle of being in the department is. It's participation in executive power. Tell me one representative of Volya in the executive power is he a minister, is he a governor, a senior official? You say they were hidden opposition. Well, I'll tell you something: the biggest cost of this year is the notorious airplanes. I want to tell you that you know very well their position on our aviation. By the way, then, as far as I know, you supported the planes, too. [[DPS lines.]] Didn't you support them?! Okay. So be it! But this party was solid for the two billion levs for the planes. In no case, once again, I would not like to make so much advertising to this party and to do the proper characteristics of its governance. So they have very often voted with you, and not only with GERB. They also criticized the main party GERB. Not to mention how much they criticized us. So a little calmer with the relationship to the will and most of all such... I am not a fan of such sharp, sharp political attacks, because there is no stupid person in this parliament. Each of you is on a pretty high level and you can always find an answer when one of us rudely attacks another colleague. The other colleague can always find at least three answers to answer him. So, colleagues, I think that's my answer. I can talk a lot more, but I'm done with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u53	And time is over, Mr. Atanasov. Thank you. Mr. Zarkov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today's debate is practically an extension of our work from that day. There was one thing that happened during the state of emergency, I don't know if it was because of your will that we didn't get together so often, but for a little while they had been silenced those personal attacks and reduced important issues. Unfortunately, with the beginning of our normal work, we returned to them, and the question does not deserve it. He, I think, was exposed fairly correctly and objectively. That is why I am beginning with gratitude, first of all, that we have an understanding in our proposal for such a temporary committee. And this understanding is normal both by the government and by the government! Why? Because BSP's proposal to set up such a temporary committee to monitor how funds related to overcoming the consequences of the coronavirus and this epidemic are being spent responds to a broad public demand for more transparency, publicity and control over those billions that are constantly being talked about. This request for publicity and transparency cannot be provided only with publications on individual sites of individual ministries or on Facebook pages. Furthermore, the establishment of such a committee will also bring the National Assembly as part of all the institutions that take responsibility for the spending of these funds. Responsibility, which, bearing in mind that these are funds spent outside the normal budgetary procedure, cannot be suffered unilaterally by either party or by any minister or by the government itself. Not just that. It would have and would have a preventive effect, even if it had such small companies, large companies or medium-sized companies, which have made plans to take advantage of the uncertainties in this case. It will have a preventative effect on administration and administrators who can be tempted by handing out these funds to earn something for them. Finally, the final report of this committee will provide a political framework for a difficult conversation that will be the one for political interpretations, whether the measures have been effective or not. In other words, this is all for the benefit of different political parties, of different institutions of society. Unfortunately, however, the debate has degenerated into any president, with criticism of a perfectly reasonable and understandable proposal that this should be an opposition person. Because none of these Commission objectives of publicity, responsibility, prevention and political interpretation will be ensured if the chairman of this committee is managing or accompanying in any way, because he will not have that initial trust. Not that our trust is much higher than that of you, it's just normal logic shows that the opposition has no interest in hiding any information, nor to silence any fact, nor to spare itself any hearing. Therefore, in many national meetings and parliaments in Europe under the Rules of Procedure, the Committee for the Control of Budget Funds is always given to the opposition, but not to any opposition, ladies and gentlemen, not to the raised opposition, not to the small opposition, not to the middle opposition, not to the breakaways, but to the main opposition force, which is constructed and a strong element in the balances of the authorities. And that in this parliament, do you want or do you not want, is BSP! [[Reply from "BSP" for Bulgaria "Bravo": "Bravo!"]] Three things this committee has to do. All three things are to ensure publicity, to check whether money is distributed according to the pre-established norms and finally to assess whether they have reached those who really need it, and not to concentrate again in someone's hands, namely publicity, legality and appropriateness in order to have an initial start of trust. As you accept the main part of our proposal, you must accept both the people and the positions we offer. So this committee will have a clear enough start and, I'm sure, will end with useful action for all of us. We do not need us or you, scandals about how this money has been spent. We have an absolute responsibility to ensure that Bulgarian citizens ensure that all these efforts that our state and they themselves make to raise funds will go to those who need and will not sink, as has often happened, on the channels of our parallel state. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u55	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. The line has Mr. Atanasov. Then Mr. Hristov says the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues! Mr. Zarkov, you're an extremely good lawyer, but I'll tell you something else. Your statement wasn't politically supported. I'll tell you what, not that I mind. When a party earns a million votes, it is about respect as is yours, but you and GERB are antagonistic parties, understand it. Think about it, when colleagues from GERB return to their seats in just one day and meet with their constituents on the ground, the first question that the voters will ask them, I tell you from personal experience, the first question that their voters will ask them: how could you allow the chairman of this committee to be from the BSP? Don't you understand this thing? [[Noise and lines.]] Don't you get it? The same will be if a representative of GERB becomes chairman of this committee, the same will be, only on your part. For this reason Bulgaria is slightly different from the Western world. The Western world to get here has gone through 300 years. Democracy is hard to build!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u57	Get it over with, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u58	I'm done saying one thing, you can't have a president of one of the parties who's antagonistic with another and the forces are almost leveled. Come on, now GERB will say it's not true, but you have nearly a million voters! So, in this regard, please accept one, how can I say, a party that puts this committee on a professional level and not on a purely political level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u59	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Mr. Christov, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Zarkov, you are calling on the MPs to support an elevated candidacy for president, according to your words, from the real opposition, as you claim to be your political party. I would like to ask: is it precisely this opposition which, a few years ago, Mr. Mareshki, came out on the stand and announced before one vote how the members of the SAC would be distributed; is it this particular opposition that claimed to be against the spending on airplanes and after one breakfast with the US Ambassador turned 180 degrees or that opposition that suddenly reached consensus with the government about the existence of a subsidy that we of the VOLA offered not to have such a subsidy? If you are talking about this opposition, Mr. Zarkov, I think we should give the chairmanship to our colleagues from GERB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u61	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Third line? I can't see. Mr. Zarkov, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear replicators, thank you for your attitude. Mr. Atanasov, yes, I am recently in politics, and I am in politics because people who have been in politics for a long time have made it possible for you to say here that Bulgaria is different from the Western and civilized world. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And all your verbal equilibristikas won't give me up this time! What were we like? We have been the opposite of GERB. Well, you're here in Parliament because you campaigned against them, and then you gathered with them to rule together. We're antagonistic all the time, and you're in a campaign. Well, this doesn't really look like the Western world! Would you ask them GERB: how could you allow it to be from BSP? If I were them and I am sure that they could answer: because we are sure that there is nothing wrong with what we do, and because it is normal and the opposition to participate in this process, they criticize us most, let them watch what we do, we are calm! And their constituents will no doubt understand such logic. With regard to Mr. Plamen Hristov, with all due respect, you repeat the same thing, but even abbreviations can't learn in three and a half years. It wasn't about you. It was about the SJC. And we're talking about the opposition, which is the only one who has offered more candidates than there was a chance under the law to be elected. Another question is what happened in the vote itself and here, it seems to me that you know much better than I do what happened! I am talking about the opposition that has tabled four or five votes of distrust and which has so far brought down this cabinet if you of each of them have not voted against. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u63	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u64	It's the way it's supposed to be. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Zarkov, with that statement... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Presiding Tsveta Karyancheva: To me, Mr. Atanasov. The note to me is because it's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u65	Madam President, do not allow such speeches. [[Noise and lines.]] It was seen that Mr. Zarkov, as correct as I was with him, made a very aggressive statement on my question, and I'll tell you something, Mr. Zarkov!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u66	To Mrs. Karayancheva!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u67	Really, ma'am... [[Noise and lines.]] Okay, I'm gonna say something to Madame Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u68	Yeah, tell me about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u69	Really... Really, Mr. Zarkov doesn't know politics yet. [[Noise and lines.]] Because... Because local elections, Madam President, have nothing to do with national politics! When a party runs a bad city, then it can face it, although at the moment in parliament its ally... [[Noise and lines.]] When a party, I repeat, does not run a city well, then you may, even though you are its ally, face it. And as you can see, the results were quite interesting, at least in my hometown!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u70	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. I get the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u71	... Despite GERB's union with all other parties, including Mr. Gergov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u72	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. I understand your remark. You're welcome, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u73	Thank you. Dear Madam President, there are actually two comments to you in the manner of conduct. Firstly, you allow, in the course of the procedure, your colleague Atanasov to present his vision and understanding of policy. Perhaps that there are no eternal principles, there are eternal interests, we understand that. My other procedure in the manner of conduct is that you here once again allow this tribune to tell lies, honest lies. You know very well because you are the President of the National Assembly I am talking about this speculation that is constantly continuing here. A lie repeated a hundred times is trying to become the truth that the Bulgarian Socialist Party, our parliamentary group, has not voted for the so-called deal for airplanes. Let us make it clear there are shorthands, there are voting protocols, make a remark to Mr. Hristov when trying to make such suggestions, and not only he, but also the other MPs, because this is absolute manipulation and should be sanctioned by you, because you best know as President of the National Assembly which group on which issue she voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u74	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Mrs. Daritkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u75	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Please call on all MPs in this Chamber to use personal protective equipment for masks, because this is the requirement laid down in the order and which concerns closed public premises. I think that when you plead to follow the rules, it seems illogical and incorrect not to wear a mask. This is observed by all Bulgarian citizens. At the same time, they are fined in the public transport for masking the Bulgarians, which should teach citizens that the epidemic situation is not over, that the virus is still among us and we ourselves should set an example of how we should protect ourselves and how we should protect others. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u76	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. It's a perfectly reasonable remark. I have repeatedly called on the MPs to put on their masks. I hope you're responsible enough, colleagues! Let's follow the rules! Let's all put on our masks, or next time I'll start putting out names, because I see you in the room who are not wearing masks. I call on you once again: put on your masks so we can follow the rules! Mr. Chenchev had a statement. [[Noise and lines.]] Oh, you want disinfecting? Okay. Please invite the National Assembly official to carry out the disinfection. We have to wait, because Mr. Chenchev is adamant, he has to disinfect the stands. Now we'll get you a safe place to work. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u77	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I listened carefully to the discussion, the debate from its beginning until now. I was impressed by a few things, puzzled by them. I'll share them with you now. I am surprised at the ease of perceptions and claims by the government. First of all, that, you see, the opposition was guilty of three years of scandal. If that's what you're thinking, no committees will help you or your chairmen save you from leaving. The second thing that impressed me very strongly is that a representative and former chairman of such a temporary committee said that these were, you see, fairs. If they're fairs, then you two-faced say it's a very good idea for this committee. How can it be a fair? It's a good idea. And what did you see unpleasant about the opposition having the presidential role? You have been set an example with the European institutions, and now, if you do not know, there will be committees in the European Parliament to spend the funds that will be allocated to countries to combat the coronavirus. Your perceptions, reasoning and allegations, your motives here today have absolutely fallen. They're untenable. It can't be a good idea, and then why is the chairman so important to you in all your arguments that you said? If you're so honest, if you're so responsible, when you're doing your job so well, why don't you leave the opposition chairman? What's he gonna catch? I have to tell you something I saw, because I was a member of a committee like that. Everyone in this room, all of you know that there's something left unspoken about the Temporary Commission for Stopping the Signal in the National Radio. You all know that, and you all know that we had to be given some mobile data and we weren't given any. So, ladies and gentlemen, what did this committee do with a chairman of the department? Answer these questions!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u78	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Colleagues, I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. Please invite the Members of the National Assembly to enter the Chamber. I will first read the first part of the proposal: Project! DECISION on the establishment of a Temporary Commission for the Control of the Expenditure of Public Funds relating to the Prevention of Consequences from the distribution of Kovid-19 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 and 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED I. Establishment of a Temporary Commission for the Control of the Expenditure of Public Funds relating to the Prevention of the Consequences of the Distribution of Kovid-19. II. The Temporary Commission shall: 1. Asks and publishes information on all expenditures of public funds, including those provided through funds or other financial instruments of the European Union, related to overcoming the consequences of the spread of Kovid 19. 2. Checks the compliance of individual costs with the conditions and criteria established for individual anti-crisis measures. 3. Prepares a report with summary data on the costs incurred and analysis of their effectiveness. Please vote on this first part. They voted 199 MPs: for 199, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. We are now voting on the proposal: the... consists of 10 members of each parliamentary group, including President and Vice-President. Vote 203 MPs: for 202, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, I look forward to your proposals for Commissioners. Mr. Tzipov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u79	Thank you, Madam President. On behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB, we propose as members of the Commission Maria Ilieva and Eugenia Angelova. I would like to draw attention, honourable Members, to the Budget Committee, that there is a subcommittee on public sector expenditure, and it is precisely our proposals for the two Members of Parliament that are members of this committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u80	Thank you, Mr. Tzipov. From the BSP parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u81	Thank you, Madam President. On behalf of the BSP Parliamentary Group, we propose Professor Rumen Gechev as President and Commissioner [[crowd cheering and chirping]] And to her member Yavor Bozhankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u82	Thank you, Mr. Popov. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, Mr. Hamid, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of Parliament from the Parliamentary Group of "The Rights and Freedoms Movements" we propose to the Commission the participation of the Members of Parliament Yordan Tsonev and Adlen Shevked. And by fully sharing the arguments that the President should be from the opposition, not because something needs to be swept away, and this is a principle in democracy, I propose Mr. Yordan Tsonev as President of the Commission, but Mrs. Adlen Shevked as a member.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u84	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Mr. Kasabov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u85	Madam President, honourable Members! We offer Dr. Kalin Popovski and Boris Yachev as members from the parliamentary group of the United patriots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u86	Thank you, Mr. Kasabov. And from the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Rodolivtsi.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u87	Madam President, honourable Members! To great surprise, it seems that to everyone from the parliamentary group of Volya we offer only for members Mr. Plamen Hristov and Mrs. Dora Hristova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Georgieva. Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u89	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! We see complete disregard for the so-called independent MPs, according to the Rules of Procedure, independent. It's about eight people, six from the party, Ataka and two other independents. Dear colleagues, no one is asking the question here there were epic battles and the President... Because for an hour, an hour and a half, we dealt with it as if it was very important whether it was the opposition or the government. But here the will of no small part is ignored, I would say, of the people's representation. That's why I'm taking the floor. I keep quiet in this room, no one made a remark, and if we kept quiet, it was nothing else, but to see what parliamentaryism meant. We have seen what this parliamentaryism is like in this National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. If you had any comments, you could have taken part before the second vote on the number of Commissioners. Colleagues, I am voting on the proposals for Commissioners. Ten members had a proposal of two from each parliamentary group. Now we vote on the members, then we vote on the board. Vote 202 MPs: for 202, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we have two proposals for a chairman. We do not have a proposal for a Vice-President, so since we are announcing the President, I expect proposals for a Vice-President. Firstly, I vote on the proposal that the President of the Commission be Mr. Rumen Gechev from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria. They voted 203 MPs: for 73, against 101, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the Parliamentary Group on the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. [[Laughter and raging]] Mr. Yordan Tsonev to be chairman of the Temporary Committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u91	Make me a uniform. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u92	We'll order one of Mr. Tsonev's uniforms. It's been a lot of generals in the last two months and a man gets confused. [[Noise and excitement.]] 195 MPs voted: 107 against 36, abstention 52. From the so-called vote, Mr. Tsonev is Chairman of the Temporary Commission. Colleagues, proposals for a vice-president? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u93	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u94	Colleagues, I'm re-voting at Mr. Popov's suggestion. They voted 198 MPs: 109, against 33, abstention 56. The motion is accepted. Chairman of the Temporary Commission is Mr. Tsonev. I'm expecting proposals for a vice-president. Colleagues? There won't be a vice-president if there are no proposals. We'll only have a chairman. For the duration of the exceptional measures, the Commission shall establish a framework for the implementation of the emergency measures. I shall put to the vote the duration of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u95	Who's gonna hold the meeting if the chairman doesn't show up?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u96	Make an offer, colleagues. No proposal has been made for Vice-President. In that case, what am I supposed to do?! I can't make an appointment. [[Noise and lines.]] Vote 185 MPs: 170 against 1, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, I'm voting on the whole draft decision. Vote 155 MPs: for 151, against none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we move to the next item on today's agenda: REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE TEMPORARY ANCETAL COMMISSION FOR THE SEARCH OF ALL DATA, FACTS AND ASSISTANCES IN EUROPEAN AND BULGARIAN MEDIA TROUBLE FOR THE SCANDAL UNDERSTANDING OF BULGARIAN CIVILITY OF CIVILITY AND PROJECT OF THE REPORT DECISION Mr. Tsonev, please give us the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u97	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. President, first of all, I would like to ask you to read a summary of the report, and the entire volume of the report will apply to the stenogram. We also have such a practice when reading the opinions of the committees, so I think we do nothing to violate the Rules of Procedure. ♪ I can't believe on the activities of the Temporary Committee for the Study of All Data, Facts and Circumstances on the occasion of the allegations of the scandalous bribery scheme in the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship by foreign nationals The temporary inquiry committee for the study of all data, facts and circumstances concerning the allegations of the scandalous bribery scheme in the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship by foreign citizens was established by a decision of the National Assembly on 14 December 2018 with a period of three months. The period of validity was extended four times due to the need for additional time to know and study the large volume of information and the need to wait for the result of the working groups established within the executive power. For the period from its establishment until now, the Commission has held eight meetings, two of which have been closed. Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov, Chairman of SANS Mr. Dimitar Georgiev, Minister of Justice Mrs. Tsetska Tsacheva, Deputy Minister of Interior Mr. Krasimir Tsipov, Deputy Minister of Justice Mrs. Desislava Ahladova and the former Director of the Directorate of Bulgarian Citizenship. All invited were heard by the Commission, with the exception of Ms. Katya Mateva, who refused. At its first and second sitting, the Commission adopted Internal Rules on Work................................................................................... The main tasks you set yourself were: 1. Review of the legislation regulating the receipt of Bulgarian citizenship and institutions that have functions in this process. 2. A review of media publications concerning the subject of the activities of the Temporary Committee of inquiry. 3. Request for information from the competent authorities and hearing of officials. Taking into account the fact that at the time of the establishment of the Temporary Committee of inquiry there was a pre-trial proceedings against officials on the same subject, as well as the Report with the recommendations of the European Commission to the Republic of Bulgaria on the procedure for issuing Bulgarian citizenship on the basis of investments, the Commission decided to concentrate its work on the following tasks: 1. Establishment of facts and circumstances in relation to the existence of infringements and corruption practices by bodies and certain officials. To this end, it was decided to invite the Chief Prosecutor Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov, the Deputy Prosecutor General at the time, of course, we are talking about Mr. Ivan Geshev, the Chairman of the National Security Agency Mr. Dimitar Georgiev and other officials and to inform the Commission about the ongoing pre-trial proceedings. 2. Introduction and study of the work of the bodies performing functions of issuing Bulgarian citizenship and hearing of officials from these bodies. Hearing of the Minister of Justice Ms. Tsetska Tsacheva and Deputy Minister of Justice Mrs. Desislava Ahladova. 3. Making and proposing legislative changes. The report further detailed the Commission's work with relevant quotations from the data received from the officials and institutions concerned and all those who were heard, as well as comments from Commissioners. I'll get to the bottom of this. On the basis of the meetings held and the actual material, the following conclusions may be drawn: 1. About the existence of violations and corruption by officials in the process of issuing Bulgarian citizenship. According to the information provided by the Prosecutor General Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov, Deputy Prosecutor Mr. Ivan Geshev, the President of SANS Mr. Dimitar Georgiev has serious data on a corruption scheme in the implementation of procedures for obtaining Bulgarian citizenship from foreign citizens. The pre-trial proceedings has led to charges of management and participation in an organized criminal group, money laundering, bribery and trade with influence of the President, the Secretary General and two others from the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad. 2. Regarding the laws, regulations and activities of the authorities which carry out the process of issuing Bulgarian citizenship to foreign nationals. The acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship in naturalization goes through three stages: 2.1 The first stage is related to the work of the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad. The structure of the Agency creates prerequisites for corruption in the process, namely: the Chairman of the Agency issues the certificate of Bulgarian origin; it determines the type and content of the certificate; it establishes a list of NGOs that certify the Bulgarian origin of the person, etc. The document turnover and the type of documents. All participants in the discussion, meetings and working groups agree that the legal regulation of the certificate of origin should be changed, as this document depends on: obtaining Bulgarian citizenship, permission for permanent residence, permission for long stay, implementation of educational activities. The temporary committee of inquiry proposes that this document be issued by the Advisory Council of the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad. The legal framework of this issue shall be given in art. 15 of the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship. 2.2. The second stage is related to the work of the Citizenship Council of the Ministry of Justice - an inter-agency body entrusted with a huge amount of work. An advisory body that gives opinions on the applications for acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship. Recommendations: to optimize the composition, to shorten the time limits for ruling, to separate the individual procedures from the procedure of investment citizenship from the procedure for granting Bulgarian citizenship of Bulgarian origin and of origin Bulgarian citizenship to remove the interview. The next item is on the functional competence of the Bulgarian Citizenship Directorate, defined in the Rules of Procedure of the Ministry of Justice, to optimize and shorten. There, for a period of only one year from 01.01. to 31.12.2018, 24 376 files were formed and 20 000 interviews with candidates were held. 2.3. The third stage is the stage in which Bulgarian citizenship is given or refused and is related to the work of the President, respectively the Vice President. 3. Passes and recommendations for the issuance of the so-called "Civility of a Member State'. During the work of the Commission and the other working groups in the executive power as well as in the prosecution and the DANS have identified the same deficiencies: 3.1. The investments are formal, most in government securities, and do not contribute to the development of the Bulgarian economy. 3.2. There is no control, accountability and authority to monitor their duration. 3.3. They compromise the process before the European institutions. During the period of the Commission's work, a report of the European Commission on gaps and recommendations to Bulgaria was published. In the report there were analyses and recommendations to several other countries of the European Union.. Portugal, Greece, Cyprus, Spain, Ireland. Some recommend the suspension of the issuance of so-called investment citizenship, but most authorities are of the opinion that it should remain but be strictly regulated, controlled and directed towards real investment in the Bulgarian economy. None of the six countries mentioned in the report ceased investment citizenship, but reformed investment programmes and control. The Commission recommends that Bulgaria should not demand the citizenship, but should regulate and control it strictly in order to create effective guarantees that it is about real investments creating jobs and added value. Further down we will make arguments about this, as well as a clear legal model. Investment immigration programmes worldwide allow third-country nationals to obtain a residence permit and/or citizenship through investment in accordance with legal conditions adopted. At present, more than half of the countries in the world are applying this type of economic instruments. Of these 23 are Member States of the European Union. In the last 10 years, the number of investment programmes in Europe has increased from 3 to 23. The trend we are talking about investment programmes and the so-called immigrant investment programmes is their number to continue to grow. Examples in this regard are Moldova and Montenegro, which launched their investment programmes at the end of 2018 and 2019 respectively. Among the countries implementing similar types of programmes is the Republic of Bulgaria. The possibility of acquiring a right of residence through investment was introduced for the first time in 1998. In this regard, our country shows innovation in launching an enterprising policy for attracting foreign direct investment. Through legal changes in 2009 and 2013, the Bulgarian Investment Programme has been updated in its current form, and currently there are opportunities for acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship on grounds of investments. In the period of their existence, investment immigration programmes in the European Union have repeatedly attracted the attention of Union institutions and have given constructive assessments and guidelines in order to comply with European legislation and protect national interests. Following lengthy debates on the subject in November 2018, a study of Member States' investment programmes was published by the European Parliament. The study covers issues related to relevant national and supranational legal frameworks, investor requirements, practices found and results achieved. In connection with Parliament's study and initiative at the end of January 2019, the European Commission published a Report. The latter mentions the programmes of Bulgaria, Cyprus and Malta as providing opportunities for acquiring not only the right to residence but also citizenship against investment. The report concluded that, in relation to the new economic situation and challenges, the countries operating investment programmes should take additional measures in order to reduce the risks associated with security, money laundering, corruption, circumvention of European Union legislation and taxation. Additional measures are also proposed to ensure a higher level of transparency in the operation of programmes, including more detailed statistics, a mechanism of communication between Member States in relation, in particular, to investor checks. The European Commission shall adopt and establish the sovereign right of each Member State to conduct its own economic policies and incentives for the purpose of attracting foreign direct investment, including through the implementation of its own immigration programmes. In response to this report and the recommendations of the European Commission, Cyprus, Malta, Portugal and Ireland have changed, but have maintained their investment programmes. For this reason, the Temporary Committee of Inquiry proposes Bulgaria to amend the conditions and control of investments for residence and obtaining Bulgarian citizenship, but to preserve them. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This is the summary of the report. It is signed by all colleagues, without a particular opinion. But I'd like to fill in a few things here. The first is that we have set ourselves as the main task of completing the report with legislative changes to summarize the work not only of the Commission, not only of the recommendations of the European Commission in the Report, which is on this subject, but also of summarize what was done by the relevant working groups to the Ministry of Justice and to the other state authorities that created such working groups, there was also one for the Deputy Prime Minister. We have completed this work with a bill which we have submitted and signed most of our fellow Members of this committee. In it we deal with all the issues that were mentioned in the Report. I believe that the work of this committee can be an example of how temporary committees of inquiry should work on certain topics.. not only by examining the material, but also with concrete proposals on how to solve the problems that have been identified in the course of the work of the Temporary Committee of inquiry. It has been an honor to lead this committee, and I would like to sincerely thank all the Commissioners for their very active, very constructive, very fruitful work. Let us not forget that the Commission has started working in an extremely sharp setting on this issue, with accusations, with a politicisation of the subject. I think we have managed to avoid this negativity and this trap in the work of the Commission and concentrate on finding out where the gaps are and proposing to the National Assembly how to remove them. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u98	If you could introduce the Project, Mr. Tsonev...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also neglected to present the draft decision to the National Assembly. At a meeting held on 27 February 2020, the report on the activities of the Temporary Committee for the Study of All Data, Facts and Circumstances on the occasion of the alleged bribery scheme in European and Bulgarian media in the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship by foreign nationals was adopted by 16 votes for.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Commission proposes the National Assembly to accept the following Project! DECISION on the report on the activities of the Temporary Committee for the Study of All Data, Facts and Circumstances on the occasion of the allegations of the scandalous bribery scheme in the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship by foreign citizens The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Adopts the Report on the activities of the Temporary Committee for the Study of All Data, Facts and Circumstances on the occasion of the allegations of the scandalous bribery scheme in the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship by foreign nationals.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u100	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. We're moving on to speeches. You have the floor, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the end of the presentation of the report, Mr. Tsonev correctly noticed that the Commission's work began in an extremely scandalous and tense situation, and I do not quote exactly, but that was the point and, you see, the Commission managed to calm the situation. Well, yes, that was the Commission's objective.. precisely to put the scandal down, to calm the situation and to make sure that at the moment the problem is considered not in a half-empty but literally in an empty room. No interest at all! Neither in plenary nor clearly in society, because this scandal with one of the ruling parties could have sunk the entire government in a normal state and in a normal parliament because it was a megaskandal. Little by little we see, as in many cases, total indifference. Here from this ruling party right now, there are three or four MPs, two or three of whom, observers of the calls, of what is happening in the Chamber, and one of them is a former chairman of this same committee, in which, even then, these same practices have been running, and he has been miserable for two years now, clearly terrified of what is happening and is happening, and he is standing, putting the mask on his face. Who knows what you'd look like if you didn't keep that mask on because you've been through a lot. Apparently Mr. Tsonev specializes in this, with these similar temporary committees we have seen, from one committee to another, coming out of one and going into another, putting down scandals. That's because the DPS has been involved in the department for a long time. DPS actively helps GERB and Mr. Tsonev is very obvious. I do not understand the BSP's plea here, you have taken out camcorders and wondered how to convince the House that the President of the Commission should be of the opposition. It is normal democratic practice for such control committees to be led by the opposition. You seem to have agreed...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u102	Mr. Shopov, I'm going to ask you to focus on the subject, and it is the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u103	...represented by the DPS to be here on this issue as well, and in society they gave answers here, we turned around, we came to Montenegro, Malta, to so-called investment citizenship and more, and other problems. But in society, the question remains very powerful: where is Haro Abi and what happens to the Bateharians?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u104	Well, that's it!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u105	Like the ladybugs, like some people who are involved in some scandals, which in IMRO do a stunt following corruption scandals, chamber scandals and is clearly forgiven. [[Noise and lines from OP.]] A temporary committee is being set up in which a good report is made and the case is closed. The case remains to be weighed down, to discredit the government and the government, because the real answers in this report were not given. It is clear what the real answers should be and what the real answers should be, to be given, but they, again, are sinking the controls. That's what happens in normal countries. After such a scandal a government must go away, but it does not go away, no interest and the caravan goes away, corruption continues.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u106	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Are there lines? I won't. We continue with the speeches. Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u107	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! First of all, no one is shaking, I do not see anyone here in the Chamber being shaken by scandalous ones, quotes, revelations of Bulgarian and foreign media, at least for the fact that these scandalous revelations have a first-rate one and only one, and what was taken absolutely truthfully by the President of the Commission, the only person, the only official, when before the Commission were heard ministers, deputy ministers, chief and deputy chief prosecutor, the President of the State Agency for National Security, the only person who did not appear and refused to appear, this is the person Katya Mateva, who is the author of these publications. Publications in foreign media are the result of what was included in her interview in Bulgarian media. There are no scandalous revelations and they have not been confirmed by the Commission's work itself. The committee has done its job, I think, in an impeccable way. It's been extended several times. This was not done in order to cover something up, to postpone it in time, but the opposite. Extremely many officials have been heard. Almost every week meetings were held, of course it was necessary to clarify the overall situation, these deadlines to be extended. We of the United patriots have signed the report on the work of the Temporary Commission and we have clearly considered that legislative changes must be made, but for this a little later. What is included in the report is the comments expressed by the officials heard accordingly. What we are impressed with is what we have tabled and as a remark in the Report, some of them have been adopted by the Commission, and some of them are not. For us there is little confusion absolutely the emphasis placed on the work of the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad. This is only the initial and far from the most important institution, which is in the stage of acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship. Next is the Directorate of Bulgarian Citizenship, Council of Citizenship of the Ministry of Justice and finally the Vice President of the Republic of Bulgaria, who confirmed, issued the relevant act for the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship. It is interesting why media publications did not mention the problems that affect these institutions that are next, and yet I would like to emphasise much more important levels than the whole process. I would ask the question here: by what criteria the Vice-President of the Republic of Bulgaria decides whether to issue an act of Bulgarian citizenship or to refuse one. Given that various institutions are involved in the Council of Citizenship, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the Agency for Bulgarians abroad, Bulgarian scientists, specialists, ethnographers, linguists, historians who express a competent opinion on whether or not a person is of Bulgarian origin in this case. When this whole chain is pronounced on the subject, we come up with a refusal that is not clear on what expertise and on what criteria it is given. Here's a question we're still looking for an answer to. Of course, we can't ask for an explanation from the President's Institution. You know, she has the right not to give us these answers, but it's a question that stands in the future. The problems are largely related to the lack of personnel resources. Perhaps those of the people, or at least the members of the Commission, who have been forced to take an interest in the entire procedure for issuing Bulgarian citizenship, are already quite aware that when there are several thousand or tens of thousands of applications for Bulgarian citizenship and received documents, there is no way, any institution within the time limits that the Law indicates, to implement this procedure. I don't know how many there are right now, there's got to be 15 grand standing there. There is no institution that can process such a large array of documents. Therefore, one of the important things that must happen in the future is restructuring the relevant units responsible for this procedure and strengthening the personnel potential of the relevant units. This, I think, was also part of the findings, or of the motives at least that were included in the Bill with which the Commission came out as a result of its work. Very often in the media and in society are confused the notions of citizenship of Bulgarian origin and so-called investment citizenship. Even for me, it is inexplicable that competent authorities mention, I give a specific quote...11 persons who have received Bulgarian citizenship who have committed crimes in the European Union.......................................................................... And this is actually one of the main motives in the work that is going on or on the remarks that we have from the European Union that it is possible to break through the European Union's system of people who are from third countries and can commit crimes. However, it is not reported that these people, first of all, found nine such cases - at least this is how I was impressed by what was exposed by officials, none of them received Bulgarian citizenship by ethnic origin, all of them by investment citizenship. On top of that, they committed a crime after receiving Bulgarian citizenship. No one can assume that a citizen born in Bulgaria or in any other country of any origin who has acquired Bulgarian citizenship, when and at what time will decide to commit any crime, that is, incorrect information was given. There is a quote, which is made, if I am not mistaken, by the Ministry of Justice, where it is said that Bulgaria is referred to as the only country that does not require the knowledge of Bulgarian language in a procedure of acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship. However, in this case, the comparison concerns only the acquisition of citizenship in naturalisation of persons of foreign ethnic origin. You know that every country naturalizes some people.. it was because of investments, it was because of contributions to society, to science and so on, which are not of the respective ethnic origins. This is the case in the European Union. However, in all countries of the European Union, including Germany, Greece, Romania, Hungary, Poland and so on, there is special legislation relating to people of relevant ethnic origin. This is also written in the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, where it is said that people of Bulgarian ethnic origin are required for them under a relieved procedure. As I said, this is also the practice in all European countries. Now let's go to the legislative measures. I believe that there are indeed details of the work of the institutions, which are related to the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship, which must be changed. I definitely think that the findings of the competent authorities and of the Prosecutor's Office in this case have been mentioned in their speech, the legislation itself implies and creates conditions for decision-making by the same person. Therefore, it is no accident that we will propose that these decisions should not be taken in the Bill, which will be looked at later, at least as far as the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad is concerned, that these decisions should not be taken single, but should be taken by a collective body, in which they will be included, as I said a short time ago, people competent, historians, linguists, ethnologists and so on who very well know the history, know the relevant regions and the situation with the Bulgarian minorities in nearby and more distant countries. I must inevitably increase the degree potential, I have already said that. There is no way the institutions can handle it the way they work so far. Yes, it is found that the time limits are not respected, but none of us, whoever is in charge of the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad, say, cannot cope with this procedure. Naturally, there are examples from the recent past when work was very good and when work was focused on much more rapid and much faster processing of documents, but this is still a matter of personal qualities, of personal will and of good organization of work. That's why we have to praise those people who worked there at the time. Finally, honourable Members, let us not compromise the idea that everyone who is born as a Bulgarian, regardless of where he lives, whether he is within the borders of today's Republic of Bulgaria, whether he is in the Republic of Northern Macedonia, Albania, Kosovo, Serbia, Romania, Ukraine, Moldova, wherever there are any Bulgarians in the world, should receive and have the right not to acquire, but to restore his Bulgarian citizenship, because these are our compatriots, our brothers and sisters, who are no different and are no less Bulgarians than us. I can even boldly argue that as a result of decades of battles and efforts to preserve Bulgarian character, Bulgarian language, Bulgarian culture in these people, they have formed a much larger Bulgarian self-awareness better developed and stronger Bulgarian feeling than our contemporary compatriots who live here where we are. Let these scandals, these attempts at media campaigns and to compromise the idea of not affecting us MPs. We need to know that Bulgaria is where there is even one Bulgarian, and we are obliged to take care of our compatriots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u108	Thank you, Mr. Bogdanov. Statements? A line? Okay. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please extend the group's time. Dear Mr. Bogdanov, you have rightly offended, but you have not further developed in your speech the essence of this procedure for acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship, namely this is a complex factual composition which begins before the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad, but it continues. Continues through the Ministry of Justice and ends with a final act by the Vice-President of the Republic at the moment the power of the President, but in fact it is practically given, given to the Vice-President, as stated in the Constitution. So, whatever allegations about criminal schemes, whatever schemes there are, they cannot be implemented and cannot be implemented without the participation of the final authority in this procedure, in this complex fact formation, in this case the Vice President of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u110	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Another line? Mr. Bogdanov? We continue with the speeches. Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u111	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! I'll be very brief. As the Commission has worked hard on the issue of the Commission Report, without allowing ourselves from this tribune to make any political play with this topic, because the Commission has actually shown that when it comes to such an important problem for the nation, for our country problem, we can work to work normally, in understanding, with clarification of all the facts, gathering all the people who have a bearing on the problem, and everyone as a representative of their political power, but also as a Bulgarian MP and Bulgarian citizen, responsible to sign and say what they think. This Commission, right are the colleagues who spoke before me, found and showed people who are not in the matter that the problem of Bulgarian citizenship is actually very wide, very serious and very important. The Commission in the Report and in its work showed that when we do it with the thought of the state Bulgaria and the people wishing to be Bulgarians, we can do it without playing with policies without playing with general fairy tales from this. Yes, there are problems in procedures, yes, there are problems with the messages that are being sent to people, to institutions, sometimes even to Europe. I will just say, without delving in, that we have also established it in the Commission. Those in matter know very well that the problem of acquiring citizenship is also a competitive problem, and a very serious competitive problem. When someone writes something sucked out of his fingers or dictated by other motives, they will immediately find themselves in the whole world - not just in Europe, people who multiply it and use it for their benefit. Colleagues, the moment we are at, the economic crisis that we are so talking about, which has covered the world, I am absolutely convinced that it will affect in this area and in the direction who, how and in how clear, accurate and correct procedures gives citizenship. We can talk about examples of both Poland and other countries and Malta, but the point is that we in the Commission have shown that all of us together, without politics, can solve problems. This is what I wanted to share with you from working on this committee. Thank you and let us be responsible.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u112	Thank you, dear Mr. Manev. - What's the line? The line, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u113	Mr. Manev, what crisis and what does this have to do with the scandal?! What Poland, what Malta?! This is about a corruption scandal, which is a megaskandal, which is a terrible scandal. And what is this pride about how well you did your job in the Commission?! That is, you have done your job well in the Commission because you have covered and replaced everyone in general, the whole Commission, the problem under the carpet, and you have rid the government of responding. What's all this you're saying? What is this pride when there is for years the most cynical way to raise money and put it into a party fund of a ruling party? The community of your committee's work wanted you here and now to give clear answers to those who are responsible for what is happening, no matter who they are. That was your job, that's what you should have done. And everything else you've done is suppressing what the public has been shaking for a long time. It's true, it's no coincidence that you're bringing in the problem during the crisis of the coronavirus, which sweeps away automatically, which saved other responsible, other streetwalkers, who put out other scandals. The coronavirus at a time when it seemed quite helpful to the rulers everything became irrelevant, everything was forgotten and as if from now on things would start again, that is the problem, Mr. Manev. You didn't do your job, you just...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u114	Finish it, Mr. Shopov!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u115	... The report you came up with was helpful, and it was a dream for those responsible.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u116	Thank you. Another line? I can't see. A hole, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u117	I'm not going to answer you specifically. You understand why? Because my whole statement was because of what you said right now here, as a line. We cannot, when we talk about Bulgarians, about Bulgarian citizenship, about giving a passport to the people who want to have self-consciousness, wish to be Bulgarians, we should measure our patriotism. How does anyone who listens to us imagine it here who says, "We are patriots and you will not give Bulgarian citizenship because something is upset there?"............................................... Where's the whole thing? Bulgarian citizenship is not limited to the work of an agency there. It is not even buried there at all, and if there are problems with the procedures that we have referred to them, and what the Commission has done, these problems are at least there, and at least I or any of the members of this committee have been dealing with sweeping or doing what is there. I cannot accept such accusations, and that is why I answer you, because these accusations are not for me, but for the entire group of MPs who were inside and who understand what this is about. They understand that there are three different procedures for the same thing, that three institutions can want the same documents and return them whenever they want. This is what we are talking about when we talk about Bulgarian citizenship! It's not that you have any party, political issues with some former colleagues of yours. It's your thing. They should not affect Bulgaria's policy regarding Bulgarian citizenship! That's why I appealed in my speech, only you decided to provoke me to finish it in a more direct text. Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u118	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u119	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I think with this committee's report, if we're honest, we have to admit that we made one big mistake. Because the mistake is this: drawing up a Commission on media publications. This commission worked in parallel with the work of the prosecution and quite naturally there was nothing more to do but to try as objectively and analytically as possible to summarize the known data, to look for the gaps in the current system for granting Bulgarian citizenship. In this regard, I congratulate my fellow Members for doing their job professionally, but I think it is high time for the National Assembly to stop working on media publications. I think that if there was a small omission in this committee, it had to say a few words.. how justified they are, in order to make all of us conclude whether we should continue in this wrong way to create a committee, put out a fire with a can of gasoline, most likely, and in some subsequent such cases. Because, if I must remind you, it all started from a spectacular prosecution action, after which the media took the role of the jury, they determined who were responsible. From there began a political and media use of the topic and how in the tiniest, most humiliating way to tear each other apart, to deal with the people who were referred to as the culprits, the ugly scene of the poultry farm with white chickens, on which someone put a red dot with paint on the head of one of the chickens and everyone ate it. Because there's not much time. Until now, over a year and a half since Peter Haralampiev was arrested, on which all charges have been dropped, there are still no public charges. This man spent eight months in jail without any evidence. At the moment, there is nothing that has been made public or made public, nor has he been convicted, nor has there been a person from my point of view, and as a person who follows this matter closely, any legitimate evidence and is therefore all the stalling and slowing. With this committee, to a certain extent, quite uncooperatively, we supported these media publications, and we indirectly supported them. The truth is quite different! There are gaps in the work of the Agency for Bulgarians abroad, there are gaps in the entire system for issuing Bulgarian citizenship, but as a result of this unimpeded, I would say spectacular, with another targeted action of the prosecution the other... was to have a good monitoring report from the European Commission and this was the reason for having a caught political person. After all, we have actually ruined this man, and it may turn out that others, too...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u120	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov, time is up!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u121	I'm finishing up, I'm finishing up. And this, in my opinion, is a stain on the Bulgarian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u122	- What's the line? Short line, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u123	Really a short line, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Simeonov, because you have spoken about the imprecise speeches, the imprecise words and the imprecise actions of various institutions, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is the main thing that applies to this tribune as well. I've always been amazed at the ease that someone here blames a person or excuses a person. I also have a personal opinion about what's going on. Not one and two are the people who are in the situation that you described, and this is a serious debate on the way our judicial system and institutions operate. But I ask you very much: when you take the floor, both you and other colleagues from all parliamentary groups, let's pay close attention to our fairy tales. Because when you're throwing words in here like this, it's been picked up for that monitoring report or something, these things have huge significance and consequences. I agree with you on the impeccable actions, agree with you on the often unnecessary publicity, especially when it comes to arrest or something, because the political opponent is one thing, the accused is something else. One can be criticised, the other has rights, and we must finally find out which institution is doing what. In a little while, when I take my attitude, if I may, Mr President, the substance of the report, I will try to explain what he did, what he could not do, what he could do. But let each of us begin to measure our words and actions, because not one and two people have suffered words and actions, and they may be people we otherwise dislike at all and even despise in the political fact, but one person who has lost his rights to us all lose our rights. That goes for citizenship, by the way, and I'll deal with it later. So, yes, unimpeded words and actions are wrong, but measure yours too!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u124	Thank you. Any other lines? A hole, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u125	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Zarkov, I could not understand exactly what was not measured in my speech, and when you make a basic statement, with one sentence you can tell me where it is. Of course, I am highly emotionally involved because I'm interested in information for all of you when I entered the post of Deputy Prime Minister at your will, there were raw 19 thousand applications for citizenship. The situation was pathetic. As a result of the actions I took with my cabinet, with the Agency for Bulgarians abroad and with the Vice President, this number was reduced by about four thousand. After which, for your information, as a result of all these media publications of this immense action and of our decision, I must tell you that the Agency for Bulgarians abroad is in complete paralysis. Nothing is viewed, nothing is foreseen, the number of applications is growing, there are almost no signed applications for Bulgarian citizenship and there is a paradox of the son of a person who has proven Bulgarian citizenship. His grandfather is a general of the Bulgarian army, his grandmother has welcomed King Boris in the center of Bitola with bread and salt and so on, all of this is documented, he is denied Bulgarian citizenship. That's where it came from, everything's paralyzed! The same applies to the Citizenship Council of the Ministry of Justice. That's the result. That is why I may be a little more emotional, but I think that we, too, unfortunately, have contributed to this paralysis as a National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u126	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. Speaking, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm starting with the fact that it wasn't wrong for this committee to be set up. Another question is what was expected of her and whether she could have satisfied them at all. The Commission's very title was indeed written newspaper. Here the previous one is right the scandalous, bribed scheme for acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship, but this also had its excuses. The accusations and scandal are indeed very serious because citizenship, ladies and gentlemen, is nothing less than the legal, formal relationship of every Bulgarian with his country. It makes us all part of a political whole, and the one who allows himself to sell it reduces the rights of all other Bulgarian citizens. It conveys the idea that we are something common something that is different from other countries, that we have specific rights that we use here to govern ourselves and to be a democratic state, and to defend our own interest. When something like this comes out in foreign or Bulgarian media and acquires publicity, it is a heavy blow to the image of our statehood. It contributes to that still undisturbed stain for Bulgaria as some country where everything is possible and where things are governed outside the rules. So the National Assembly couldn't and shouldn't have stayed away from this campaign, all the more so, naturally, it was beginning to acquire dimensions of internal struggles in our political life. That is why the Assembly rightly raised the question. This committee was able to do two things. First, he identified two legal issues, but not just. She made it very clear after hearing the chief prosecutors, who then became the chief prosecutor, that there is serious data about a corruption scheme in the implementation of procedures for obtaining Bulgarian citizenship from foreign citizens and this is recorded on page 20 of the report, i.e. all these media publications. According to our prosecution, this is subject to evidence in court, of course. There is such data and this was said here in the National Assembly, and this has its meaning. The Commission has been able to identify where the possible corruption breakthroughs in the legislation are. They're basically in two places. One is in the issue of citizenship by origin and is related to a single document "Instruction by origin', which is very important, key to the procedure itself, and at the same time it is not regulated sufficiently clearly, neither how it is issued initially nor on what grounds. That's one question. The other is for the so-called investment citizenship or citizenship, which is given for some investment. It is also found that an idea, which is to attract capital through citizenship, has been corrupted for years because these investments, which have given the opportunity to acquire Bulgarian citizenship, have not been those that create jobs, added value or something contribute to our country, but formal deposits of funds, buying government securities and others. I guess the authorities have some pretty serious information, at least that's how it became clear that there are people specializing in this business. In any case, however, it is a formal investment that gives very real citizenship, and we need serious regulation here. That is to say, the Commission, and in fact this is the reason why we support the report, managed, firstly, to find out outside the media campaign that there is really serious evidence of abuse, according to the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office, and, secondly, to identify two legal problems that make possible such abuse. What did the Commission fail to do, and it was not for its purpose at all, and it should not? Once such data have been established and if convictions are eventually followed, this report and this committee shall by no means remove political responsibility from the people in power and shall be responsible for the way in which these bodies operate. The criminal responsibility, of course, was outside the scope of this committee.... we will see how it will develop, but the issue of political responsibility has not been removed by this report and the support for this report does not mean any indulgence in the possible demand for political responsibility in proving the various charges. In addition, the Commission did not in itself give legislative solutions to the legal problems identified, it gave runways and guidelines. That's a good reason for a job. By the way, it would be nice for every single bill that we are looking at here to be preceded by hard work, not often, it is quite rare, but it does not offer the solutions themselves. It ends with that a bill will be presented, which will be reviewed by the various parliamentary groups, which is why all parliamentary groups without the BSP, as far as I understand by their representatives, have tabled this bill and it will still be considered. And there we will have to evaluate really, but comma by comma this time, so that we don't get to such unpleasant publications and scandals again, what we should, what we shouldn't do. Moreover, as rightly noted in the report, the European Commission has taken account of these issues. She took an additional relationship between the writing of this report today, because in April, as far as I know, the European Commission has sent letters of order to individual countries, including Bulgaria. In that order of thought, the work is coming, but what we have been able to do is that now everyone knows what it is and no one will have an excuse tomorrow for not knowing. We will therefore support this report. He fulfilled his goal as far as he could, but the work does not end with him and the legislation related to the provision of Bulgarian citizenship still deserves extreme attention. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u128	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Are there any lines? I won't. Thirty minutes we interrupt work and continue with the following speeches. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u129	Colleagues, we are continuing with our speeches. Mr. Bikov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u130	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will also say that the Commission's work was calm and constructive and aimed to really understand the structural problem in terms of giving Bulgarian citizenship. This problem has two aspects. One is for citizens who do not have Bulgarian ethnic origin and who receive citizenship in different order, and Bulgarians of Bulgarian ethnic origin who apply for Bulgarian citizenship on this basis. In terms of so-called foreigners. And the competent authorities reported about 16 cases of concern. A large number of them have been taken away after a crime has been committed, and in my opinion, this situation is in no way more severe than in other European countries. So we have to say that perhaps media publications on the subject were a little more hyperbolised than the real situation. There, I think, we have very reasonable and quite correct proposals that we are yet to see in Parliament. According to the second case with ethnic Bulgarians, there are actually the big problems. A major structural problem has been outlined that generates corruption because, without any evidence, we have to say that there could be corruption in this system. There are just such nests in it that they provoke corruption practices. The most important thing in this regard is the gathering of many people in one place. A narrow entry for entry into the procedure is not about giving citizenship, but about entering the procedure is a very narrow entry and at this entry, of course, the corrupt practices appear and here I am not talking about specific people, whether it is one or another, in the future, if this does not change will be a problem because it is logical. When the entrance is narrowed down to you, from now on, the way to go faster and enter the procedure so that the competent institutions can examine your documents is either to bribe someone, or to use any connections, or to go through a side entrance, and all these options are corruption. I hope in some way that this will be improved. We have, and I will use this tribune to say, a political issue that affects our country, even more in the context of the recent tensions with Macedonia, where it is actually the largest part of these Bulgarians, because that is how people who apply for Bulgarian citizenship are declared, these Bulgarians who want to receive Bulgarian citizenship. This issue is very complicated because the Bulgarian state, if you will, also through the position of the National Assembly, which was adopted with full consensus, claims that Bulgarians live in Macedonia. Of course, not only Bulgarians, there are other ethnicities, but also Bulgarians. We, in our institutions, once respect this right of self-determination of these people, but once we force them to prove it, in a very difficult way and in itself this also creates corruption. Because the criteria by which these people prove their Bulgarian origin are more subjective than objective. Here's the problem. In Macedonia, a huge part of the Bulgarian archives were destroyed during Yugoslavia, and a large part of those people who applied for Bulgarian citizenship today are unable to prove that their grandfather was Bulgarian. However, we argue, as a state policy, that until 1945 in certain settlements the Slavic population is Bulgarian, and we put ourselves before a paradox whether to follow the law or to follow our state policy and I think we should think very carefully. Once again, this is a very complicated issue, it also affects interstate relations, but we need to think very carefully about how to synchronise our state policy, which, once again, is unanimously supported by this Parliament and, in my opinion, by the previous one, and the next one will be supported, to synchronise it with the Law. Because in no case should we allow people of Bulgarian self-consciousness, of Bulgarian ethnic origin to be defined by the Bulgarian state and by the Bulgarian state institutions as non-Bulgarians. And here is the question, I have asked it to employees of the Ministry of Justice, who have visited the other commission for Bulgarians abroad, if they are not Bulgarians, what are they? And there is no answer to that question. Because even those people who do the law, or at least try to do it, cannot afford to say what the other ethnicity is if these people are not Bulgarians and are from Macedonia and apply for Bulgarian citizenship. I will conclude by saying that, first of all, I am glad that this committee was really working calmly and achieved a good result in my opinion. She had the potential, when she was created, to become a field for cheap accusations, for a blur and so on, taking advantage of some media situation, but that didn't happen, and it was all due to everyone who participated in it. Because we were really driven by the desire, as much as our powers allow, to make things at least to be improved from now on, certainly not entirely resolved. This is a dynamic process, this is something that you can fix a particular problem with today, that it will come out of another place tomorrow, but I hope in this spirit will continue the possible adoption of legislation that we have also proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u131	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Are there any lines? Statements? Mr. Tsonev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will try not to sum up exactly, but the debate was also very useful and was really in the tone of work and the results that the Commission has achieved. First, to answer some of the hotter questions. The Commission arose on the occasion of media publications by European journalists and by Bulgarian that there is scandalous corruption in the system for giving Bulgarian citizenship, that the European system for giving citizenship has been breached, and on many lines - both by investment and by line of origin. There was also pretrial proceedings. In this case, we were faced with a number of dangers such as the Commission. The first danger of repeating the functions of the judiciary by trying to seek guilt and so on and so forth. The second danger will elude us that Bulgaria is discredited, regardless of who did it, legitimately or not. I would like to respond immediately to the accusations that the Commission has not done any work on whether or not some of these publications are true. We can't say that, but in t. 1 of the Commission's conclusions we say that there is evidence of corruption, and we quote the Prosecutor General, we quote Deputy Prosecutor Geshev then, we quote the President of the DANS. However, if there is something done, it is by officials, it is not done by political parties, I want to say it very clearly from this tribune! Political parties are not officials. Those who have done it, from now on everyone can make connections, conclusions and so on, but when it is proven. We have found what the judiciary has done. We have listened, recorded it correctly in the conclusions of the report and focused on improving the functioning of this system, of course, with recommendations to the executive, the functioning of executive bodies, committees and so on, improving their capacity, distinguishing separate functions, separate procedures and so on. With regard to legislation. We have suffered extremely severe criticism from the European Commission, previously from the European Parliament Report on this part of the legislation concerning investment citizenship. I think that we have done a very thorough investigation of how things are in the other Member States of the European Union, and here my fellow Members of the Commission have made it very clear that this is about competition in this area. Colleagues, this is an investment battle! Investment citizenship is part of the battle for investment. There's nothing to close our eyes on. And the recommendations that give us to end investment citizenship are not good for the investment climate in Bulgaria. At the beginning, when these recommendations came out, there were many votes, including from both the executive and the judiciary, to conclude this process - to not have an immigrant investment programme. Yes, but this is not good for the Bulgarian economy, so we did not fail. We have studied very carefully what other countries are doing and it turns out that they are listening to the recommendations of the European Commission, improving their legislation and continuing. Do you know how big these investments are? They are of the order of several billion a year in both Cyprus and Greece and Spain. And they're mainly in the construction sector, the real estate sector. This is a sector that is an indicator of growth or recession. It is particularly important for us to maintain this sector, it is a major sector in every economy. So we will continue to be competitive in this market, offering, however, legislation in which there is real investment in the real financial sector, a real control body to monitor not only how investments are made, but also the time for which they need to be maintained in order to obtain both permanent residence and Bulgarian citizenship. In this regard, the bill that we have drawn up and signed together absolutely meets these conditions and improves, in fact, meets the recommendations of the European Commission. We will definitely close this problem with the European Commission by adopting a draft law, of course, with all the other proposals that are likely to arise. My appeal to the leadership of the National Assembly and to the majority is this week for the next week to move the Committee Bill and to begin to accept it in order to respond. Here colleagues said that in April we have another note on this topic, so we should close the issue now. We have this opportunity, we have draft laws, reports. We have to do it now, so there's no confusion. In view of the situation in the world, I would like to tell you, and not as my opinion, but as an opinion of the investment circles in Bulgaria and beyond, that the pressure for investment citizens to the countries of the European Union will increase given the epidemiological situation in the East. Many rich people there will want to make real investments in our countries because living conditions, working conditions and so on are better here. We're not talking about migration from that guy we're all afraid of, we're talking about serious things here about investment on a large scale, and so on. I think that my colleagues and I have done a good job, which we need to do in the Assembly, firstly, by accepting the Report and, secondly, by moving forward the bills that have been tabled and accepting them to respond to all criticisms. By the way, by finishing: one of the criticisms was that we gave Bulgarian citizenship to people who had convictions. Some figures have been quoted. 100, 200 and so on. It turned out, according to the Ministry of Interior and the DANS, that all of these are 9 people and, as colleagues said, we have reported it in the Report. They committed crimes after they received Bulgarian citizenship, that is, at the time of obtaining permanent residence or Bulgarian citizenship there was no record of any. However, legislation must be improved, the executive bodies must operate differently. This is an extremely important issue so that this system can function at the level of the requirements, firstly, as members of the European Union, and secondly, as Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u133	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u134	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In connection with the Temporary Commission Report, without being a member of it, I can state the following. For me, the report has fulfilled its main tasks in the first part, which is to clarify the facts and circumstances of the data exported in Bulgarian and European media in relation to Bulgarian citizenship and the procedure under it. And the previous Mr. Tsonev, mentioned the more important part, on which the Commission came up with an opinion and this legislative initiative was created, how to function, perhaps the two most important directions for the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship by self-consciousness, by inheritance line and so on. The other thing he mentioned, and I want to support it, is for the investment citizenship of the acquisition and the procedure, under clear rules, for clear investments in which the legal procedure should be in defence of the interest of the Bulgarian citizens and business, and of the Bulgarian state, to preserve this possibility. Naturally, Bulgaria should not fall behind in the competition that is being discussed just now, with other European countries. Bulgaria must seek such investments, it must protect these investments to be made in a regulated, established, transparent way. I think we should not back down here and speed should not be done at the expense of quality in legislation. All of us and the committees involved in these proposals should work because this is in the interests of both Bulgarian citizens and businesses and the Bulgarian state. We shouldn't leave this in the background and, as they say, iron should be forged while it's hot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u135	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I don't see any requests for other speeches. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the draft decision on the report on the activities of the Temporary Commission, which was presented in full by Mr. Yordan Tsonev. Vote 138 MPs: 134 against 3, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We continue with the next item on the agenda: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAWS FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAWS FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF THE SOLVENCY. With the report of the Committee on Environment and Water, Mrs. Lurtova will introduce us.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u136	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Draft Law on Supplement to the Waste Management Act, No 054-01-16, submitted by the National Representative Ivelina Vassileva and a group of MPs on 21 February 2020. At a regular meeting held on 5 March 2020, the Committee on Environment and Water examined at first reading the Draft for Supplement to the Waste Management Act, No 054-01-16, submitted by the National Representative Ivelina Vassileva and a group of MPs on 21 February 2020. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Environment and Water: Mrs. Slaveya Stoyanova, Director of the Department of Waste Management and Management, Ms. Michaela Dotsova, Director of the Directorate of Legal and Mrs. Silvia Dimitrova, Director of the Directorate of Ecological Assessment, Environmental Impact Assessment and Prevention. On behalf of the importers, the bill and the reasons for it were presented by the National Representative Ivelina Vassileva. The submitted bill aims to inform the public about all waste activities and to ensure full transparency of the information on the notifications for the transport of waste from, to and through Bulgaria. National law lays down the need to maintain such a register, but the word "public" is missing. This should not mean that it cannot be made public, but since there are differing views on this issue, the bill requires that the register be explicitly placed in the legislation to be public and available on the website of the competent environmental authority. The proposal shall also include in detail the contents of the relevant register. In addition, in relation to the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Environmental Protection, requirements are proposed for the Minister of Environment and Water within 6 months to introduce criteria determining what is a "experienced installation for research, development and development purposes' in relation to improving the incineration process. In this way, the cases in which only one letter of agreement authorises power plants to burn waste in large volumes could be eliminated, without it being clear whether the installation meets the understanding of such a test. The latter proposal is related to the introduction of a definition of the concept of a recovered product, which will reduce pollution in the use of waste of metal origin code R4 in processing plants. In this way, there will be a clear distinction between the notions of waste and recovered product. Ms. Vasileva noted that this bill has an opinion of the Ministry of Environment and Water. Attitudes on the submitted bill took the MPs Manol Genov, Krasimir Bogdanov and Yavor Bozhankov. Mr. Genov expressed his support to the Bill on behalf of the BSP Parliamentary Group, as the proposals fully coincide with their view to the control and organisation of waste. Mr. Bogdanov also said that the Parliamentary Group of "United Patriarchs" supported the bill. Finally, Mr. Bojankov expressed his support as the Bill meets the expectations of stakeholders, giving transparency and a chance for faster and concrete information about waste. The proposals of this Draft Law, together with the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Waste Management Act, will lighten up the sector as much as possible. After the discussion and the vote held, the Committee on Environment and Waters with 16 votes in favour, without abstention and abstention, supported the draft and expressed the following opinion: it proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for Supplement to the Waste Management Act, No 054-01-16, submitted by the National Representative Ivelina Vassileva and a group of MPs on 21 February 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u137	And the second report. Here you go, Mrs. Dimitrova. The report again belongs to the Committee on Environment and Water, but for the other bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u138	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act, No 054-01-14, submitted by the National Representative Manol Genov and a group of MPs on 19 February 2020. At a regular meeting held on 5 March 2020, the Committee on Environment and Water examined at first reading a Draft for amendment and supplement of the Waste Management Act, No 054-01-14, submitted by the National Representative Manol Genov and a group of MPs on 19 February 2020. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Environment and Water: Mrs. Slaveya Stoyanova, Director of the Department of Waste Management and Management, Ms. Mihaela Dotsova, Director of the Directorate of Legal and Mrs. Silvia Dimitrova, Director of the Directorate of Ecological Assessment, Environmental Impact Assessment and Prevention. On behalf of the importers, the bill and the reasons for its submission were presented by the MPs Manol Genov and Yavor Bojankov. The bill aims to align the legal regime for activities with all types of waste, reduce the grey sector in the industry, as well as increase the control and traceability of waste streams. 3 main changes have been proposed: to introduce bank guarantees for all persons carrying out waste activities regardless of their type; to introduce 24-hour surveillance at all sites where waste activities are carried out; to remove taxation with final tax withheld at source on income from sale or replacement of waste. The latter is proposed because in time it has been proven that the collection of 10% tax sharply decreases, which is linked to a growing gray sector, because some companies report a given waste as a species that does not have such tax. It is difficult to account for waste streams. Here the main argument is the circular economy where the waste generator must not be taxed and charged to stimulate recycling. Ms. Ivelina Vassileva noted that opinions were received from the Ministry of Environment and Water and the Ministry of Finance. Attitudes on the submitted bill took the MPs Mladen Shishkov and Krasimir Bogdanov, as well as Mrs. Slavaya Stoyanova, who presented the opinion of the Ministry of Environment and Water. It shows the principle of support for proposals relating to the introduction of bank guarantees and the agreement of the Ministry that this will solve to a large extent the problem of illegal shipments of waste. She noted that they did not have any objections and that they could contribute to improving the texts in the event of a working group being formed. Mr. Shishkov expressed his support to the Draft on behalf of the GERB Parliamentary Group, noting that the comments of the Ministry of Finance will be taken into account, for example, the bank guarantees regarding public operators, namely municipalities, should be reconsidered and the opinion of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria should also be sought in this regard. Regarding the proposal to drop the tax, Mr. Shishkov explained that there are reservations, but this does not close the door for comments and discussions. Mr. Bogdanov also expressed his support to the Draft on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of "United Patriarchs" and noted that he, like Mr. Shishkov, has reservations about some of the changes, which is why, if necessary, proposals can be made between first and second readings. After the discussion and the vote held, the Committee on Environment and Waters with 16 votes in favour, without abstention and abstention, supported the draft and expressed the following opinion: it proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Waste Management Act, No 054-01-14, submitted by the National Representative Manol Genov and a group of MPs on 19 February 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u139	Thank you, dear Mrs. Dimitrova. An importer's opinion. Mrs. Vasileva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u140	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the floor to state the reasons for the proposed draft amendment and supplement to the Waste Management Act. The main objective of the Bill, which we have prepared together with colleagues from the parliamentary group of GERB, is to achieve full guarantees that the public is informed about all activities related to waste management, waste recovery and incineration activities, which, as you know, have caused serious concerns among the citizens in Bulgaria. The bill is in full harmony with the spirit of environmental legislation, which aims to provide public information about the state of the environment, access to information and participation in public decision making to the maximum extent. Our national legislation lays down the necessity... [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u141	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u142	...by maintaining a number of registers in a public format so that competent authorities and society can have access to information related to environmental protection. These registers shall be published on the website of the Ministry of Environment and Water and of the Executive Environment Agency. What we have identified is that in the text of the Law it is not explicitly stated that the register related to the issued notifications for the transport of waste from, to and through Bulgaria, i.e. import, export and transit through Bulgaria, is public. This is the register to be maintained in respect of the implementation of the commitments arising from Regulation 1013/2006. Since some interpret the lack of explicit indication in the Law that the register should be public, it is not available on the pages of the competent institutions. We don't think so. We believe that this register should be accessible to all institutions and citizens, and for this reason we not only explicitly and categorically propose that the Law be entered that the register should have a public character, but we also indicate that it must contain data: the origin of waste; for companies that send, receive and transport waste; for the way, time and installation where they will be treated, and for the border point through which they will pass. In this way, we believe that we will ensure complete security and confidence to the public that there is nothing secret and hidden, that the information provided is consistent with the real state. Of course, we believe that any form of hiding information or unauthorised practices will also be avoided in this way. We also propose, in connection with another draft law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act, that a requirement be introduced to the Minister of Environment and Water within a period of 6 months to introduce criteria that determine what it is "experienced installation for research, development and testing purposes" in relation to the improvement of the incineration process. The reason for this is the lack of such criteria and the definition of an experimental installation. We believe that this will eliminate such cases as have been allowed in the last two years, namely with only one letter of agreement to give permission to the TPPs to burn waste in large volumes, without it being clear whether the installation meets the understanding of a testing one. The last element of our proposal concerns the introduction of a definition of the concept of a recovered product. The concept enters the Bulgarian legislation, accompanied by a clear definition and is related to the use of metal waste in processing plants. It is important for us to have a definition in order to prevent illegal use of metal waste in the metallurgical industry, to prevent pollution of the environment with harmful substances and, of course, to prevent a threat to human health. The introduction of a definition is also extremely important in the context of the circular economy, which is among the main priorities of the European Union, as there will be a clear distinction between the concepts of waste and recovered product. To conclude, I would like to stress that in the Committee on Environment and Water, the bill has been adopted unanimously, so I also hope that you will all support the proposed changes here in this House. In this way, we will achieve the objective that I believe we are all striving for, namely: improving the regulation in order to prevent contamination with harmful substances and to prevent any risks to human health and environmental components. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u143	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vasileva. Opinion of the other importer. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u144	Madam President, honourable Members! I see that Minister Dimitrov was here somewhere, but apparently he has no physical interest in visiting the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u145	It's here in the hall. He's in the hall, Mr. Genov. He's right back there.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u146	Oh, I apologize. I didn't notice that. He's very masked, that's why.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u147	Mr. Minister, please come to the seats of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u148	We have prepared these proposals for amending the Waste Management Act, based on the practice that legislative gaps exist. We have all seen violations, lack of control, which has not been properly exercised by regional environmental and water inspections, we have witnessed media reports about how prosecutors are searching for companies with two leva of statutory capital, cannot find where the waste is from, what is, which code they are, and therefore we offer the introduction of bank guarantees for all participants in this process. The analysis of the introduction of bank guarantees, of the purchase of ferrous and non-ferrous metals from 2012, shows that the grey sector has shrunk exclusively for 6 years, but by shrinking the grey sector in the buying-in of ferrous metals, it goes to other types of waste and the introduction of bank guarantees for all entities involved in this process, operators, traders producers, will lead to a brightening of the sector, to serious guarantees of control over it. In addition, a company with two leva statutory capital is fined by five or ten thousand leva. The RIEW starts looking for her, giving her a penal order, but she's bankrupt. This will also increase the collection of criminal decrees issued by the competent authorities in this case. The other part of our proposal is the video surveillance of all sites where they are treated, stored and produced waste. Again the same legal regime for everyone, because this video surveillance exists on the sites for trade in ferrous and non-ferrous metals, there is also the treatment, storage and disposal of household waste, so the legal regime really this time, as we say, the arsin will be the same for everyone. And the third point in our proposal is the cancellation of the tax. In such a situation in the case of forecasts that the state budget is not being implemented for a number of reasons and revenues are significantly down, it is a little difficult to talk about this issue. However, the analysis shows that six years ago, this type of tax was collected 22 million. lv. This is a 450% drop in the amount of tax collected from the Republican budget for 2018. This leads to economic operators engaged in this activity to additional administrative, non-existent costs: accounting, retention, translation. I would like to stress again that this tax is indeed insignificant on the basis of what is being collected and which was collected years ago. Also, such a tax, which is collected at source, is contrary to European tax legislation. These proposals, as you have heard from the report, have been unanimously supported by the entire composition of the Committee on Environment and Water. I hope so in the Commission at second reading. We will also see the relevant proposals that will take place, and I call on you to support it at second reading in this House. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u149	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. I'm opening the debate. Come in for a statement, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u150	Madam President, honourable Members! A normal, common practice in the human approach to the absorption of problems is based on experience, analysis of experience, mistakes that have accumulated to move towards development, to move towards progress, to optimize the environment as a whole. This is standard human activity, however, which, colleagues, if we apply it directly to the environment, we will not find the right approach. Or, to put it another way, if it doesn't manifest both political and expert will, not to wait on the basis of a trial-mistake to optimize the process, but to introduce such approaches, such methodologies, such strategies, so that we do not harm the environment, because there is nothing more devastating about the environment based on the experience and the error of managing the processes. Accept that both bills here, which are offered to your attention, are precisely such a different approach. Unfortunately, with the problem of waste and what has happened, a little bit suffered in public terms, but I call for your will and consent to the positive things in these two bills to be supported. In short, they represent exactly such an effort to improve the environment, to lighten the processes, I mean the proposal of colleagues from GERB, as well as our proposal. So these are commendable efforts, these are good efforts, and I think that at second reading we will be able to get even closer to the truth so that we can make a better tool. These efforts must not stop only with these proposals, they must continue from now on. Thank you, everyone. Indeed, in the Commission, we had much of a consensus, since I believe that the things that are being proposed are both rational and reasonable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u151	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Shishkov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u152	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! The epidemiological situation cannot undo the problems in ecology, so we continue to work with full force in this matter and proof of this are the proposed laws that we are currently looking at. I would like to congratulate my BSP colleagues first of all on my first legislative initiative in the sector of Ecology from the beginning of the term of office, which is not only sufficiently well argued, but it will also be supported by colleagues from GERB. This will be my call to them, which is an indication that the ecology sector is overparty and that the topics that we concern are really important, as my colleagues have said before me. In short, I would like to say a few things about the BSP proposal. There are three main hypotheses developing, as the first, on the relation of the video surveillance of sites that treat waste, we have absolutely no comments. Moreover, in historical terms, I would like to remind you that in 2012, such an amendment was adopted, which regulated video surveillance at all sites operating with non-ferrous and non-ferrous metals. Last year we, on a proposal from GERB, adopted another amendment, which obliged all operators of plants that burn waste and all who treat household waste to be implemented video surveillance systems to be with 24-hour access to the municipalities and to RIEW. So in this line of conduct, we cannot help but support this proposal, which practically shuts down the entire range of activities dealing with treatment, treatment and trade of waste, which, in turn, will give a much greater transparency on the ground and will give even more tools in the hands of the control bodies. With regard to the proposal for bank guarantees, we support it in principle with several remarks, which are dictated by the opinions of the Ministry of Finance, as well as the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, which express a very serious concern regarding public operators, in particular the municipalities and not only the municipalities, but also the Association of Municipalities. You know that there are sites, such installations, such depots, for which on the proposal of BSP colleagues bank guarantees will need to be provided, which, in turn, bank guarantees will currently aggravate their budgets, which are currently in serious condition in the light of the crisis. We believe that this measure is not very adequate at the moment, so we will propose it for discussion and discussion. Perhaps we should take into account the Finances or the Association of Municipalities, so that perhaps after a discussion we can adopt some kind of amendment that will free the municipalities from this commitment. Moreover, they bear their responsibility to citizens in terms of waste management, we do not need to further aggravate them with financial burdens. As regards the amendments to the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals, we fully share the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, which is categorically against the exemption of natural persons from such tax. Undoubtedly, such an exemption is regarded as a tax relief and it raises the question of discriminatory treatment to the others who pay taxes, so that we could not take such an approach, regardless of the arguments that have been put into the reasoning of the Members. A few words for the proposed bill by the Political Party GERB. The trend in the environment sector is clear. We must ensure that all processes that concern the environment are as transparent as possible, all processes that concern the life and health of Bulgarian citizens are as public as possible. In this sense, and in that sense, it is the proposal, namely, that the activities under Regulation No 213 of 2006 on the notification and transmission of waste be as public as possible by being exported to a single register. Of course, the measures and the way in which this register will be written are detailed. There are some remarks from branch organizations that will be discussed, of course. To conclude, I would like to say that, as representatives of the legislative power, we are obliged to be uncompromising in the environment sector, because we see what the sensitivity of the population is, what the sensitivity of the Bulgarian people in this matter is, and any falling in one direction or another can have a very severe negative impact. Therefore, we must always be ahead of events, we must always be adequate to the dynamic changes in the sector of Ecology. That's all I'm done with. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u153	Thank you, dear Mr. Shishkov. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u154	Mr. Shishkov, it is very good to tolerate the municipalities, but so the arsin will not be the same for all operators who carry out such activities with waste. I would like to remind you that just a few hours ago, we voted in the measures for municipalities to be able to make more free use of their funds than the calculations under art. Art. 60 and under Art. 64. It is safe to think of a mechanism for their money deposited in these accounts to be used as a possible bank guarantee for any future violations of theirs, future acts, you know illegal landfills, other violations in many places. These are just things from life and from practice and the mayors of municipalities are being sanctioned. So this will be a much easier way for the state to collect money from municipalities. I think such an option can be thought of and can be made clear as a legislative proposal between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u155	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. Second line? I can't see. Mr. Shishkov, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u156	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Genov, yes, you are right. You have your reasons for putting municipalities in unfair competition against private operators, but the burden and responsibility that municipalities bear is much greater than any private operator. This does not preclude the possibility for us to put together a working group to discuss all possible hypotheses. Moreover, if you consider carefully in the opinion of the Association of Municipalities, there are proposed several things that are reasonable. We may be thinking in this direction, but let's not give sanctions now, from this tribune. As you know, we're open to discussion. During the working group I think we will find the best text in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u157	Thank you, dear Mr. Shishkov. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u158	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In a nutshell, I would like to present the position of the DPS parliamentary group on the submitted bills amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act. Secondly, I would like to say that we will support the proposals made by Mrs. Ivelina Vassileva and a group of MPs, sharing the reasons and arguments they present. For us, a leading argument is that there will be greater awareness of the priority here I would place public awareness. Naturally, it will also apply to the competent authorities. At first and second readings, we will support these proposals. With regard to the proposals made by Mr. Manol Genov and a group of MPs at first reading, we will also support their proposals, and we would like to make some comments here, similar to what was presented by the negotiating Members here on behalf of the two parliamentary groups. I wouldn't want to repeat myself, I'll point them out very briefly. First of all, with regard to video surveillance, we also have no reservations, we will support at first and second readings. I will not repeat myself, I said earlier, but with regard to the bank guarantees and the tax changes that are being proposed, the texts must be refined not only in view of the financial aspects that they would eventually burden, as colleagues have pointed out here, the municipalities, but also in view of the legal nature of these proposals, they must be re-interpreted. There is an opportunity between first and second readings to all make the relevant proposals. We share as the leading component from our point of view the arguments and considerations presented by the National Association of Municipalities in our country. In view of these remarks to be taken into account, I repeat, we will support under the condition of the Law amending and supplementing the Law, which was tabled by Mr. Genov and a group of MPs. We will also participate in the working group to interpret the texts, to be consistent with the public needs. "More transparency in the field of waste management, activities in this direction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u159	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Bojankov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u160	Madam President, honourable Members! Please note that as Chairman of the Association of Recycling Industry in Bulgaria I am in conflict of interest and will not take part in this vote. I would like to express to you my opinion as an expert and a man who knows the sector. The reason for this legislative initiative was the numerous cases of illegal imports and treatment of waste in Bulgaria, which outraged and with good reason, Bulgarian society. The Committee on Environment and Water has found a balanced approach and all parliamentary groups have been able to reach a basic agreement on how to solve this problem. Regarding the proposal of colleagues from GERB, which concerns the register a good proposal in the direction of transparency. The task force may need to refine it, because at the moment all data, including which company is working with which company will become publicly known. There were workshops at the Ministry of Environment and Water and these arguments were categorically put forward by the experts in the sector. Regarding the proposal made by colleagues from BSP for Bulgaria. Bank guarantees are something that has proven to be working in the sector. In 2012, it was introduced with regard to metal waste in order to limit the grey sector, and it has proved its result. So I'm guessing my colleagues have given here the same proposal for waste streams that were left without a bank guarantee. So phantom companies with 2 leva. capital, the so-called freeriders in the sector, bring in trash and then they're not responsible. The guarantees will regulate that. And why are they also offered for municipalities? As a lawyer here, I think it's constitutional. It is not because someone wants to aggravate the municipalities, but because the municipalities act as legal entities here there is a strong caselaw in this direction, there is also a clear constitutional framework. This is our reason I suppose colleagues wouldn't mind making editorial changes and complying with all the notes. With regard to the Ministry of Finance, from which they express a negative opinion, and colleagues from GERB who fear the cancellation of this 10% tax, let me explain it simply. When a person brings his property to recycling, a boiler, a stove, it doesn't matter, the company that accepts it for recycling must hold 10% tax on it. But this tax exists only in Bulgaria throughout the European Union. The rules of the circular economy say that the waste generator should not be taxed with taxes and fees in order to be stimulated to recycle. Moreover, this is not a pure income for the natural person. It bought this water heater, paid VAT, paid tax. That's not pure income. This tax, and by the way, in a sector such as recycling, the margins are below 10%, it is a huge interest that companies stop collecting it. I proved that with my question to the Minister of Finance. I put out a question: how many taxes were collected in the introduction of the tax? In the first year, that's 60 million. lv. And then it's 3 million. lv. I mean, 57 million. lv. tax evaporates into the air. The question is: where did he go? That is to say, this tax is not being collected, it generates a grey sector. And I'll tell you this gray sector where it finds expression in distorted data, as some waste streams do not have such a tax and people mass write one waste as another or as generated by a legal entity instead of a physical one. This leads to the bizarre statistics, say, in one year in Bulgaria to have incredible quantities of recycled packaging, they do not have such a tax; to be the first in Europe in one year on some other waste stream. All this distorted data. What is the context of this proposal? The import of Italian trash finds a favorable environment in Bulgaria because in Bulgaria there is a grey sector, there is a built system that can transform one waste into another, make it another origin and eventually hide it from the competent authorities................................................................................................................................................... With this proposal, the sector will come to light, I think it is also the opinions of colleagues from the recycling sector. Thus there will be traceability, and in combination with the guarantees and what colleagues from GERB offer as a register of publicity, will give an answer to the case with unregulated imports and treatment of waste. That's the solution. Everything else is populism. In the Commission we also heard populist decisions from various politicians outside the parliament who wanted imports, anatomy of waste, if possible, the whole sector would go bankrupt. Thank God, so far the mind prevails in the Commission. I think we'll find the best solutions on the way to the task force, but please don't ignore what I said. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u161	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojankov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Colleagues, I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. Colleagues, in order to be correct, we will first vote on Mr Genov's proposal and a group of MPs, with a further registration. I put to the first vote a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act, No 054-01-14, submitted by the National Representative Manol Genov and a group of MPs on 19 February 2020. They voted 117 MPs: 117, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I put to the first vote a bill supplementing the Waste Management Act, No 054-01-16, submitted by the National Representative Ivelina Vassileva and a group of MPs on 21 February 2020. They voted 113 MPs: for 113, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-14.u162	Parliamentary control announcements on 15 May 2020, Friday: 1. Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer two questions from the MPs Valentin Kasabov; and Dzhevdet Chakarov. 2. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Dessislava Taneva will answer a question from the National Representative Stoyan Bozhinov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva, to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Ivo Hristov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to two questions with a written answer from the MPs Boryana Georgieva; and Elena Pesheva; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov to two questions with a written answer from the MPs Kristian Vigenin; and Georgi Gokov; - the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to four questions with a written answer from the MPs Elena Pesheva; Hristo Prodanov; Ivo Hristov; and Anna Slavova. - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva to four questions with written answer from the MPs Georgi Gokov; Elena Pesheva [[two questions]] ; and Violeta Jelena; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to three questions with written answer from the National Representative Elena Pesheva. For lack of respectable reasons, Members of the National Assembly shall postpone the responses to: - one question from the National Representative Christian Vigenin to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev; - a question from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov to the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev; - three questions from the National Representative Krastina Taskova to the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mariana Nikolova; to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev; and to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva. Due to established cases of COVID-19 in the system of the Ministry of Environment and Water, the Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov will not participate in the meeting for parliamentary control. That concludes today's parliament meeting. Tomorrow we will continue on May 15, 2020 at 9:00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
