ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, on the grounds of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I suggest that it be included in the Programme for the Work of the National Assembly the following additional point: Please, voting mode. They voted 171 MPs: 150, against 3, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. We move to the first point for today's plenary session: FIRST VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATION OF ECONOMIC ACTIONS RELATED TO OIL AND OIL PRODUCTS. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 6 December 2019. First is the Commission's report on monitoring revenue agencies and combating the grey economy and smuggling. Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u2	Mrs. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the administrative regulation of economic activities relating to oil and petroleum products, No 902-01-65, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 December 2019. At an extraordinary meeting held on 14 January 2020, the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling examined the Draft Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Administrative Regulation of the Economic Activities relating to Oil and Oil Products, No 902-01-65, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 December 2019. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Economy: Mr. Emil Karanikolov, Minister of Economy; Representatives of the Bulgarian Oil and Gas Association; Bulgarian Industrial Association; Confederation of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria; Association of Producers, Distributors and Consumers of Bottled propane-butan; Association of Bulgarian Traders, Producers, importers and carriers of fuels and the National Association of Grain Producers. The bill was presented by the Minister of Economy Mr. Emil Karanikolov, who focused on the main changes. The draft law provides for the removal from the scope of the law of the temporary storage and/or loading activity by a farmer registered under the Agricultural Support Act, of his own products of petroleum origin outside tax warehouses or holdings of registered recipients within the meaning of the Law on excises and tax warehouses intended for the farmer's own economic activity, which are not subject to subsequent sale. Relief of registration requirements by introducing differentiated thresholds for minimum capital/assets and collateral depending on net sales revenue for the previous calendar year as a requirement for carrying out the activity concerned. This will facilitate the process of registration and activity of a wider range of individuals to carry out economic activities with oil and petroleum products. Creating an opportunity the internal object from which activities will be carried out under art. 2, para. 1, be not only permanently attached to real estate, but also moved. This proposal takes into account the specific nature of activities in important sectors for the economy, such as mining industry, construction, port activities and others, in which in many cases it is objectively impossible to build a permanently attached internal site. Precise the texts of art. 24 and 25 of the Law in view of the clear definition of the prohibitions introduced by it. Changes in the general and special conditions for all activities as well as the necessary documents for registration of the persons implementing them are also proposed. The final user is defined, which is extremely important in order to apply the exemption in the case of oil and petroleum products. The attitude of the presented bill took the MPs Valentin Nikolov, Valeri Simeonov and Emil Dimitrov. Following the discussion and the vote held: with 10 votes for a vote, without abstention and 5 votes, the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling proposes that the National Assembly adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Administrative Regulation of Economic Activities relating to Oil and Oil Products, No 902-01-65, submitted to the Council of Ministers on 6 December 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. The second report is from the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Here you go, Mrs. Belova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u4	♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the administrative regulation of economic activities relating to oil and petroleum products, No 902-01-65, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 December 2019. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 15 January 2020, discussing the quoted bill. In the meeting of the Commission took part: from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry: Georgi Alexiev, Head of the Department of Agriculture and Regional Policy and Diana Fileva, Acting Head of the Department of Legal Activities and Law of the European Union and from the Ministry of Economy: Temenuzhka Yankova, Director of the Directorate of Economic Activities and Ivan Pavlov. Representatives of branch organizations were also present. The bill and its motives were presented by Temenuzhka Yankova. The competence of the Commission on Agriculture and Food is the proposals relating to the removal from the scope of the Act of Temporary Storage and/or Charging Activities outside tax warehouses or warehouses of registered recipients where temporary storage and/or loading is carried out by a farmer registered under the Agricultural Aid Act, in containers and/or in tanks with a total capacity of not more than 50 cc. M, products of petroleum origin are their own, intended for their own economic activity and not subject to subsequent sale. In the subsequent discussion, the MPs from all parliamentary groups unanimously supported the proposed changes, expressing their readiness between the first and second votes to make proposals to refine some of the texts. From the parliamentary group of "United Patriarchs"........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ From the Association of Bulgarian Traders, Producers, importers and carriers of fuels and from the National Association of Grain Producers also supported the Bill. Following the discussion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 21 votes for the Council of Ministers, with no objection, proposed that the National Assembly adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the administrative regulation of economic activities relating to oil and petroleum products, No 902-01-65, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 December 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u5	Thank you, dear Mrs. Belova. Will we have an importer's opinion? No. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor. Please come in for a statement. Mr. Gechev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u6	Madam President, honourable Members! Consider two frightening facts. First of all, it's a billion-dollar sector. Importer is the Council of Ministers. From the Council of Ministers, Madam President, there is no one. This is the attitude of the Council of Ministers to the Bulgarian Parliament and to the Bulgarian economy. It is an insolence to introduce a bill concerning billions of levs in the Bulgarian economy and there is no one! Madam President, can't you call someone? I've said the maid of the Council of Ministers before, but somebody come!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u7	I'll get back to you, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u8	Get in touch. Call them by the water meter!?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u9	Not on the water meter, on the phone.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u10	You can call on the water meter.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u11	There are already modern communications.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u12	Second, pay attention, honourable Members, on 27 July 2018 in the Official Journal of the European Union, No. 62 is the promulgation of the Law on which we are now discussing the amendments. On 27 July 2018, we obliged the government by the end of the year to publish a regulation implementing the Law. What's the score? Zero. The Bulgarian government decides that it will not implement the Law. I am not sure, but it is possible to be the only country not only in Europe, but in the world a adopted law published in the Official Journal. 62. It's 2020 and it's not working. What is the signal to foreign and Bulgarian investors: the Law is adopted, it is promulgated, the parliament has obliged the government to make a regulation, and it does not. The parliament voted an extension for the government for another six months to make the regulation. And guess what: the government does nothing, does not publish any ordinance for another six months, and now " 2020" comes to us at the last minute to make changes to the Law. Note: the last time he went through committees that are close to the logic of six or seven committees. Madam President, this law was dealt with on Tuesday, on an emergency session, because the President of the Commission, in which he is concerned about the grey economy, will be elected as Minister and was elected yesterday. Emergency meeting after a year and a half delay for the promulgation of the regulation!? Guess why this bill, which concerns billions, didn't come to the Economic Commission, wasn't discussed, wasn't on the Budget Commission? For hundreds of millions of dollars! Why? What's the hurry? Third point, note in your opinion why amendments to the Law are being considered. She has done a study on the Commission for Protection of Competition. It gives the government the brains to make serious amendments to this law, which has been published but has not entered into force for two years. That is, once they have seen that things are not going well and a big law has been passed, there is an excuse. What? There is now a demand for an agency in the case of the Commission for Protection of Competition, to give them an excuse to get out of this quagmire. And see what the Commission for Protection of Competition writes? Your commission, which you have chosen, that more than half of the participants in the study? they have done research on this market, have expressed a negative opinion on the Law, considering that it is directed against the rules of the free market and market competition and identify the following problems. 2018 several committees in the majority of GERB vote and there is an opinion from the Ministry of Finance, the Economics, the Internal Affairs and despite our objections from the opposition, you are adopting a law that is contrary to market competition according to the Commission for Protection of Competition. That's it! We are talking about a functioning market economy, we are making a transition to a market economy, you are adopting a law that is against competition. We don't say it, the KPC says it. And further on what she says, what are the problems of introducing high financial and other requirements; placing new and substantial administrative barriers to entry into the market of new participants; imposing such administrative procedures that create and support monopolies, destroying the market economy and competition; they say, the KPC is bringing out small and medium-sized traders of fuels and staying only to the large ones, which will dictate the conditions, which is a prerequisite for cartel agreements, limiting the possibilities of end-users to refuel at a close distance in small settlements. In conclusion, I am always quoting the KPC, colleagues: the KPC proposes to form a working group with representatives of state authorities competent for the implementation of regulations in the sector. Note that the KPC tells you competent, because it is obvious that a swarm of ladybirds has written this law. Not only are the Kalinkas, but these are the obeying Kalinkas, these are most likely well-paid ladybirds to make such a law, so according to the KPC he would benefit the monopolies and block market competition, according to your KPC. Besides, what is being done now in the proposed amendments? First of all, I would like to remind you that two requirements have been made to address now the propane butane trade with the bottles. Dear colleagues, in this law you have obliged traders, propane butane suppliers in bottles to buy and have at least 10 thousand in stock. bottles to remind you, right? At least 10,000. bottles! It is very interesting that in this law and our Ministry of Economy has obliged these traders and suppliers at least 10,000. bottles in stock, not bought and put into circulation. In other words, when the Law 2018 was published, by giving them a deadline to make the Ordinance promulgable as of January 2019, what did people do? They buy bottles that want to stay on the market. How much? Ten thousand minimum. Do you know how much a bottle costs? About 25 euros with VAT is the delivery, that's what a bottle costs. The people bought 10,000, some bought several associations of 15 times 17, 20 thousand bottles, which one year stood in stock frozen money. And now, do you know what the amendment offers? It's called a joke, Willie. I apologize for the expression. It was a mistake, guys. But you've put in 600, 700 thousand. BGN, we are changing now the Law, no longer required bottles, we will introduce competition. But these people pawned their apartments, real estate, borrowed money to secure those 10,000 bottles that are now dropping out. Secondly, this law obliged market participants to have specially equipped warehouses with a minimum of 500 cubic metres. m. In order to have such a warehouse, it must meet certain requirements, colleagues, distance from schools, location. People bought such areas, built the appropriate warehouses. I asked them how much an average of 500 cubic metres is worth. Huh? At least two million leva. So two million leva, which now cancels this demand for such a warehouse, plus 500 lv. for a minimum of bottles. And now you want to tell people who have spent over two and a half million to stay on the market small and medium-sized companies, you tell them to mind their own business and you apologize for the worry. This tells us the new law and we cannot agree in this oil sector to cross over small and medium-sized companies who have made efforts and risked their families to meet these requirements. Furthermore, we do not agree with the differentiation that is set here for collateral requirements, as in art. 11, where an attempt has been made for some differentiation, which is positive in the first points, we will specifically support this text at second reading, but nothing is said about the persons under art. 2, para. 1, t. 5 and for the persons referred to in art. 2, para. 1, t. 6.. they are missed. And they are missed for a reason, because not mentioning these points means that big companies are favored at the expense of small and medium-sized ones. So, honourable Members, today's discussion shows the following: firstly, that the government, our Bulgarian government, does not give a shit about parliament, is gone. Last time they made you press the buttons. Your KPC says it is a tragedy and it is dangerous for the market economy and will ruin us with fines from the European Union. Now you've been assigned again to press the button, but they're gone. You, us, the entire parliament will bear the shame. It's a shame to pass laws like that. If you would have listened to our recommendations, colleagues, remove our opinions, withdraw the minutes from our committees........................................................................................................................................................ For all these things, we have warned you that they are wrong and will lead to serious problems. So in conclusion: we are going to vote against it, perhaps one of us abstained under this law, as we are against this procedure. We are against this anti-European way of making laws. And separate two or three texts that really benefit market participants and consumers, we will support. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u14	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! First, I will start by joining Professor Gechev's statement and supporting him, as well as our parliamentary group. The process that is taking place is quite rapid. This amendment and supplement bill was introduced quickly, but nevertheless people from small-scale fuel traders' organisations were able to contact me and talk to me, since we had had previous meetings, even more so, I have tabled in the previous draft a proposal for a series of amendments from which three were adopted, and I believe that we can draw up such a bill to serve the industry and not hinder its functioning. First of all, I would like to start with the fact that we have implemented a legal paradox, namely the adoption of a law promulgated, has entered into force, but no regulation has been drawn up for its application. It is good that the experts in the Ministry of Economy made it clear that if they were to draw up such a regulation, this would lead to mass bankruptcy in the industry and would create conditions for unfair competition for an inequality between the participants in the economic life in this sector. The other thing I would also like to draw attention to is once again the Commission for Protection of Competition, which has been entrusted with proposing a series of measures to help create conditions in the sector for equality, competitiveness and competitiveness between participants and traders of fuels. I would like to add here Professor Gechev that the Commission for Protection of Competition makes two very important proposals which somehow fall into the Council of Ministers, the specialists do not pay attention to them, and they are, I would say, at the heart of equality, namely the survey carried out by the Commission for Protection of Competition finds that until now no state tax warehouses have been created in the territory of the country for the purposes of the Law on excises and tax warehouses. In the analysis, which served as a motive for the development of this CI, the KPC again recommends that emergency measures be taken for the construction of state tax warehouses, especially at the border points to be managed by state undertakings and used by fuel suppliers under non-discriminatory conditions and prices and subject to the principle of competitive neutrality. In this way, the State would enter the market as a provider of the relevant service, which could expect an increase in competitive pressure at the level of wholesale and retail fuel trade, as well as at the level of supply of services by warehousekeepers. The other essential recommendation made by the Commission for Protection of Competition is precisely that an electronic platform must be established that, in real time, would be available to the control authorities and separately to the traders of fuels on the free capacities in those warehouses. In practice, at present, any trader who wants to import fuel must turn to these warehousekeepers, which are one of his competitors, and ask them for free capacities. What the Association of Small Traders has told me is that the answer is usually that stocks are already filled, there are no stocks available, and if they wish, they can buy from them, that is to say a free competition is offered. You have the right to work, but only if you buy from the designated supplier. In this regard, we cannot support the proposed bill and we will abstain by making proposals between first and second readings of our legislative norms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u15	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Are there lines? We continue with the speeches. Any other speeches? You have the floor, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am concerned about this law, but also about the speeches, as there were marked some inaccuracies, I would say, and deliberately manipulated. In these speeches, which I listened very carefully to and both of my fellow Members' speeches on the left, I could not really understand what they were against and what they were for. So, against the monopoly of large companies, its promotion with the original version of the Law or against the presence of small, medium-sized businesses in this sector, which is guaranteed by the current amendments to the Law. Some schizophrenic behavior that doesn't really make sense to you what you support, or generally what's important from this tribune is to make reproaches and seek motivation for not supporting any bill that has been tabled. We all know very well the history of this bill. It is absolutely true, this bill, Mr. Gechev, was lobbying in his first version. Absolutely lobbyist! He served the interests of several large oil companies known to the whole of Bulgaria. When it was imported, respectively, there was a sharp reaction from the whole industry of people who deal with transport, delivery and sale through small gas stations in smaller towns in the province. I, as Deputy Prime Minister, then came down and supported this protest before the Council of Ministers. I have also made a statement, my colleagues from the "United Patriarchs" also expressed this position in the discussion of the Bill that it is lobbying. Yeah, that's a fact. After all, in politics, no matter who governs the BSP, the United Patriarch with GERB, someone else, there are always attempts to pass lobbying laws and it is not only in Bulgaria, it is everywhere. The point is to respond promptly. In this case, this reaction consisted precisely in the postponement of the Law twice for six months and, on my suggestion, we postponed it for three months through the Ordinance. A task force was also established. In other words, relatively quickly the executive authority, I would say, with our cooperation, and I was there then, realized that this is a harmful law for the business in Bulgaria and consequently a working group was formed at the Ministry of Economy, in which everyone involved in this process and gave their proposals. This working group had a period of six months to prepare changes. It was delayed by about a month and a half, but nevertheless it did work and the submitted bill actually represents everything that is undoubtedly accepted by all participants in the industry. This is being tabled right now and this is what we are about to vote on. I cannot understand what motives you refuse to vote with, since you have firmly sided with small business, at least in your speech? I can't understand your group's position, why won't you accept this bill? I believe that we must correct the error made by the executive by introducing this bill. That's already done. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Who put it in, I can't tell you it's been a while, but anyway, we're here to take our responsibility. We will take our responsibility by supporting this law. I want to know: What responsibility will you take and to whom will you take towards the big sharks in the industry or the small ones that feed several families? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. - What's the line? You have the floor, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Simeonov, honourable colleagues! Of course we need to make an explanation, which is important. Firstly, the BSP in the legislation has always defended the interests of small and medium-sized companies and has supported all reasonable solutions for large companies, as if large companies do not work well, the small and the large companies that work on market principles will not work either. Colleague Simeonov, somehow it is not acceptable to attack the BSP after the importers of this bill are still "United Patriots" and under No. 1 is Mr. Emil Dimitrov the new minister. He submitted the Law with a long list of patriots and colleagues from GERB. We were against it and we told you why we were against it. And now you say why we do not support that you have introduced a Law that not only is against the market economy, but we have told you that it is also against common sense?! It took a year and a half to get someone to believe that something wasn't and would ruin us by fines and penalties from the European Union and messing up our entire industry. And as far as big companies are concerned, thank you for what you asked for to provide an explanation. There is one feature, colleague Simeonov, it is that now filling of gas bottles will be able to become at the gas stations. There's an interesting moment here. I know that you have always expressed yourself against the violation of market principles. Have you heard what a number of gas stations are doing? Did you know that there is no excise duty on propane butane, which is given to families or for use of small companies, and the use of engines with gas systems is paid excise duty of 400 BGN. Is that right? What do gas stations do? They report the sale of gas bottles where no excise duty is paid and they transfer it to light cars, and they earn huge amounts. So we kill small and medium-sized companies in municipalities at the expense of big suckers from large chains.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u20	That's why we're against it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. But I say again: we are against this approach and we are politically voting against it. Where there are reasonable texts, we will support them, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u21	Thank you. Second line? I can't see. Hole, Mr. Simeonov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u22	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Gechev, once again you state that you do not support this law, which is against the market and against common sense. You're definitely talking about the first version of the Law, so I understand. These are two different documents. The first one that was adopted and the second one. You say you've always been against this, but, I'm sorry, I have a feeling we were very few people who sided with the protesters back then. In a long period of time, excuse me, but you have not expressed any strong party position on this issue and on this law. No, you didn't! I don't know why. Regarding what you said about filling the gas bottles, bring a change to the Law. It's okay, we'll support it, bring it in, there's no problem, because it's not really markety and you're absolutely right. In this way, the possibility of circumvention of the Law and of unequal treatment from a competitive point of view is created. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u23	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. We continue with the speeches. Here you are, Mr. Sabanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I take the floor under this law because in its very beginning the only one on the left side of the hall who really expressed a negative opinion on the first option was Professor Gechev. The other one was me. Professor Gechev very well remembers when some great powers were in the committees, how everyone looked at their shoelaces and how several people fought for this law not to be passed at first reading as it was imported. There is now a Law that we actually have to vote on until the 26th of the two readings. I'll tell you why: one side, of course, are the ones selling gas, the other is the small gas stations, and the third side, which is not irrelevant, are farmers. They are a very large group of people who should, if not adopted and promulgated the Law by the 26th, of course, will have to be registered under this law and in a week they will have to start deregistered when we accept it. So I'm really asking you. I don't see what's wrong with the Law. It's a first reading. Between first and second reading will, of course, be discussed all proposals of all MPs, including the Bulgarian Gas Association, small gas stations and farmers who have minor amendments to the proposed bill. After all, this is a first reading and I do not see what the drama is, given that between first and second reading we will have plenty of time to discuss all the details that concern associations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u25	Thank you, Mr. Sabanov. A line? You have the floor, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleague Sabanov, I'm taking this moment to address Mr. Simeonov, I'm afraid we're being misunderstood at the moment. Just because we do not agree with the philosophy of the Law, with its initial project, with part of what you are proposing at the moment, does not mean that we will not support, as you said, counterpart Sabanov, a large group of the community, in this case the farmers. This text, I would say, and some of the other texts will also be supported. What we reserve as our right is to submit between first and second reading proposals for amendments, explicitly stating that this concept, which you offer, a lighter registration, will still not lead to the better functioning of this industry. That's what we have as a remark. And as for this, yes, you will get this support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u27	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Second line? You have the floor, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u28	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would just like to point out to my colleague that this is, after all, a brand new law. Until then, there was no law, and that's why it's possible, and we're making this ZID. To colleagues on the left: it is good to support us and not at second reading, because almost all the demands of the different branch organizations are being accepted at the moment and that is why we are doing this ZID. Your policy will be very inconsistent if what you wanted the last time is accepted and you do not support it. There are some small proposals that will be at second reading, but even they will be accepted because the people in the committee who said it themselves have been given the opportunity to give their proposals, to look at them and we are almost certain that we will accept them. So I think what you're saying as a position right now is wrong. In order to support the business that you so appeal for, it is necessary to give your support under this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u29	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Is there a third line? I can't see. Mr. Sabanov, do you have the floor for the doppelganger?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! To a BSP colleague, this is a first reading, a colleague. I don't know, if the law doesn't pass, how are we going to support the farmers? For example. To the colleague from GERB "is still the Law for amendment and supplement to an old law, so I do not see what the case was, but once again I say that this law must be supported. Between first and second reading you will have plenty of time. Besides, you've all been involved in the debate. People in all industries have presented to you their problems and will be so good to offer and the texts that bother them to be corrected and you will have this opportunity. So support it at first reading, so that next week, of course, we can review to committees what is proposed by each MP between first and second reading, and adopt this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u31	Thank you, Mr. Sabanov. We continue with the speeches. Any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches, colleagues. I'm closing the debate. We are going to vote on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the administrative regulation of economic activities relating to oil and petroleum products, No 902-01-65, submitted by the Council of Ministers. Vote 147 MPs: 131, against 3, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. We continue with the next item of our work programme: FIRST VOLUTION OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE VALUATE LAW. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor to introduce us to the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, first of all, a procedure for admission on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please let us vote in this Chamber for the following persons to be admitted: Mrs. Rositsa Velkova, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Georgi Alexandrov, Deputy Director of the Customs Agency, and Mrs. Tsetska Docheva, Head of the Department of Customs Intelligence and Investigation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u33	I shall put to the vote the motion for admission to the Chamber. Vote 120 MPs: for 119, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite those admitted to the courtroom. Procedure, Sir Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u34	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I propose that the period between first and second readings should be minimal in view of the expiry of the period until the 26th, to try to enter within that period, until which the Decree has been postponed and, respectively, the Law "three days between first and second readings." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u35	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. I don't see a reverse opinion. I put to the vote the proposed procedural proposal for a minimum period between the two readings of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the administrative regulation of economic activities relating to oil and petroleum products. Voted 103 MPs: 96, against 2, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please continue, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, your attention is ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Currency Act, No 902-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 December 2019. At a meeting held on 12 December 2019, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Currency Act, No 902-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 December 2019. The bill was presented by Mrs. Rositsa Velkova, Deputy Minister of Finance. Following a review of the current regulation, it has been found that there is a discrepancy between the provisions of the Currency Act and Regulation (EC) 1889/2005 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2005 on the control of cash imported and exported from the Community and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. A change in art. 11a, para. 2 of the Currency Act, which aims to refine the provision in relation to the implementation of lawful and effective monetary control. It is intended to be explicitly fixed in the Law the power of the customs authorities not to allow the transfer of money of 30 000 levs. or more, or their equivalent in another currency across the country's border to a third country, where information obtained by the customs authorities by official means on the existence of public obligations of the person is available. The draft act shall amend the provision of art. 18 of the Currency Act, as a violation of the provisions of art. 11a, para. Art. 1, 2 and 3 and art. 14a, para. 1 of the Currency Act, as well as the implementing regulations, provides for an administrative penalty of a fine of one fifth of the value of undeclared cash or precious metals and precious stones and goods with and from them if the act does not constitute a crime. The same punishment is intended to be imposed on the person who commits or allows to commit an infringement under art. 11, para. Art. 2 and 3 and art. 14, para. 2 and 3 of the Currency Act. The bill shall also provide for the subject of infringement under art. 18, para. 2 is concealed in a special way, the penalty being a fine of one quarter of the value of undeclared cash or precious metals and precious stones and items with and from them, if the act does not constitute a crime. The creation of a new t. 21 of § 1 of the Additional provision of the Currency Act in which the definition of the The draft act shall also provide for art. 20 of the Currency Act to be repealed, with which the Bulgarian legislation will be in accordance with the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union in respect of the withdrawal in favour of the State of the entire undeclared amount. The proposals made are in accordance with Articles 4 (2) and 9 (1) of Regulation (EC) No 1889/2005. The project aims to introduce a system for imposing effective, proportionate and dissuasive administrative penalties, as well as bringing national legislation into line with European law on the control of cash imported and exported from the European Union. Apart from the above, the draft proposed uniformisation of the designated legal competence in establishing violations of the Currency Act both on the external and on the internal border. In the light of the controls carried out by the customs authorities at the border of the country and the specific nature of the infringements of the carry-over of money and precious metals and precious stones and articles with and from them, the bill provides for explicit legal competence for the customs authorities to draw up the acts establishing administrative infringements under art. 18, para. 2, 3 and para. 7, p. 3 and 4 of the Currency Act as well as the provisions of Regulation (EC) No 1889/2005. It is also envisaged when the infringement has been committed by a person under art. 13, para. 1, the acts establishing administrative infringements under para. 6 and para. 7, p. 2 be drawn up by the authorities of the National Revenue Agency and the criminal decrees to be issued by the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency or by officials authorised by it, and not as so far as these acts should be issued by the Minister of Economy and persons authorised by it. Following the discussion, the members of the Budget and Finance Committee expressed their principled support for the bill so proposed, and its discussion ended with the following results: The Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to support a bill for amendment and supplement of the Currency Act, No 902-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 December 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Following is the Commission's report on monitoring revenue agencies and combating the grey economy and smuggling. You're welcome to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, ♪ I can't believe to the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling for First Voting on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Currency Act, No 902-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 December 2019. At its regular meeting held on 12 December 2019, the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and the Fight against the Grey Economy and Smuggling discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Currency Act, No 902-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 December 2019. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Ludmila Petkova, Director of the Ministry of Finance and Mrs. Tsetska Docheva, Head of the Department of Administrative Criminal Activity and Responsible Authorities. The bill was presented by Mrs. Petkova, who introduced the MPs to its objectives. The bill proposes amendments to the Administrative Penal Provisions, insofar as the administrative sanctions regulated therein are not sufficiently effective, proportionate and dissuasive, according to the opinion of the European Commission, issued in the course of criminal proceedings against the Republic of Bulgaria. The draft act aims to introduce an administrative liability system by means of penalties which are effective, proportionate and dissuasive, without the undeclared monetary amount being withdrawn for the benefit of the State. The provisions of the Monetary Law on Control shall also be brought into line with the provisions of Regulation (EC) No 1889/2005 and with the constant case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union in the field of sanctions in the event of non-compliance with the obligation to declare, when carrying over and from the border of money, precious metals and precious stones. In this way, the legal competence assigned to the establishment of infringements of the Currency Act is uniform, both on the external and on the internal border, given the controls carried out by the customs authorities at the border of the country and the specifics of infringements of transfers across the border of money, precious metals and gemstones, and the bill provides for explicit legal competence for the customs authorities to draw up the acts establishing administrative infringements. It is envisaged that, where the infringement has been committed by a person engaged in mining, processing and transactions in precious metals and precious stones and articles thereof, the acts establishing administrative infringements should be drawn up by the authorities of the National Revenue Agency and criminal decrees issued by the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency or by officials authorised by him. At present, the control of those persons, in accordance with the rules in force, is carried out by the authorities of the NRA. The proposed changes provide that the power of the customs authorities to prevent the transfer of funds of BGN 30 000 is to be explicitly enshrined in the Law. or more, or their equivalent in another currency across the border of the Party to a third country, where information obtained by the customs authorities by official means on the existence of public obligations of the person is available. After the discussion and the vote held: with 10 votes for a vote, 2 votes against a vote and 6 votes abstentioned, the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling proposes that the National Assembly adopt in first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Currency Act, No 902-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 December 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u39	Thank you, Mr. Tinchev. Following is the report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Here you are, Mrs. Mehmedova, to present the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, I present to your attention ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Currency Act, No 902-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 December 2019. At its regular meeting on 15 January 2020, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Currency Act, No 902-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 December 2019. The draft was presented by Mrs. Rositsa Velkova. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Nadalina Mladenova, Chief Expert at the Ministry of Finance and Mrs. Tsetska Docheva. The bill proposes a change in art. 11a, para. 2 which aims to refine the provision in relation to the implementation of lawful and effective foreign exchange control. It is intended to be explicitly described in the Law the power of the customs authorities not to allow the transfer of money of 30 000 levs. or more, or their equivalent in another currency across the country's border to a third country, where information obtained by the customs authorities by official means on the existence of public obligations of the person is available. The restriction is not contrary to Regulation (EC) 1889/2005 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2005 on the control of cash imported and exported from the Community and the rules of Union law governing the principle of free movement of capital. The European Commission has analysed the national authorities' responses and concluded that national legislation is not in line with the principles of non-discrimination, legal certainty and proportionality, as well as with the rules on the free movement of capital laid down in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. On 25 July 2019, the European Commission issued a reasoned opinion: "In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union: by maintaining, in its law, a system of criminal and administrative sanctions, under which in all cases a full withdrawal of undeclared cash is required, as well as the imposition of property fines or imprisonment, and which provides inadequately for certain thresholds for imposing property administrative penalties, the Republic of Bulgaria has not introduced a system for imposing effective, proportionate and dissuasive criminal and administrative penalties and has therefore failed to fulfil its obligations under Article 4 (2) and Article 9 (1) of Regulation (EC) 1889/2005 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2005 on the control of money imported and exported from the Community. Pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Commission is to invite the Republic of Bulgaria to take the necessary measures to comply with this reasoned opinion within two months of its receipt. Taking into account the clear, consistent and clear caselaw of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the interpretation of the provisions of Regulation (EC) No 1889/2005 and in so far as the administrative criminal provision of art. 18, para. 1 of the Currency Law differs from the composition of a crime under art. 251 of the Code of Penalty only under the objective criterion the value of the undeclared object is required to amend the administrative penal provisions of the Currency Act. The draft act shall amend the provision of art. 18 of the Currency Act, as a violation of the provisions of art. 11a, para. Art. 1, 2 and 3 and art. 14a, para. 1 of the Currency Act, as well as the implementing regulations, provides for an administrative penalty of a fine of one fifth of the value of undeclared cash or precious metals and precious stones and goods with and from them if the act does not constitute a crime. The same punishment is intended to be imposed on the person who commits or allows to commit an infringement under art. 11, para. Art. 2 and 3 and art. 14, para. Two and three. The bill shall also provide for the subject of infringement under art. 18, para. 2 is concealed in a special way the penalty to be a fine of one quarter of the value of undeclared cash or precious metals and precious stones and articles with and from them, if the act does not constitute a crime. It is also intended to create a new t. 21 of paragraph 1 of the Additional provision of the Currency Act in which a definition of the The draft act shall also provide for art. 20 of the Currency Act to be repealed, with which the Bulgarian legislation will be in accordance with the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union in respect of the withdrawal in favour of the State of the entire undeclared amount. The proposals made are in accordance with Articles 4 (2) and 9 (1) of Regulation (EC) No 1889/2005. An adequate determination of the amount of the fine shall be provided for part of the amount of the value of the subject-matter of the infringement. In the provision of art. 18a, para. 3 of the Currency Act provides for the acts for the identification of infringements under art. 11b, para. Art. 3 and Art. 14b, para. 2 to be drawn up by the customs authorities and the criminal decrees shall be issued by the Director of the Customs Agency or by officials of his office. In this regard, the proposed amendments to the Bill are proposed to align the designated legal competence in establishing violations of the Currency Act both on the external and on the internal border. The proposed changes shall be provided for where the infringement has been committed by a person under art. 13, para. 1, the acts establishing administrative infringements under para. 6 and para. 7, p. 2 to be drawn up by the authorities of the National Revenue Agency and to be issued by the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency or by officials authorised by the National Revenue Agency. The proposed changes to the draft act will not lead to an impact on the state budget. The expected results of the adoption of the proposed changes are the alignment of the rules on administrative criminal provisions in the Currency Act in accordance with the provisions of Regulation 1889/2005 and with the constant case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union in the area of sanctions in the event of non-compliance with the obligation to declare under art. 3 of Regulation (EC) No 1889/2005. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds proposed by 7 votes for the Council of Ministers and 2 votes abstention of the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Currency Act, No 902-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 December 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u41	Thank you, dear Mrs. Mehmedova. I'm opening the debate on the bill. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Currency Act. Vote 95 MPs: 90 against 4, abstention 1. The bill was passed at first reading. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE PUBLIC PRESENTATION OF PRINCIPAL SECURITIES. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 29 November 2019. There are several reports of committees. The first is the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Mr. Kanev, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u42	Colleagues, admission procedure. I propose on the grounds of art. 49 of our Rules of Procedure to be allowed in the House Evgeni Stoyanov "Deputy Minister of Justice."
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u43	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. We're voting on a tolerance procedure. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. Please invite Mr. Stoyanov into the room. Mr. Kanev, you have the floor to present the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u44	♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Offering of Securities, No 902-01-63, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 November 2019. At its regular meeting on 18 December 2019, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Offering of Securities. The draft, submitted by the Deputy Minister of Justice Evgeni Stoyanov, aims to introduce into the Bulgarian legislation the requirements of Directive (EU) 2017/828 of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2007/36/EC as regards the promotion of the long-term commitment of shareholders as well as measures for the implementation of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/1212 of 3 September 2018 laying down minimum requirements for the application of the provisions of Directive 2007/36/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the identification of shareholders, the transmission of information and the facilitation of the exercise of shareholder rights. The proposed amendments relate to: - identify shareholders in public companies, facilitate the exercise of shareholders' rights and protect the information transmitted in this regard; - a policy on the remuneration of members of management bodies in public companies; - transactions with related parties; - authorized advisors. In order to introduce the requirements of Directive (EU) 2017/828 relating to a policy of commitment and transparency in investing in public companies of so-called institutional investors, amendments to the Insurance Code, the Social Security Code, the Financial Instruments Markets Act and the Law on the Activities of collective investment schemes and other collective investment undertakings are envisaged. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: 17 votes for the draft, without abstention and abstention. On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, in the first vote, a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Public Offering of Securities, No 902-01-63, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 November 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. Next, a report from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Who's gonna introduce him? Mr. Gokov, you're welcome to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u46	♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Offering of Securities, No 902-01-63, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 November 2019. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at its regular meeting held on 15 January 2020, examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Offering of Securities, No 902-01-63, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 November 2019. The meeting was attended by Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov, Deputy Minister of Justice, who presented the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Offering of Securities. The proposed draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Offering of Securities (CIP) aims to introduce into the legislation of Directive (EU) 2017/828 of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2007/36/EC as regards the promotion of the long-term ownership of shareholders, as well as measures implementing Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/1212 of 3 September 2018 laying down minimum requirements for the application of the provisions of Directive 2007/36/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the identification of shareholders, the transmission of information and the facilitation of the exercise of shareholders' rights with a view to achieving full compliance of national legislation with the same. Directive (EU) 2017/828 introduces requirements for facilitating the exercise of certain voting rights of shareholders in companies based in a Member State whose shares are admitted to trading on a regulated market in the European Union (EU). Those shareholder rights are related to the right to information and voting when holding a general meeting of companies headquartered in a Member State whose shares are admitted to trading on a regulated market in the EU, facilitating the receipt of dividends and others. At the same time, in order to promote the long-term commitment of shareholders to these companies, provisions shall be introduced to facilitate communication between shareholders and companies and to introduce transparency requirements for institutional investors, asset managers and authorised advisers, remuneration of directors of companies and transactions between connected parties. In order to introduce the requirements of Directive (EU) 2017/828 relating to a policy of commitment and transparency in investing in public companies of so-called institutional investors, amendments to the Insurance Code, the Social Security Code, the Financial Instruments Markets Act and the Law on the Activities of Collective Investment Schemes and other collective investment undertakings are envisaged. In particular, Directive (EU) 2017/828 requires asset managers and institutional investors to adopt and publish a commitment policy and to make public how they have implemented it or to provide a reasoned explanation as to why they chose not to adopt such a policy and its inclusion in their investment strategy. In the case of delegation of portfolio management by an institutional investor, management companies, alternative investment fund managers and investment firms should disclose to the institutional investor how its investment strategy and its implementation comply with their arrangements and how they contribute to the medium and long-term performance of the institutional investor's assets. In view of the requirements of Directive (EU) 2017/828, an obligation to adopt and disclose a commitment policy and a pension insurance company managing a supplementary voluntary pension fund under professional schemes should also be introduced in which the company should describe how it includes the commitment of the fund to additional voluntary pension insurance under professional schemes as a shareholder of investment policy. As a result of the introduction of the amendments by the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Offering of Securities, it is expected to achieve an improvement in regulatory regulation, since ensuring the implementation of Directive (EU) 2017/828 and Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/1212 leads to a higher level of security and transparency of public companies and to a higher level of awareness of their shareholders. The bill contains provisions transposing European Union acts and therefore a reference is attached to its compliance with European legislation. After the end of the discussion and voting with results: 13 votes for........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ He proposes to the National Assembly to support a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Offering of Securities, No 902-01-63, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 November 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. The latest report, since the Committee on Budget and Finance does not have one, belongs to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Mrs. Mehmedova, please introduce him.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Offering of Securities, No 902-01-63, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 November 2019. At a regular meeting held on 15 January 2020, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Offering of Securities, No 902-01-63, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 November 2019. The bill presented Mr. Yevgeny Stoyanov, Deputy Minister of Justice. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Justice: Mr. Lyubomir Talev, Director of the Department of Law and Mrs. Liliana Gurova, State Expert at the Directorate of International Legal Cooperation and European Affairs and the Ministry of Finance: Mrs. Hristina Penditcheva and Mrs. Elena Petrova. The importers point out that the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Offering of Securities aims to introduce into the national legislation the requirements of Directive (EU) 2017/828 of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2007/36/EC as regards the promotion of the long-term ownership of shareholders, as well as measures implementing Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/1212 of 3 September 2018 laying down minimum requirements for the application of the provisions of Directive 2007/36/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the identification of shareholders, the transmission of information and the facilitation of the exercise of shareholder rights. According to the reasons of the Bill, changes are proposed, part of which are related to: the identification of shareholders in public companies; the remuneration policy of members of management bodies in public companies; the transactions with related parties and others. In order to introduce the requirements of Directive (EU) 2017/828 relating to the commitment and transparency policy in investing in public companies of so-called institutional investors, importers also propose amendments to the relevant sectoral legislation governing the activity carried out by those persons. Changes are provided for in the Code of Social Security, the Insurance Code, the Financial Instruments Markets Act and the Act on the Activity of collective investment schemes and other collective investment undertakings. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds unanimously proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Offering of Securities, No 902-01-63, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 November 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u49	Thank you, dear Mrs. Mehmedova. Let us move on to a debate on the bill. Are there any statements on it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! The proposed Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Offering of Securities aims to introduce legislation into the requirements of Directive (EU) 2017/828 of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2007/36/EC as regards the promotion of long-term shareholder engagement. The amendments to the Law on the Public Offering of Securities shall include: 1. Identification of shareholders in public companies, facilitating the exercise of their rights and the protection of information transmitted in connection with the exercise of their rights. In order to facilitate the exercise of shareholders' rights in public companies, including their identification and protection of the information transmitted, the Law on the Public Offering of Securities shall lay down provisions on the manner of requiring, providing and storing the necessary identification information for a shareholder, the persons to whom that information may be provided and the persons from whom the relevant information may be required. The establishment of a time limit for the storage of shareholder identification data in compliance with the European Personal Data Regulation is envisaged. In order to ensure the publicity of the corporate event organised by public companies and to provide the necessary information to all its shareholders, requirements are introduced to the Central Depository and investment firms to accept and provide information about the relevant corporate event. With the adoption of the newly established provisions, the disclosure of information in the public domain is improved and guarantees are created to reach the shareholders and other persons interested in the event. Amendments and additions to the provisions concerning general meetings of public companies shall also be introduced, in particular: in a unambiguous manner, the time when the documents for the convening and holding of the General Assembly should be disclosed; it shall be ensured that, when a shareholder votes electronically, his vote is confirmed and counted. It is necessary to require that the costs related to the transmission of information in the chain be non-discriminatory and proportionate to the services provided. 2. The remuneration policy of members of management bodies in public companies. The Law on the Public Offering of Securities and Regulation No 48 of 2013 of the Financial Supervision Commission on remuneration requirements currently regulate the remuneration policy in detail at national level. The Law proposes that the provisions relating to the shareholder's right to vote should be refined as regards the remuneration of the members of the management and control bodies of the public company. 3. Deals with related parties. The Law on the Public Offering of Securities contains the rules for the conclusion of transactions of disposal of assets to which a country is a public company, and there is accumulated regulatory and supervisory practice in Bulgaria, although so far the special regime of those authorising transactions has not been harmonised at European Union level. 4. Authorized advisors. The legal framework introduces the figure of an authorised advisor who, within the meaning of Directive (EU) 2017/828, is a legal person who analyses the disclosure, regulated and other information relating to public companies in order to provide research, advice and recommendations in relation to the exercise of investor voting rights. Obligations shall be introduced which the authorised advisor to investors has, namely publication on its website and updating of the information it publishes in the course of its main activity. The bill contains provisions transposing European Union acts and therefore a reference is attached to its compliance with European legislation. Transitional periods are foreseen to bring the debtors into line with the new requirements. The implementation of the proposed changes is not related to additional costs/transfers/other payments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u51	Thank you, Mr. Mihowski. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Offering of Securities. They voted 112 MPs: 112, no opposition and no abstentions. The bill was passed at first reading. That's what we've run out of this point. Moving on to point six: PROJECTS OF DECISIONS FOR CHANGES IN STANDING COMMITMENTS. We'll vote them one by one. One: Project! DECISION amending the composition of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Releases Stoyan Radkov Bojinov as a member of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. I shall put the motion for a decision to the vote. Vote 104 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Next: Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He released Julian Krastev Angelov as a member and vice-president of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad. Please vote on the proposal for a decision. They voted 102 MPs: for 102, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Next: Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition and management of the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Julian Krastev Angelov as member and chairman of the Commission for Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling. I'm putting this motion to the vote. 100 MPs voted: 92, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION completing the composition of the Committee on Legal Affairs The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Stoyan Radkov Bojinov as a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. I'm voting on the draft decision. They voted 101 MPs: 97, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. We are also running out of this item on the agenda. Let's move on to the next point..........................: ANNUAL COMMISSION REPORT ON THE REGULATION OF COMMUNICATIONS 2018 The Communications Regulation Commission is a importer 24 June 2019. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications has a Report. Who's gonna introduce him? Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If you allow me a procedure for admission to the Chamber on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. Please allow Ivan Dimitrov to be the Chairman of CRC; Neda Koycheva the Director of the Legal Department in CRC; Boryana Stoeva the Head of CRC, and Ms Andreana Atanasova the Deputy Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u53	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Please vote under the admission procedure. Vote 94 MPs: 92 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests. You have the floor, Mr. Letifov, for the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u54	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe on the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2018, No 920-00-16, submitted by the Communications Regulation Commission on 24 June 2019. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 27 November 2019, the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2018, No 920-00-16, submitted by CRC on 24 June 2019. The meeting was attended by: Mrs. Andreana Atanasova, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications; Mr. Ivan Dimitrov, Chairman of the Communications Regulation Commission; representatives of mobile operators and industry organizations in the field of electronic communications. The annual report was presented by Mr. Ivan Dimitrov. The annual report of the Communications Regulation Commission drawn up on the basis of art. 38, para. 1 of the Law on Electronic Communications, provides systematic information on services, markets and competition in the sector in 2018, trends and prospects of development, as well as a review of the regulator's activities. In his exhibition Mr. Dimitrov outlined the main trends in the development of the electronic communications market in the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018. According to data from the CRC register as of 31 December 2018, a total of 1120 companies have registered their intention to carry out public electronic communications activities and in one year their number has increased by 1.5%. In the performance of art. 5 of the General requirements for the implementation of public electronic communications received information from a total of 1010 enterprises. In 2018, 849 enterprises were active, with growth in their number compared to the previous year being 0.8%. In 2018, the total volume of the electronic communications market in Bulgaria amounted to 2,577 billion. BGN, with a significant increase of 5.5% compared to 2017. The total volume of the electronic communications market in Bulgaria and in 2018 is mainly determined by the revenues from voice services and data transfer services and/or Internet access. The share of voice telephone revenue retains its leading position in the total market volume and amounts to 46.7%. Secondly, data transfer and Internet access services occupy 34.4% of the total volume of the market. Mr. Dimitrov noted that in 2018. In addition, the Commission considers that the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and is incompatible with the internal market. lv. in the case of planned in 2017 The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. This data shows that the investments invested by enterprises in 2018 were 14.5% more than planned. In order to increase the effectiveness of the control activity related to the implementation of electronic communications in 2018, 3322 inspection checks were carried out. It was pointed out that particular attention was paid to compliance with the requirements of the Law on Electronic Communications with regard to the protection of public interest and the interests of end-users. In this regard Mr. Dimitrov stressed that in 2018 a major share of the checks were carried out on the three largest companies providing electronic communications services and are related to complaints from end users lodged in CRC concerning the services offered by them: Among the main priorities in the activities of the regulator and for 2018 was the effective allocation and provision of the limited resource........................................................................................................................................... In this regard, the CRC has conducted public consultations to provide the free resource in the 2 GHz and 2.6 GHz ranges and has prepared an analysis of the possibility of providing a 26 GHz frequency resource. After the presentation of the report a discussion was held. National Representative Ivan Valkov raised the issue of the construction of a 5G network in Bulgaria. In response, CRC President pointed out that the deployment of fifth generation networks will result from state policy and the implementation of a coordinated approach between all stakeholders. By mid-2020, a frequency resource procedure will be launched to enable mobile operators to start building 5G networks. With a view to stimulating their deployment and development, there is a change in the tariff to reduce the initial and annual fees for the use of the spectrum. An amendment to the regulations is also being considered in order to facilitate the regime for the construction of mobile stations. The discussion was attended by representatives of branch organizations who expressed satisfaction with their joint work with the Communications Regulation Commission. As a result of the vote held, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 12 votes for the Council and 8 votes abstention is proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: Project! DECISION adopting the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2018 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 17 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 90, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in connection with art. 38, para. 1 of the Law on Electronic Communications HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u55	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Would the importers like to say something now? Not yet. We're moving on to discussions. Are there any speeches? Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u56	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to do a brief analysis of the report presented just now. After a long period of decline in 2018 in the total volume of the electronic communications market in Bulgaria, measured on the basis of revenue, a significant increase of 5.5% compared to the previous 2017 is reported for the first time and its volume already amounts to more than 2 billion. The Commission therefore concludes In 2018, the largest share in the volume of this market continued to have the revenues from voice telephone services For another year the consumption of package services in Bulgaria is also increasing, with the total amount of realised revenue being just over 1 billion. lv. The projected trend of annual increase in demand and supply of package services significantly affects voice service consumption, mobile and fixed, and internet access services, also mobile and fixed, and distribution of retail radio and television programmes, determining the development of the market of electronic and communications networks and services for mobile voice services, and data transfer and internet access services. The consumption of a fixed voice telephone service continues to be characterised by a decline in 2018, while mobile voice service and mobile and fixed internet use have sustained growth. Typical for the Bulgarian mobile telephone service market in 2018 is still strong competition between mobile operators, and typical for the provision of data and access to the Internet is the presence of strong infrastructure competition and a large number of market participants who play a significant role in the development and trends of this market segment. The revenue from the provision of paid retail TV to cable, satellite and IPTV television increased by almost 18% compared to 2017, while subscribers had a significant increase of 11.3% compared to the previous year. The total number in the country crosses the border of 2 million, reaching 2 million and 30 thousand subscribers. In 2018, for the first time in years there was an increase in investments invested in the construction and maintenance of public and electronic communications networks, such as almost 90 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. more than the previous year 2017 They are engaged in networks for access to the next generation of ANNG networks. Finally, I would like to point out that the entry of 5G fifth generation networks is one of the most important steps ahead of us, which is linked to a new regulatory policy which creates a light conditions for the use of radio spectrum, facilitating the introduction of new digital technologies and services and promoting investment and competition in the market. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u57	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirchev. - What's the line? I can't see. Are there any other comments on the report? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2018. Vote 87 MPs: for 73, against none, abstention 14. The report has been adopted. Moving on to the next point: ANNUAL COMMISSION REPORT ON THE REGULLATION OF COMMUNICATIONS 2018 On the market of postal services, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. The report was submitted on 26 June 2019. Here you are, Mr. Letifov, to present the Report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on an annual report by the Communications Regulation Commission for 2018 supplied by the Communications Regulation Commission on 26 June 2019 At its regular meeting on 27 November 2019, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications examined the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2018. supplied by the Communications Regulation Commission on 26 June 2019 The meeting was attended by: Mrs. Andreana Atanasova Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mr. Deyan Duneshki, Executive Director of the Bulgarian Posts and Mr. Ivan Dimitrov Chairman of the Communications Regulation Commission. Mr. Ivan Dimitrov presented the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2018. "Analyse on the postal services market." The annual report of the Communications Regulation Commission (CRC) in the field of postal services for 2018 shall be prepared according to the provision of art. 17, para. 1 of the Postal Services Act. The report takes into account the state and development of postal services and includes systematized information about the market in the Republic of Bulgaria over the past year. The implementation of universal postal service quality regulations (UPS), the efficiency of services, the security of postal services, the consumer control activity carried out, as well as the development of postal services has been followed. The report states that as of 31 December 2018, the number of licensed postal operators, including the historical operator "Bulgarian Posts" EAD (BP), amounted to 28. 1 new individual licence has been issued for the provision of services under the scope of the UAP and 3 new licences for the provision of postal cash transfers (PUPs). The number of operators registered for non-universible postal services (NGOs) in 2018 amounts to 160, 14 of which are newly registered. At the end of 2018, the total number of postal operators reached 173, representing an increase of 2.4% compared to the previous year. In 2018, the total revenue generated by the services in the segment of the R & D segment reached 105 million. lv. and increased by 18% compared to 2017, while the increase in revenues in the NGO segment was significantly lower by 7.7%. The decline in revenue growth from the NAP according to licensed operators is due to the transfusion of shipments from the scope of courier services to the more economical version. The annual report noted that in 2018 the volume of the postal services market, measured by the indicator number of services rendered, amounted to 197 million. the number and, compared to the previous year, there was an increase of nearly 2.2%. It is also noted that in 2018, the trend of a decrease in the historical operator's market share continued, with the reported value reaching 12% of the total market, calculated on the basis of revenues from all postal services. As regards the provision of NAPs, the Report states that, on 31 December 2018, 172 postal operators who announced their intention to provide NAPs actually 73 provided NAPs and 57 declared that they did not operate during the reporting period. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. BGN, compared to 2017 grew by nearly 8%. The total revenue from the NAP segment shall also include the revenues from the service, which, according to art. 38, t. 4 of the LPD is a non-universal postal service. As described in the CRC Annual Report for the period considered, the NAP segment is mainly determined by the revenue from courier services, with 92% of the revenues in the segment being formed by courier services, with a significant part of them forming courier services for the country. According to the data summarised by the CRC, the reported revenues from the service "Pospital cash transfers" in 2018 amounted to 12.9 million. BGN, with this service holding a relative share of nearly 4% of the revenues in the NAP segment. The growth of IMP revenues is mainly due to the increased consumption of the service paid online. In 2018, the total number of processed consignments and services in the NAP segment was 155 million, with an increase of 3% compared to 2017. The annual report states that the revenues generated by the services included in the segment UPU amounted to 105 million. BGN, with an increase of 18% compared to 2017. According to the previous year in 2018 the following changes in the revenues of the market segment UPU are observed: - reporting growth in the revenues of the following postal consignments for the country.. correspondent consignments up to 2 kg, parcels up to 20 kg for the country. There is also an increase in revenues from mail to abroad by 2.3% of shipments with and without advantage and by 3.9% of shipments up to 31.5 kg; - decrease in revenues from printed works to 5 kg (which decrease by 9.4%) and in revenues from small packages to 2 kg, where there is a significant decrease (38%). It is also noted that the market share of the historical postal operator in the segment UPU in 2018 continues to decrease by 40%. Compared to 2017, the registered decline is nearly 7%. The annual report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2018 "Analysis of the postal services market" contains an assessment and an analysis of the existence of an unfair financial burden from the performance of the universal postal service and the preparation of the proposal for the amount of compensation from the state budget. The section of the Report states that in the implementation of the legal obligation to control compliance with the postal services regulations, the requirements for carrying out the UAP, the conditions for the implementation of the individual licences issued and the obligations of the operators carrying out the NAP in 2018 which are authorised under art. 95 of the CRC's AKP employees carried out a total of 354 inspection checks. A total of 78 acts for the identification of administrative infringements have been made, with the total number of criminal decrees issued being 59. Following the presentation of the Annual Report, the President of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications Mr. Letifov drew attention to the members of the Commission that a letter was received. No 920-00-17 of 11 September 2019 by the President of CRC, together with his attached Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2019. "Analyse on the postal services market." The letter relates to the corrected technical error made on p. 7, Table 3 of the Report. It states that the correction made after the technical error has been corrected in Table 3 does not require any precision and/or modification of the conclusions and identified trends in the analysis of the postal services market for 2018. The subject of discussion were the issues related to the financial situation of the Bulgarian Post Office, as well as the receipt of compensation from the state budget when the obligation to provide the UAP leads to net costs and constitutes an unfair financial burden for the company. There were also questions related to ensuring sufficient density of access points to the postal network and carrying out of UPUs throughout the country from Bulgarian Post Offices. During the debates on the Annual Report the MPs Georgi Svilenski, Dimitar Danchev and Nikolay Tishev took part. As a result of the vote held, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 11 votes for the Council and 9 votes abstention is proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: Project! DECISION adopting the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2018 "Search market analysis" The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 17 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 90, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in connection with art. 17, para. 1 of the Postal Services Act HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2018. "Analyse on the postal market. " - Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u59	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. I'm opening the debate on the report. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u60	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'd like to do a brief analysis of the postal services market. An engine for the development of the postal market is e-commerce. Every year the market for postal services in Bulgaria notes growth, which is measured by the indicator. The revenues from the delivery of postal services amounted to 10% in 2018 compared to 2017, and its volume at the end of 2018 reached 467 million. lv. In 2018, the total revenue generated by services in the universal postal service segment reached 105 million. lv. and increased by 18% compared to 2017, while the increase in revenues in the non-ubiquitous postal services segment was significantly lower by 7.7%. The structure of the postal market is mainly made up of revenue from courier services, the main share of which is over two thirds of the realised revenue, followed by the revenues of Christmas consignments and the revenue from written mail. The provision of the universal postal service is of general economic interest. It is provided by Bulgarian Post Offices on the basis of the obligation imposed by the Postal Services Act, which is why it is provided for Bulgarian Post Offices to receive compensation from the state budget, which leads to net costs and constitutes an unfair financial burden of the operator. In the exercise of his powers under art. 29a, para. Art. 3 and Art. 29b, para. 5 of the Postal Services Act The Communications Regulation Commission annually prepares proposals for the amount of unfair financial burden that it addresses to the Minister of Finance with a view to including it in the draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for the next financial year. For the past 2018, the amount of compensation proposed by the Communications Regulation Commission for the financial year 2017 amounts to 21 million. 449 thousand. BGN determined on the basis of an assessment of an independent auditor. The increase of 22% compared to the compensation for 2016 according to Bulgarian Posts is due to an increase in the amount of net costs due to the maintenance of the network and increased staff costs. In 2018, the realised revenues from the overall activity of Bulgarian Posts do not again cover the costs of operator duties, and the data from the financial statements of companies even indicate that the financial result in 2018 is a loss. The market position of Bulgarian Posts is weakening by each year and in 2018 the trend continues and the share of the company reaches 12% of the total market, calculated on the basis of revenues from all postal services. The postal network of the Bulgarian Post Office has not been restructuring since the beginning of the liberalisation of the postal market since 2011. According to the data of the Bulgarian Post Offices as of 31 December 2018, the number of post offices of the operator amounted to 2980, of which 639 are urban and 2341 are rural. In 2018, the Bulgarian Post Office did not submit proposals or notifications to the Communications Regulation Commission for changing the number and location of the points of access to its mail network. Finally, I would like to analyse the report and make the following main trends in the development of the postal market in recent years. The expansion of e-commerce is the main driver for the development of the postal services market. There is a transition from the traditional model of the postal market oriented towards the sender to the postal market oriented towards the recipient. There has been a decline in the consumption of traditional postal services, acceptance, transport and delivery of correspondent consignments up to 2 kg, small packages up to 2 kg and printed works up to 5 kg. There is an increase in domestic and international parcel consumption. There is an increase in competition and an annual decrease in the market share of the historical postal operator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u61	Thank you, dear Mr. Milushev. The word for speech is Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2018 On the market of postal services, I and my colleagues from BSP in the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications made a number of unfavorable findings regarding the state postal operator. Bulgarian Post reports a decrease in the market share of the company in non-university postal services and part of the courier services where the company, unfortunately, gives up a share to private competitors. It is said that the company has taken the appropriate measures, but somehow we remember how last year the government proposed the closure of the post offices of Bulgarian Post Offices in small towns. Only thanks to the proposal made by Mrs. Dora Yankova from the group of BSP for Bulgaria. The failure to operate in these settlements certainly means the loss of more market share and on the market. The report noted a lag in the share of Bulgarian Posts in postal cash transfers, where traditionally Bulgarian Post Offices has always been a leader. It is explained that this is due to the way in which payment is taken into account for some of the private postal operators. If that is the only reason, then I expect colleagues from the Bulgarian Post Office and the Ministry of Transport to propose urgent changes in the regulations to clear this problem. A problem with reporting turns out that there is also a problem with the universal postal service. Once again, we are told that there is a reporting of non-universible postal services by private operators as a universal one. I also hope that this year will be changed, including, of course, with the assistance of the Ministry of Finance, because, as you know, there was a problem with the Regulation on Value Added Tax. There it became clear that the universal postal service is the only service that is exempt from value added tax and for all other postal services, VAT should be charged, thus not being reported as universal services, which, again, unfortunately, is currently happening. That is why I turn from this tribune to the Minister of Transport and, of course, to the leaders of the Bulgarian Post Office to offer us the necessary changes and, of course, a plan to urgently overcome the negative trends for the state enterprise. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u63	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Panchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear guests! Immediately after the Liberation of Bulgaria in 1879 as one of the first state institutions was the establishment of Bulgarian Post Offices. Now, 140 years later, in a huge number of settlements the representation of the state, if you count the mayor as such, are the mayor and Bulgarian Post Offices. In more than 2300 small settlements Bulgarian Post Offices are the main link with the state. Unfortunately, the huge number of employees, the huge number of operators that have been created in recent years, the great competition that there is, and the possibility of the new operators to choose the services, and the Bulgarian Post Offices to do all that there is no one to do is the serious problem before the Bulgarian Post Offices and the provision of sufficient means to support the Bulgarian Post Offices. What the state does and supports Bulgarian Posts as a state structure with funds is necessary to continue to do if we really want to maintain the relationship of people from the country with close, state institutions, abroad and so on. Unfortunately, in the new modernized environment in Bulgaria it is very difficult to support if there is not enough money to introduce a new technique. In order to have the prospect to have a future in the activities of Bulgarian Post Offices, it is necessary to make modernization for the provision of electronic services that it needs, of course. Where post offices cannot be kept, because this is probably what will happen, it is good for Bulgarian Post Offices to have mobile stations in order for the population to be able to receive such a service. In the last one or two months I see that there is an opportunity for partnership between Bulgarian Post Offices and Customs something that would be well accepted by our citizens. If the work improves a little bit and the specialists from the Bulgarian Post Office get acquainted with this activity and perform this work more efficiently because there are complaints that late shipments are being lost, this is really a good opportunity for Bulgarian Post Offices for another new segment in these services and a good perspective for the post office activity. Otherwise, the state needs to continue to care, to help the people "Bulgarian Post Offices" have been working for 140 years to enable even in the smallest towns to have the opportunity for this service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u65	Thank you, dear Mr. Panchev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I hereby close the debates and move on to voting on the draft decision, read by the President of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, adopting the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2018. "Analyse on the postal services market." They voted 119 MPs: 82, against 13, abstention 24. The decision's been made. With this, we have exhausted this item on the agenda. Moving on to the next point: THE LAW FOR THE OIL ROZE.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u66	"Chapter 6" is the Council of Ministers of the Rose. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for the name of the subdivision: "Chapter 6 "Successful service in the field of rose production. Advisory Council on the Rose. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 16: Art. 16. (1) The scientific services in the field of rose production shall be carried out by the Institute of Rose and Essential Fat Cultures, by scientific organizations and universities in the country, as well as by other natural and legal persons whose activities are related to the production and/or processing of essential fat and healing crops. (2) An Advisory Council on Oil Rose shall be established to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. (3) The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests shall, by order, designate the composition of the Advisory Council, which shall include representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, the Ministry of Health, organizations of rose producers, rose processors and traders of oil rose products. (4) The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall be the Chairman of the Advisory Council or the Deputy Minister authorised by him. (5) The Advisory Council shall: 1. prepare opinions and recommendations for the solution of problems in the rose production and rose processing sector; 2. make proposals and advise the conduct of state policy in the field of rose production and rose processing; 3. where necessary, express opinions on draft regulatory acts based on analysis and impact assessment; 4. establish industry standards for good manufacturing practices; 5. adopt an annual report on the situation of the sector including proposals for measures to conduct an integrated state policy. (6) The Advisory Council shall be convened by the Chair or at the request of one third of the members of the Advisory Council who shall propose the agenda of the meeting. (7) The Advisory Council may be assisted by committees or working groups. (8) The members of the Advisory Council shall not receive remuneration for their work in the Advisory Council. (9) The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall, by order, establish rules on the activities and organisation of the Advisory Council. .. Head.. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u67	Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the name of Chapter Six, the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 16, and the text of the importer for the name of the division Chapter........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ They voted 102 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u68	Under art. 17 has a proposal from the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs: seven is out of the question. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 17: Art. 17. (1) Control under this law shall be subject to: 1. the creation of plants of oil rose; 2. the eradication of plants of oil rose; 3. the production of oil rose products intended for food production; 4. sites for the production of oil rose, distillation and other plants and facilities for the processing of oil rose colour; 5. compliance with the requirements laid down in technological documentation in national or industry standards in the production of oil rose colour products; 6. use of the name "Bulgar rose oil" (PGI) when used in the presentation, labelling and/or advertising of cosmetic products, chemicals and mixtures, medicinal products or medical devices. (2) The control under para. 1, t. 1 shall be carried out by the Executive Agency by variety testing, acrobation and seed control according to the requirements of the Law on sowing and planting material. (3) The control under para. 1, t. 2 is carried out by the respective municipal agriculture services. (4) The control under para. 1, t. 3 shall be carried out by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency under the Food Law and Regulation (EC) No 882/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on official controls performed to ensure the verification of compliance with feed and food law and animal health and animal welfare rules (OB, L 165/1 of 30 April 2004).). (5) The control under para. 1, t. 4 and 5 shall be carried out by the district offices of......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (6) The competent units under the Rules of Procedure of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall supervise the activities of the control bodies under para. 2... 5........................................................................... (7) The control under para. 1, t. 6 is carried out by the Minister of Health through the competent control bodies under the Health Act, the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, the Law on Medical Devices and State Health Inspectors according to their powers under the Law on Protection from the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes. (8) For the implementation of the control under para. 1, t. 6 the control bodies of the Minister of Health interact with the control bodies of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. The terms and procedure of the interaction shall be governed by rules established by a joint order of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u69	Colleagues, speeches? Mrs. Bachvarova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u70	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Our proposal, which we have made, is that this paragraph should be dismissed because it is so that for the Bulgarian rose there are not one, not two, but five control bodies that must constantly control their activities. Starting from the Executive Agency by variety testing, acrobation and so on, which must monitor the certified and seeding material, but this agency is doing this work for all permanent crops and we are recording it here specifically in the Law that it must do its job for the rose. Municipal agriculture services will do checks accordingly, but they will do checks on what we have submitted and will not want to make registration. The Food Safety Agency has its responsibilities for foods based on the use of the rose. The State Fund is a common foundation for support, as well as all other permanent plantings, that is, you have nothing different, but the State Fund is involved in the entire system of control that they have to carry out. Finally, on top of that, the Ministry of Health. I don't understand what we're doing all this to those who are going to deal with the oil rose. Once they see how many control bodies will visit them within two or three months, because this is the period in which this check will be done, I do not know who will stay to work and deal with this industry at all! You do understand that control activities lead to sanctions?! They go to control to find some problems, and the sanctions are not too few either. We have therefore proposed that this paragraph should, in principle, be removed because all these control bodies carry out these activities on a general basis for all products, for all activities that are in agriculture, and we do not need to sign it the way it is presented in the Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. - What's the line? Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal by the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. They voted 103 MPs: 41, against 18, abstention 44. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 17. They voted 102 MPs: 68 against 5, abstention 29. The motion is accepted. Dear Members of the National Assembly, an exhibition dedicated to the 30th anniversary of the establishment of the Association "SOS Children's Villages Bulgaria" will be opened in the Northern lobby. For more than a quarter of a century, the SOS Children's Villages of Bulgaria has provided a family and a healthy environment for the development of children deprived of parental care. All MPs are invited to the opening. Thirty minutes off the job. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u72	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our work. Please continue with art. 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u73	Under art. 18 has a proposal from the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs: "18" is off the table. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 18: Art. 18. (1) Control under art. 17 shall be carried out by carrying out: 1. planning checks; 2. out-of-plan checks: (a) on the basis of an assessment of the risk associated with the rose producer and/or the rose processor or the plant for the production of oil rose colour products; (b) where planned inspections show non-compliance with the conditions of registration, other regulatory requirements or the existence of prerequisites for environmental and human health hazards; (c) after assessment by the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry or by the Minister of Health as appropriate; (d) in the event of an alert to a competent authority under art. 17. (2) The checks under para. 1 shall be carried out in the presence of the inspected person or his representative and may include: 1. on-the-spot checks of plantations of oil rose and/or of points of purchase of colour from oil rose; 2. inspections of the facilities for the production of oil rose products, distillation and other plants and facilities for processing the colour of oil rose and storage rooms; 3. an assessment of the conformity of the actual condition of the plantings and of the production sites of oil rose products with the entry in the register; 4. sampling and carrying out analyses in accredited laboratories; 5. verification of the documents relating to the production, buying and processing of the colour of oil rose. (3) The head of the relevant control body by order shall designate the verifiers and the scope of the verification. For the result of the verification, a consolidated report shall be drawn up in two copies of the report per person checked and for the control body concerned. Chapter 8 of the Administrative Procedure Code shall apply to outstanding issues of alerts. (4) When exercising their control powers, officials shall be entitled to: 1. access to the plantations of oil rose and to the sites for the production of oil rose colour products; 2. to require assistance from persons who grow an oil rose and produce a colour from an oil rose, as well as from persons who produce oil rose products; 3. require documents relating to the plantings, the production and processing of the colour of the oil rose, and to receive copies thereof. (5) When carrying out the checks, the persons examined shall be obliged to: 1. provide access to the plantations of oil rose and to the sites for the production of oil rose products; 2. assist and do not hinder the work of officials; 3. provide the exquisite documents under para. 4 t. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u74	Statements? Mrs. Bachvarova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u75	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Our proposal is that the control relating to six checks should be dropped. Why? Firstly, because, as I mention several times, we have a situation in which state structures at the Ministry of Agriculture have their commitments by law, but now especially for rose producers we have several checks. The first one is planned, that is to say, you don't want to, you'll have a plan check. Then there are out-of-plan checks. They are linked on a risk-based analysis at the discretion of the Minister of Agriculture when there is a discrepancy... We have already stated in the previous texts of the Law that when a document is submitted, a declaration of plantings and the intention to keep them and accordingly the variety structure, the municipal office will carry out a check and on the basis of this check will correct the registration!? These checks are all carried out in such a way that these rose producers will receive huge subsidies each month, so the State Fund of Agriculture on a risk-based basis and all other structures will do what is necessary to assess whether they comply with technology, whether they work on technological maps, whether they collect the colors from a rose for a certain period of time. It seems to me that from such an extremely heavy administrative burden the administration will be burdened at times to prove the same thing that this pink array has existed for 30 years that it is Rosa Damascen and it produces pink color. We therefore propose that this paragraph be dismissed with the idea that there is still hope that there will be some logic in legislation and proposals to be justified on the basis of the real situation, both in production and in the realization of pink color. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u76	Thank you. - What's the line? Any other speeches? Let's move on to the vote. I will put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. They voted 108 MPs: 30, against 22, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted. I am now putting to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u77	Vote 107 MPs: 85 against 9, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u78	"Chapter Eight" - Administrative Penal Provisions. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. Under art. 19 has a proposal from the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs: Art. 19 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 19: Art. 19. (1) Who produces a colour of oil rose as an economic activity without being entered in the register under art. 3, is punished with a fine of 500 to 1000 BGN. (2) When the infringement under para. 1 was committed by a legal person or a sole trader, a penalty of 3,000 to 5000 BGN is imposed. (3) In case of repeated infringement, the fine, respectively the penalty shall be three times the fine under para. 1 of the financial penalty referred to in paragraph 1 respectively. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u79	Statements? I can't see. I first put to the vote the importer's text on the name of the division supported by the Commission. Vote 105 MPs: for 103, there is no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. They voted 107 MPs: 30, against 33, abstention 44. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 19 on the Commission report. They voted 104 MPs: for 86, against 1, abstention 17. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u80	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 20: Art. 20. (1) Who processes the colour of oil rose as an economic activity without being entered in the register under art. 3 or in an object which is not listed in the register shall be punished with a fine of 3,000 to 5000 BGN. (2) When the infringement under para. 1 was committed by a legal person or a sole trader, a penalty of 5000 to 10 000 BGN is imposed. (3) In case of repeated infringement, the fine, respectively the penalty shall be three times the fine under para. 1 of the financial penalty referred to in paragraph 1 respectively. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u81	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 20 on the Commission report. They voted 106 MPs: for 89, against 6, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u82	Under art. 21 has a proposal from the National Representative Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs: Art. 21 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 21: Art. 21. (1) Whoever submits false information or false data for entry in the register under art. 3, when the act does not constitute a crime, is punished with a fine from 500 to 1500 BGN. (2) When the infringement under para. 1 is committed by a legal person or a sole trader, a penalty of 1500 to 3000 BGN is imposed. (3) In case of repeated infringement, the fine, respectively the penalty shall be three times the fine under para. 1 of the financial penalty referred to in paragraph 1 respectively. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u83	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u84	Madam President, honourable Members! A penalty for falsely submitted data is envisaged. It's theoretically and practically impossible. Why? Because when you log in, you file documents. These documents are official, related to information about the area you are processing, location, location, natural and legal person respectively. You practically apply the documents. Once you submit these registration documents, the municipal agriculture office comes to the ground and finds out if this is true. Finally, we find again, in some form we will find that there will be false data or documents submitted. That's not gonna happen. And how do we punish for falsely submitted data on condition that there is a whole process in which we declare that the data is true and that the register has entered the really accurate documents that we have requested? Therefore, our proposal is that this penalty for falsely filed documents be dropped, because if everyone has done their job, it is simply pointless, it cannot happen. But the penalty is again... And that's 500 BGN?! How about all sanctions in such a border we walk from BGN 500 to BGN 1500.? Who estimates and why would estimate it 500 or 1500 for individuals? You see, there's no penalty that doesn't fit that size! There are more severe sanctions that are really mandatory if you do not submit documents for registration, you may have a penalty. But for the fact that there are false data and you lied, it seems to me that it does not respond and it is not possible to do so. That's why we're suggesting that the penalty in this area is dropped.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u85	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. First, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. They voted 109 MPs: 25, against 22, abstention 62. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 21 on the Commission report. Vote 101 MPs: 82 against 14, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u86	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 22: Art. 22. (1) Who, in violation of Art. 1. 10, para. 1 organizes buying or buying color from oil rose, is punished with a fine of 500 to 1000 BGN. (2) When the infringement under para. 1 is committed by a legal person or a sole trader, a penalty of 1000 to 1500 BGN is imposed. (3) In case of repeated infringement, the fine, respectively the penalty shall be three times the fine under para. 1 of the financial penalty referred to in paragraph 1 respectively. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u87	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u88	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, just now Professor Bachvarova in art. 21 raised the question precisely about this sanction for rose producers from 500 to 1500 BGN. Why, how is it determined, why is it such a big difference? Now suddenly in art. 22 for those who actually buy out, i.e. the more serious players, the fine is from 500 to 1000 BGN. Well, is that fair, do you think that's fair? That is why we say again that if we look at the Law, two thirds are only in sanctions and in some checks! Let there still be a principle. It is true that in art. 2 in the Commission... Here she is honored by the President of the Commission Maria Belova that she still returned it once for consideration and accepted the word "Supporting," where the administration refused... But when there is no law, in fact the Rose Producer Assistance Act, we, at one point again for the larger players, the ones who buy, process, the fine is from 500 to 1000 BGN. That is why I am making a procedural proposal: or at least this fine should be BGN 1500 in order to have some justice at least a little bit or to be dropped.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u89	What's the paragraph?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u90	This is art. 22, para. 1, the fine shall be from 500 to 1500 BGN. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u91	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote, first, Mr. Georgiev's editorial proposal in art. 22, para. 1 fine to be from 500 to 1500 BGN. Vote 108 MPs: 34 against 14, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 22 on the Commission report. Vote 104 MPs: 83 against 16, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u92	Under art. 23 has a proposal from the National Representative Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs - Article 23 is dismissed. [[Noise and lines.]] The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 23: Art. 23. (1) A rose producer which, in violation of art. 9 did not notify the municipal agriculture office of the plants of oil rose which it has established and/or eradicated, shall be punished with a fine of 100 to 500 BGN.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u93	Colleagues, please, it's very noisy in the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u94	When the infringement referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article is committed, the competent authority of the Member State concerned shall inform the other Member States of the infringement referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article. 1 was committed by a legal person or a sole trader, a penalty of 500 to 2000 BGN is imposed. (3) In case of repeated infringement, the fine, respectively the penalty shall be three times the fine under para. 1 of the financial penalty referred to in paragraph 1 respectively. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u95	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote, first, the unsupported proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. [[Noise and lines.]] They voted 102 MPs: 25, against 23, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 23 on the Commission report. They voted 102 MPs: 80, against 18, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u96	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 24: Art. 24. (1) Whoever violates the requirements of art. 10, para. A fine of BGN 500 to BGN 1000 is punishable by a fine of BGN 500 to BGN 5. (2) When the infringement under para. 1 is committed by a legal person or a sole trader, a penalty of 1000 to 5000 BGN is imposed. (3) In case of repeated infringement, the fine, respectively the penalty shall be three times the fine under para. 1 of the financial penalty referred to in paragraph 1 respectively. 2. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 25: Art. 25. (1) Which in the labelling of a product of oil rose color violates art. 11, para. 9, is punished with a fine of 1000 to 2000 BGN. (2) When the infringement under para. 1 was committed by a legal person or a sole trader, a penalty of 2000 to 5000 BGN is imposed. (3) In case of repeated infringement, the fine, respectively the penalty shall be three times the fine under para. 1 of the financial penalty referred to in paragraph 1 respectively. 2. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 26: Art. 26. (1) who performs activity in an object which does not meet the requirements of art. 12 is punished with a fine of 500 to 1000 BGN. (2) When the infringement under para. 1 is committed by a legal person or a sole trader, a penalty of 1500 to 3000 BGN is imposed. (3) In case of repeated infringement, the fine, respectively the penalty shall be three times the fine under para. 1 of the financial penalty referred to in paragraph 1 respectively. 2. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u97	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u98	Mrs. Chairman! Dear colleagues, I understand that the interest is so great that the noise in the Chamber is incredible and whatever we present to you as logic under the Law is clearly not perceived. You just have to put yourself in the place of those who will produce the pink color. Just imagine the situation and then surely everything that is written will seem extremely sad to you for the adoption and voting in the parliament of this bill. We don't have a proposal under art. 24, but I would like to draw your attention to the following hypothesis. We're sanctioning someone because of the fact that no pink purchase contract has been signed. What is the logic of the market economy? Okay, we're gonna have to make them a contract, but who's gonna be responsible for not signing a contract? In any case, rose producers or farmers prefer to have contracts. There should be a quantity in them, if there can be a price, a method of payment. This is their request, but most often the reason not to enter into a contract is in the strong side, i.e. the I would like to ask: with this text from the Law, which we penalize, which violates the requirements not to enter into a contract, we punish with a fine from 500 to 1000 BGN, how will you determine which is the guilty party? In any case, the rose processors will probably be surrounded, but the rose producers, like the weak side of the chain, will be sanctioned. For us, the penalty for not signing a contract, putting it into obligation, seems absurd and will cause a lot of problems. And just such an institution to establish the absence of a contract, with five agencies and structures that will be supervised, no such structure is recorded in the Law. Who's gonna find out why it wasn't a contract?! We're offering to drop it. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u99	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of Articles 24, 25 and 26 on the Commission report. Vote 110 MPs: 83, against 18, abstention 9. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u100	Under art. 27 has a proposal from the MP Prof. Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. Twenty-seven out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 27: Art. 27. (1) Whoever violates the requirements of art. 18, para. 5, is punished with a fine of 100 to 500 BGN. (2) When the infringement under para. 1 is committed by a legal person or a sole trader, a penalty of 200 to 1000 BGN is imposed. (3) In case of repeated infringement, the fine, respectively the penalty shall be three times the fine under para. 1 of the financial penalty referred to in paragraph 1 respectively. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u101	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova. They voted 108 MPs: 46, against 22, abstention 40. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 27 on the Commission report. Vote 110 MPs: 88 against 17, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u102	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 28: Art. 28. (1) It shall be punished with a fine from 1000 to 5000 BGN. person who falsified or presented falsely as rose oil originating in the Republic of Bulgaria product: 1. which is produced from oils originating in other countries; 2. in which the rose oil originating in the Republic of Bulgaria is replaced by oils originating in other countries and/or to which oils originating in other countries and/or synthetic ingredients are added. (2) When the infringement under para. 1 is carried out by a legal person or a sole trader, a penalty of up to 10 per cent of the annual turnover shall be imposed if no more severe penalty is provided. (3) When the value of the acquired as a result of the infringements under para. 1 may be determined, a fine shall be imposed on the person, a corresponding financial penalty, up to the double amount of the gain. (4) In the event of a repeated infringement, the fine, respectively, shall be three times the amount of the fine, respectively, of the penalty under para. 1.... 3.............................................................. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 29: Art. 29. (1) Whoever violates the prohibition under art. 11, para. 13, is punished with a fine from 1000 to 5000 BGN. (2) When the infringement under para. 1 was committed by a legal person or a sole trader, a penalty of 5000 to 10 000 BGN is imposed. (3) In case of repeated infringement, the fine, respectively the penalty shall be three times the fine under para. 1 of the financial penalty referred to in paragraph 1 respectively. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u103	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. Art. 28 and Art. 29 on the Commission report. Vote 112 MPs: 87, against 18, abstention 7. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u104	Under art. 30 has a proposal from the National Representative Prof. Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. 30 out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 30. Under art. 31 has a proposal from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova and a group of Members of the National The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 31: Art. 31. (1) The violations of art. 19 " 28" shall be established by acts drawn up by officials of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, the Executive Agency by variety, acrobation and seed control and by the municipal agriculture services authorised by order of the respective managers. (2) The penalty decrees for violations under para. 1 shall be issued by the respective heads of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, the Executive Agency by variety, acrobation and semecontrol and the regional...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u105	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, you see, we have been watching the Oil Rose Act for the second day. An hour, perhaps by the nature of the bill itself, two hours, penalties, violations, fines. Note: "Art. 30. For other violations of this law guilty persons are punished with a fine of 100 to 500 BGN. or with a penalty of 500 to 1000 BGN, if no more severe penalty is provided. Okay, can someone in this room come out and tell us what these other violations are under this law? So far we've determined how many types of violations we have, and now suddenly art. 30. That's why we offer art. 30, which is unnecessary, drop out. It doesn't make any sense, understand. That doesn't make any sense! This may have remained somewhere while being prepared between first and second reading documents, and suddenly art. 30 for other violations. If anyone in this room can come out and tell us who these other violations are. Look, there is one principle: the reproduction of industrial capital is different from the reproduction of agriculture. There's no way in this bill we can impose a penalty after a penalty. This is why I am making a proposal which Professor Bachvarova and a group of MPs and I have made. 30 is redundant, and dropped out. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u107	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. They voted 112 MPs: 38, against 23, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 30. They voted 102 MPs: 80 against 19, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs concerning art. 31. They voted 114 MPs: 33, against 31, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for art. 31. Vote 112 MPs: 87, Against 19, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u108	Under art. 32 has a proposal from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova and a group of Members of the National Assembly. 32 out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 32. Under art. 33 has a proposal from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova and a group of Members of the National The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 33: Art. 33. The establishment of infringements, the issuance, appeal and execution of criminal ordinances shall be carried out in accordance with the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u109	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs concerning art. 32. They voted 107 MPs: 13 against 33, abstention 61. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 32. They voted 106 MPs: 84, against 2, abstention 20. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs for dropping out of art. 33. They voted 108 MPs: 31, against 32, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 33. They voted 109 MPs: for 85, against 4, abstention 20. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u110	Under art. 34 has a proposal from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova and a group of Members of the National The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 34: Art. 34. (1) The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests, the Ministry of Health, the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, the Executive Agency by variety of trials, acrobation and semecontrol and the district departments.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (2) The information under para. 1 shall be published in summary form under the conditions of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (OJ L 119/1 of 4 May 2016). or where publication would cause excessive damage to the persons concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u111	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs for the dropping of art. 34. They voted 108 MPs: 40, against 23, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 34. They voted 112 MPs: for 85, against 3, abstention 24. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u112	"Additional provision'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. Under § 1, there is a proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs: The following amendments shall be made in Additional provision § 1: 1. Points 1 and 2 are out. 2. Point 4 is out. 3. Points 13 and 14 are out. The Commission supports the proposal to drop out. 1 and does not support it in the rest. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... For the 1. The rooting of plantations by the Rose is the complete removal of all the above ground parts of the plantations with the rose oil, including roots, and the cleaning of the area of plant residues. 2. It is a rose of the species Rosa Damascena Mill and Rosa alba L., grown on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. 3. The plantation is a plantation of roses up to and including one year of age (from planting of seedlings to the beginning of flowering). 4. The product manufacture unit is a production site that has the necessary equipment for processing the colour of the rose. 5. Product of rose blossoms are rose oil, pink, pink absolute, pink water and dried pink, obtained from rose blossoms. 6. Pink water is a product obtained by water or water vapour distillation of a colour of a rose with a rose oil content of not less than 0,025 per cent. 7. Pink specifics is a product obtained by extracting fresh colour from a rosé with a non-volatile solvent. 8. "Rose' is a product obtained from the extraction of pink specific with ethyl alcohol at negative temperatures. 9. The rose oil is essential oil obtained by water and steam distillation of the colour of the rose oil according to national or branch standards in the Republic of Bulgaria. 10. "Rosaud' is a person who, as a business activity, produces products of rose oil colour in his own, employed or used on another legal basis, a plant for the production of rose oil products. 11. "Rosauds" is a person who, as a business activity, grows a rose and produces a color from a rose. 12. The flowering phase is the flowering period that begins from the appearance of the first completely dissolved flower of the rose and continues until the blooming of the last color. 13. The flower of the rose is half-blossomed to a completely bloomed fresh flower of the rose (hard buds, blossoms and whitening leaves are excluded).
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u113	Hey, guys, any speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the division. They voted 111 MPs: 111, no opposition and no abstentions. The offer is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs in its unsupported part. They voted 112 MPs: 30, against 27, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 1. Vote 115 MPs: 111, against 3, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u114	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for the name of the subdivision: 'Concluding provisions'. Proposal by the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs: the following point is inserted after point 4a (Commission ..................................................... Within six months of the entry into force of the law, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall issue the ordinance under art. 4, para. 4............................................................................................ The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... (1) Within one month of the entry into force of the law, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall confirm: 1. samples of documents under the law; 2. instructions for the creation and maintenance of the information databases under § 3, para. 3. (2) The samples and instructions under para. 1 shall be published on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u115	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the name of the section "Concluding provisions." They voted 118 MPs: 87, against 15, abstentioned 16. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. They voted 114 MPs: 41, against 32, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 2. They voted 111 MPs: 86, against 5, abstention 20. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u116	According to § 3 a proposal from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs: In § 3 of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. (1) Within one year of the entry into force of the law, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall establish and implement the public register under art. 3. (2) The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall, by order, set the date of the entry into force of the register under art. 3. The order shall be published on the Ministry's website no later than 14 days before the date of its entry into force. (3) Until the entry into force of the register under art. 3 Municipal Agriculture Services shall establish and maintain information databases in which the relevant rose producers, rose processors, plantations for the production of oil rose products and oil rose plantations are entered under the law. The information from the databases is published on the website of the respective district........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ (4) Within one month of the entry into force of the register under art. 3 The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall provide official entry into it of information, documents and other data from the information databases under para. 3. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ (1) By 30 June 2021, identification of existing areas with oil rose plantations shall be carried out at the date of entry into force of the law. (2) The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry or officials authorised by him by order shall appoint committees to carry out the identification under para. 1. The committees shall include representatives of the Executive Agency by variety testing, acrobation and seed control, the Institute of Rose and Essential Fat Cultures and representatives of the respective Regional Directorate of Agriculture. (3) The identification of the areas with plantations of the oil rose shall be carried out in a phenophase flowering after an on-site inspection carried out in the presence of the owner or his representative. (4) For the result of the verification under para. 3 The relevant committee shall draw up a consolidated report on a template containing information on the area and location of the plantations and type of oil rose. The minutes shall be served on the owner and on all members of the committee. The Protocol is an official document certifying the type of oil rose. (5) The owners of the plantations shall keep records of the origin of the seed material and the protocols under para. 4 for a period of 5 years. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-16.u117	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 3; the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 4, and the text of the importer for § 5. Please vote. Vote 117 MPs: 90 against 1, abstention 26. The proposals have been adopted, and we have concluded the second vote of the Law. Parliamentary control announcements on 17 January 2020, Friday: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov will answer a question from the MPs Desislav Chukolov and Pavel Shopov. 2. Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov will answer a question from the MPs Nikolai Tsonkov and Anton Kutev. 3. Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer one question from the MP Dora Yankova. 4. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva will answer two questions from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Vesela Lecheva; and Violeta Jeleva and Nadia Klisurska. 5. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer a question from the National Representative Dimitar Georgiev and a question from the National Representative Ivo Hristov. 6. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov will answer a question from the National Representative Rumen Gechev and a question from the National Representative Dora Yankova. 7. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer a question from the MP Krasen Krastev. 8. The Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will answer a question from the MPs Alexander Simov and Nikolay Tsonkov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev to two questions with a written answer from the MPs Krasimir Yankov; and Georgi Gokov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister for Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva, to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mariana Nikolova "to two questions from the MPs Pavel Shopov; and Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to a question written by the National Representative Krasimir Jankov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Desislava Taneva to a question written by the National Representative Krasimir Jankov; - the Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Krasimir Jankov; - Minister of the Interior Mladen Marinov to a question by the National Representative Vasil Antonov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to a question written by the National Representative Krasimir Yankov; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Krasimir Jankov; - the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to three questions from the MPs Georgi Mihailov, two questions; and Milko Nedyalkov; and to one question with a written answer from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov. For lack of respectable reasons, the MP Dora Yankova is postponed to ask the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev. Due to the use of annual leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Culture Boel Banov will not participate. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mariana Nikolova will not participate. In connection with a personal change to the Council of Ministers, voted by the National Assembly on 15 January 2020, the unanswered questions asked to the liberated Minister Neno Dimov, the MPs will receive corresponding oral and written answers from the newly elected Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov. According to parliamentary practice, the newly elected Minister of Environment and Water will be given time to get acquainted with the questions asked, to prepare and update the answers already drawn up, to shape them according to their views and to plan for parliamentary control in plenary on 24 January 2020, Friday. Next regular plenary session on 17 January 2020 at 9.00, according to the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
