ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, we continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR THE ADMINISTRATIVE REGULLATION OF PRODUCTION AND TRADE WITH OPTICAL DISCLOSURES, MATRICIES AND OTHER OBSERVERS OF THE AWAKE LAW AND HIS Related RIGHTS. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 20 January 2020. First vote was adopted on 12 February 2020. Point one for today. Here you are, Mrs. Peeva, to introduce us to the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u2	Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please allow Mr. Rumen Dimitrov to be admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u3	Please vote on admission in this Chamber. Vote 185 MPs: 173, against 3, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Invite the guest to the hall. Here you go, Mrs. Peeva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u4	"Report on a Draft Law amending the Law on the Administrative Regulation of Production and Trade in Optical Discs, Matrixs and other media containing copyright and related rights objects, No 002-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 January 2020. ............................................... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u5	Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u6	..and adopted in the first vote on 12 February 2020. The Act amending the Law on the Administrative Regulation of Production and Trade in Optical Discs, Matrixs and other media containing copyright and related rights. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u7	Statements? I can't see. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the Law. They voted 164 MPs: 156, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u8	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u9	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, supported by the Commission. Vote 167 MPs: 162, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u10	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 words and certificates under art. 4 and the registration carried out under art. The words "licensings', certificates or registrations are replaced by "licensings of responsibility'.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u11	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 4 of the Commission Report. Vote 160 MPs: 156, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u12	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u13	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for paragraphs 5, 6 and 7, supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u14	Vote 154 MPs: 150, none, abstention 4. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u15	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 44, para. 1 the words "receipt', "reporting' and the comma in front of them are deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u16	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer for § 8; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 9; and the text of the importer for § 10. Vote 152 MPs: 148, none, abstention 4. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u17	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u18	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer for paragraphs 11, 12 and 13. They voted 146 MPs: 143, none, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u19	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u20	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer for paragraphs 14, 15 and 16. Vote 149 MPs: for 147, against none, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u21	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19: "Seriously, I'm Paragraph 1 of the Additional provision shall make the following amendments: 1. Points 5, 6, 9 and 10 are repealed. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 11 words.............................................................................. The Commission shall be 3. Point 14 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u22	Thank you. Statements? Colleagues, I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer for paragraphs 17 and 18 and the version proposed by the Commission for § 19. Vote 127 MPs: 125, no objection, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u23	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20: .................................................................................. Annex 2 to art. 40, para. 4 is amended as follows: "Acceptance No 2' is followed by a table. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 21: .................................................................. Annex 3 to art. 40, para. 5 is amended as follows: "Acceptance No 3' is followed by a table.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u24	Thank you. Statements? I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 20 and the form of Annex No 2 shall be annexed to the Commission Report; and the version of § 21 proposed by the Commission shall be annexed to the Commission Report. They voted 143 MPs: 141, none, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u25	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The proceedings for registration and issue of certificates under the repealed Chapter 2 shall be terminated until the entry into force of this Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u26	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision and the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 22. They voted 139 MPs: for 139 against and abstentions there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u27	Proposal by the MP Radoslava Chekanska, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 23: ..................................................... Since the entry into force of this Act, the registers certified for 2020 under art. 40, para. 4 and 5 column 3 shall not be filled in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u28	Are there any speeches? I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 23 with a text on the Commission report. They voted 133 MPs: 132, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u29	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. (1) The Ministry of Culture shall, for a period of 5 years from the entry into force of this Act, keep the applications with the documents attached to them, the control copies and the registers of the repealed Chapter 2. (2) After the expiry of the term under para. 1 the control specimens of the repealed art. 19 shall be destroyed in the presence of the interdepartmental commission of art. 31. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24, which shall become § 25.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u30	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission of § 23, which shall become § 24; and the text of the importer for § 24, which shall become § 25. They voted 129 MPs: for 128, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted. That's how we finished the Law. Thank you, Mrs. Peeva. Let's move on to the next point: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE TRADE REGISTER AND THE REGISTER OF LEGAL PERSONS WITH A UNSTAPANIAN TARGET. The representatives of the People's Representative Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs. Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor for a declaration on behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! According to the National Statistical Institute's calendar exactly one week ago the results of the statistical research were published on 5 March, namely the data on Bulgaria's gross domestic product, the revised data, and on 19 October the revised final data for 2019 will be published, which is normal practice every year. The National Statistical Institute came up with its revised assessment of the growth of the Bulgarian economy from 3.5 to 3.4%, which is not at all in line with the prophesies of the Bulgarian Socialist Party only 0.8% growth of the Bulgarian economy for 2019. In 2019, gross domestic product amounted to 118 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible Recalculated in euro is 60 billion respectively. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. EUR, with 8678 euros per Gross domestic product for 2019 according to preliminary data increased in real terms by 3.4% compared to 2018. The financial bomb thrown by BSP expert Rumen Gechev that the growth of the Bulgarian economy is below 1% sent us not only to the queue of economic development in Europe, but also returned us to the endless waiting room of foreign investors and high credit rating. Moreover, Mr. Gechev put a black mark on Bulgaria that we are lying to our strategic partner in the face of the European Union. From BSP you rely on the short memory that people have forgotten how in your government the state went bankrupt in the late 1990s [[Radio, lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] , hyperinflation, closure of more than 20 banks and over 200 enterprises, three dollar pensions. This, my colleagues, is your sin. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Needless to remind you that credit rating and income were then comparable to those of the poorest African countries, while in February 2020, the European Commission pulled us off the list of countries with economic imbalances. World credit agencies reaffirmed their expectations for growth and positive outlook for the Bulgarian economy and the rise in Bulgarian incomes, and the government confirmed their efforts and work on our measures for our entry into the Eurozone waiting room. Consciously or due to lack of awareness, the prophesying of the BSP proved to be another false news, contradicted by real, official data and analysis.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u32	They and the others were official, Sasho!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u33	I will not comment on the approach that the red experts had chosen to make their calculations of gross domestic product, namely the cost approach, and helpful to their conspiracy theory that the data were manipulated, had forgotten the second method used to cross the data, namely production. It is based on the added value achieved, my fellow Members, with the following logic, the greater the economic activity, the more income from taxes. There could be only an exception if all the added value of the economy is realized in the grey sector. This is probably why red economists are running from export data and reading data only for consumption and import. But unfortunately for the red economic theory, the data on significant reduction of the gray sector in Bulgaria in recent years are not only the pride of the governments of Borisov confirmed by Brussels, but are assessed by independent agencies. The record low levels of cigarette smuggling and other excise goods are a fact with which the Bulgarian economy, the Bulgarian state and the revenue agencies can be proud. One more thing. How is there more income than taxes, colleagues, if we don't have an economic upsurge?! How do we have increased turnover and production of goods and services, and we do not have a higher gross domestic product?! Here the red economic logic is deafeningly silent. It is understandable that the figures of the National Statistics for raising salaries and production of Bulgarian goods and services are not in line with the theory of BSP. They clearly show that the growth of gross domestic product in Bulgaria has increased by more than 3% in recent years, which is why Bulgaria is also among the top five countries in the European Union. You can't deny to your colleagues on the left that they are skillfully juggling data. Statistics are yet to change the initial data for the expired year and this will take place gradually until we see the final data only at the end of the autumn. And like every year, this one is expected to have a minimum deviation of plus or minus. This is not news, and I don't know who tricked BSP's leadership into saying that news can be made out of this. However, data juggling should not be used to undermine trust in Bulgaria, to denigrate it to our economic partners, to denigrate it to investors. It's something no politician should forgive himself. Why BSP's claim on data manipulation by National Statistics could create irreparable economic damage to the country's image found and commented many economic experts and analysts in recent weeks. But this, colleagues, reminds me of the false news that the currency board is falling in Bulgaria. It also reminds me of the scenario in which it was said that in Sofia the water is not suitable for drinking, even worse it was mentioned by some colleagues that it is poisonous. I also remind you of the false news about the TV set, I also remind you of the false news that Bulgaria is not ready and will not hold its European Presidency. I remind you! I, my fellow Members, called you from this tribune that after the release of the data on 5 March, if your apocalyptic predictions are not fulfilled, you should come out and apologize from the stands of the National Assembly. Will you do it today?! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Colleagues on the left, you don't do it for a week. And here, if you apologize, it turns out that you have uttered untruths from the stands of the National Assembly. If you don't apologize, now it turns out that you manipulated society and public opinion with an attempt to manipulate the media, which, fortunately, did not succumb to this manipulation, and tried to manipulate investors consciously. For a little media attention, colleagues, you have put the entire Bulgarian economy at risk the growth of citizens' incomes, growth of pensions, investments in Bulgaria. [[Private applause from GERB.]] Good for you! Even without being in the government, you are a threat to the Bulgarian economy. [[Laughter and excitement.]] Consciously or unconsciously, you have done so, colleagues from BSP. Classic! Their pensions and income and growth are guaranteed by us, and their low start was guaranteed by you. Please don't do this again! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u34	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. On behalf of a group, come in, Professor Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u35	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We accept your invitation and respond as follows: First, the National Statistical Institute acknowledged to the whole of Bulgaria, as well as the Bulgarian National Bank that 4 billion. BGN, to be exact, 3 billion. 900 million. lv. not taken into account from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2019. After our declaration, after our declaration suddenly found this 3 billion. 900 million. lv. At an official press conference of the NSI and apologized that customs documents were delayed by 28 days, sometimes up to two months. Honourable Members, are 28 days between 1 January 2019 and January 2020?! Who hides the customs documents from the National Statistical Institute?! Why the National Statistical Institute for the whole of the business, Bulgarian and foreign, writes that consumption is 460 million. BGN, and it turns out it's over 4 billion. Lev?! For what reason is there a year and something to distort the picture of gross domestic product and growth?! And after they admitted that our calculations were accurate to 1 lev, suddenly the National Statistical Institute, in order to get out of the situation, came 950 million. lv. new investments. Are these investments slowing down for 28 days?! What's going on with them? [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Then, a billion and a half increase in consumption. This consumption when it was seen on 1 April 2020. Oh, yeah?! Exports suddenly, oh heavens, have increased by a billion and a half! In other words, this is called tarnishing in Bulgarian. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We haven't accounted for 4 billion, we're reading another 4 billion! So all over Bulgaria, colleagues have found out that those involved in economic analysis and the business that the Bulgarian public has been misled, and deliberately. They admitted that there were 4 billion missing after our statement. Secondly, as regards the different sectors, how they developed in Bulgaria, how you fought corruption and the grey economy with cigarette business. My fellow Members, these five factories have gone out to Dobrudja for cigarettes by accident, five factories have come out, secrets that your mayors have not seen, hundreds of trucks coming in and out. How will they see them?! They're shortsighted. They should go for an eye exam. They didn't see them! [[Laughter and excitement.]] After that, you didn't see, you didn't see, but your Prime Minister saw it. lv. The gambling's gone. Oh, heavens, once again there is no one billion leva from several companies to one person. What about the whole sector? And your representatives on the Gambling Commission are very cute. They take their salaries as deputy ministers, as head of directorates, take their wages at the Gambling Commission and file martenitsas in white envelopes because one billion leva, instead of going to the Bulgarian hospitals and schools, go into your pockets. This is your report. I'll tell you the fifth time you talk about dollar courses. Dear colleagues, I would like you to raise this issue more often because you have chosen the financial team, which is a wonderful team of the government Videnov, for management of the Bulgarian banking system. Dimitar Radev, a wonderful economist recognized by the World Bank, is the head of the bank and you chose him. Minister of Finance of Videnov you elected him Head of Banking Supervision! Well, have a nice day. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u36	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. We continue with the Committee on Legal Affairs Report. Mrs. Ilieva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u37	Dear Mr. Chairman! Before I introduce you and introduce my colleagues to the Commission report, I would like a procedure based on art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I request a procedure for admission in the hall of Mrs. Gabriela Kozareva, Executive Director of the Registry Agency, and Mr. Kiril Chakarov, Director of the Registration Officers Directorate.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u38	Thank you. I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 108 MPs: 103, against 2, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please invite the admitted persons to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u39	♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Commercial Register Act and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities, No 054-01-18, submitted by Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov and a group of MPs on 27 February 2020. At its meeting held on 4 March 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities, No 054-01-18, submitted by Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs on 27 February 2020. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Justice: Mr. Danail Kirilov Minister; Mrs. Gabriela Kozareva, Executive Director and Mrs. Kiril Chakarov, Director of the Department of Registration and by the Ministry of Finance: Mrs. Natalia Cherneva Head of Accounting Law and Mrs. Mariana Marinova Chief Expert at the Department of Accounting Law and by the National Revenue Agency: Mrs. Boryana Georgieva Director of the Department of Accounting and Mrs. Tsvetelina Yankova Head of the Department of the Department of. The bill was presented by Mr. Tzipov, who pointed out that it aims to reduce the administrative burden on the business and creates a legal opportunity for the implementation of a Centralized Administrative Information System through the introduction of a single entry point. He added that the development of e-government is a priority laid down in the updated Strategy for the Development of Electronic Governance in the Republic of Bulgaria 2019 - 2023, adopted by Council of Ministers Decision No 546 of 2019. The draft law proposes to improve and facilitate the services of natural and legal persons for the submission of annual financial statements and annual activity reports in the Commercial Register to the Registry Agency, ensuring the possibility to apply for the acts under art. 38, para. 1, 3 and 5 of the Accounting Act by means of a single entry point. Its introduction will ensure the integration of information systems and comprehensive use of data from the National Statistical Institute, the National Revenue Agency and the Registry Agency, where the accounts are submitted, thus making the applicants unload from the obligation to submit them in three different locations. Mr. Tzipov clarified that the bill introduces complex administrative service to the enterprises while reducing the financial burden by dropping the obligation to pay a state fee for announcing the annual financial statements and the annual activity reports. The Minister of Justice expressed his support for the Bill and added that it aims to reduce the administrative burden of enterprises and optimize the process of processing the acts and circumstances to be entered and announced. Mr. Kirilov added that the bill was discussed in a working group at the Ministry of Justice, which was attended by all interested institutions, MPs, business representatives and employers' organizations. Mrs. Kozareva added that the draft will allow complex use of the data from the National Statistical Institute, the National Revenue Agency and the Registry Agency and will improve the working processes, thus providing more quality and easily accessible services for the business. The Ministry of Finance indicated that they support the proposed amendments and additions to the Law. Members of the National Assembly Maria Ilieva, Dimitar Lazarov and Krum Zarkov took part in the discussion. Ms. Ilieva and Mr. Lazarov expressed their support to the Bill and stressed that the submission of the annual financial statements on the activities of the enterprises is one of the most used administrative services and the proposed texts will facilitate the activity of the enterprises. In response to Mr. Zarkov's question Mrs. Kozareva added that the proposed provision providing for the regularity of the convening and holding of a general meeting for the adoption of the annual financial statements and the annual activity reports to be certified by the applicant will favour the activities of the enterprises and will release human and financial resources committed to preparing the documents proving the adoption of the decision. It clarified that this approach will ensure the timely processing of applications for the announcement of the acts to be entered, which is a prerequisite for the implementation of the project for the construction of a single entry point and the introduction of a Centralised Administrative Information System. As a result of the vote, the Committee on Legal Issues with 14 votes for the Council, with no opposition to the European Parliament and 5 votes, abstentions proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities, No 054-01-18, submitted by Krasimir Georgiev Tsipov and a group of MPs on 27 February 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u40	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ilieva. An importer's opinion........................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! The adoption of the Bill is related to the need to reduce the administrative burden on business and to create legal prerequisites with the introduction of the Centralized Administrative Information System "A Single Entry Point" for the submission of annual financial statements, statistics and integration with the National Revenue Agency, the National Statistical Institute and the Registry Agency. This will allow complex use of the data from the relevant institutions, improving their work processes to provide more quality and easily accessible electronic services for business. As the submission of the annual financial statements is among the most commonly used administrative services in the country, with the establishment of the Centralised Administrative Information System, a single entry point will be reduced the administrative burden for business by saving time and resources for businesses and individuals and reducing their workload and eliminating duplication of the information submitted. At present, undertakings are obliged to submit to the Registry Agency part or all four references from the Annual Financial Statement to be submitted to both the National Statistical Institute and the National Revenue Agency. The annual financial statements shall also be accompanied by additional documents demonstrating the acceptance of the annual financial statement and the annual activity report, such as invitations to convene general meetings of traders, protocols and evidence of the return of calls to convene the general meetings and others. With this, we burden business because, on the one hand, the same information is provided several times to several institutions and, on the other hand, the requirement to present documents proving the regularity of the convening and holding of a general meeting and its decision to adopt the Annual Financial Statement and the Annual Activity Report troubles businesses, especially from the categories of micro-enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises in terms of the time, human and financial resources to be invested. Colleagues, last year's total number of applications was around 800 thousand. Over 500,000 of them are annual financial statements. You can see that this represents well over 50%. At present, from 2016, when the last raw financial statements entered into the Agency are up to a million and 300 thousand. With 120 registration officials, you understand that this huge volume of applications will require a long period of time for their processing. This is the reason why these provisions need to be adopted quickly, because the 2020 campaign started on 1 January. The sooner these texts are adopted, the sooner they will enable both traders to submit their documents in the new order and the staff of the Registry Agency to consider in the new order and to process the applications received and available at the time. The order by which these applications are submitted and examined, respectively, the annual financial statements are entered into the Information System of the Commercial Register, is set out in several locations.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The systematic interpretation of these provisions shows that the Accounting Act requires that the Annual Financial Statement be adopted by the Authority for the relevant form of a company that has the power to accept that statement, i.e. under the Law. The Commercial Register Act and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities also does not require those documents, depending on the type of trading company, to be part of the trader's account, i.e. the so-called announced acts, because the information system of the Commercial Register contains circumstances and announced acts. The annual financial statement shall not be audited by the General Assembly, but shall simply be accepted as a result. In other words, what ensures that the Annual Financial Statement contains all the props and meets the requirements of Law is the auditor's signature. Whether the General Assembly is held in the appropriate order, whether shareholders or partners are familiar is not something that registration officials can examine or prove. This is the reason why we are focusing solely on a declaration under art. 13, para. 4 as each of the interested parties has the opportunity to bring an action under the Commercial Law to challenge the decision taken by the General Assembly. Also in the declaration which applies to the application under art. 313 of the Penal Code, criminal liability may be sought. According to the roadmap for implementation of the Strategy for the Development of Electronic Governance in the Republic of Bulgaria, which is for the period 2019 - 2023, the Registry Agency is the responsible institution for the relevant priority measure for the implementation of the Centralised Administrative Information System. The owner of this system will be the Registry Agency responsible for the technological provision, secure collection and storage of the information entering the system. The envisaged legislative changes aimed at the implementation of the Centralised Administrative Information System will lead to direct impact on citizens and businesses by optimizing the processes of data exchange, accessibility and publicity of the information. After the introduction of the Centralized Administrative Information System, a single entry point will improve and facilitate the service of the natural and legal persons in the performance of their duties to the Registry Agency, the National Statistical Institute and the National Revenue Agency, respecting the integrated approach of the repeated use of the information provided by them in the state administration, and will reduce the financial burden for the enterprises by dropping the state fee for announcing the acts under art. 6, para. 3 of the Commercial Register Act and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u42	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u43	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable officials who are attending the meeting! Another example of the practice is the legislation of gallop. I will not tire of noting every single law which does not comply with the elementary requirements for a sufficiently broad discussion. And for this one, I will only draw your attention to the following: The Law was introduced on 27 February 2010, examined in the Legal Commission several days later... on 4 March, less than 15 days later is in the Chamber.................................................................................... the Law, which has 10 paragraphs, nine of which enter into force on 1 January 2022......................................................................................................................................... Of course, for this little time there was not much opinion from the various interested parties. It was one of the Treasury Department. It has been uploaded to the National Assembly website twice, but this does not make two opinions. It's one opinion, the same. It supports the bill in its part, which Mrs. Alexandrova spoke about, namely the establishment of a legal framework for the implementation of the Project for a Single Entry Point, which will enable the same documents not to be submitted to different institutions. Of course the Ministry of Finance will support this measure. We support it, all normal people support it, as far as common sense is concerned and the overall effort to reduce administrative burdens. But this concerns nine paragraphs that will enter in a year and a half. For the tenth paragraph, which will enter immediately, there is not a word in the opinion of the Ministry of Finance or in what was just said by the representatives of the importers. By the way, Mr. President, and I address you however as a person who has to monitor the processes in this institution, dozens of bills have come with motives to reduce the administrative burden. And all of them, when they were well prepared and came from the Council of Ministers, were unanimously supported. Why, I ask, a bill which, according to the importers themselves, and as it became clear to the Legal Commission, was made in an interdepartmental working group, in the offices of the various ministries, not submitted by the Council of Ministers, but was submitted by a group of MPs? Why are you looking for this fast track? There are several options. One option is that not all ministries agreed with this thing and the working group was not united on it. Another option is, and it quite often happens that the Council of Ministers somehow does not want to get wet. See if there's gonna be a scandal. If there's a scandal, it's the bad MPs. If there isn't a scandal, okay, there's already what they've prepared. But get to the point. The only paragraph that will soon enter into force if the Law is adopted is § 5, which is in the Transitional and Final Provisions and according to which the fact that certain acts laid down in the Accounting Act, namely the annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements, annual reports and other acts of the companies concerned, are adopted by the General Assembly. This fact, if this text is adopted, will be certified with only one declaration. In other words, the officials of the Registry Agency will not have the responsibility and task of checking whether such a general meeting really took place. On the one hand, I understand the arguments of the Registry Agency, which say that they are overwhelmed by these reports, there is a problem in the speed of their processing and do not have enough power to see whether such general meetings actually exist or not. On the other hand, however, we need to know that the purpose of the registration check must check, in addition to regularity and eligibility, for a certain entry and its authenticity. The problem we have with this text is that we do not see how it will solve the big problem with the delay in the entries, but we doubt that it can cause problems in establishing the authenticity of a given circumstance, namely that the corresponding report has been adopted by a general meeting. And since we could not discuss it well enough, since we did not have time to hear all the opinions, I appeal to the importers or to the representatives of the Registry Agency to come out on the stand and take clear responsibility by the first person that the adoption of this text will not eventually create prerequisites for the publication of genuine data in the Trade Register. This guarantee should be an absolute prerequisite for the support of this law, and it could have been made in a much more transparent and qualitative way.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u44	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? Any other speeches? Mr. Mitev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will express a slightly different opinion from what was just said. It is clear that in the main part of the bill, the main idea is to submit annual financial statements electronically. The only dispute arises possibly with regard to § 5 of the Bill, but here we have to say a few things with regard to this paragraph. First, and so far, the posts of the Registry Agency are not able to examine and verify everything in depth................................................................................................. They will not examine and make handwriting experts on the signed signatures as to whether the General Assembly has been regularly convened. Let us not forget that this production is not security, it is a register production in the Trade Register. There's a difference. If it were a security production, yes, then it would have been necessary to conduct such an inspection, but the production is not security, it is registered. Even with the current arrangement, even if § 5 is not supported at second reading, I do not know why some guarantees are required here. After all, at the second reading, if it evaluates the Legal Committee and finally the plenary, this paragraph will not be adopted and will be rejected. This is not the main objective of the Bill and I think this has become clear in the debates in the Legal Commission. Even if § 5 is adopted, let us not forget that there is still one text in our Penal Code. 313, which clearly states that everyone has a criminal responsibility for false data, facts and circumstances which have been declared to a state authority as this case is. That is, who has allowed himself to submit a declaration which has false information that the relevant financial statement, that the relevant annual activity report has been adopted in violation of or is not genuine, or is falsified, he will be liable for criminal charges. So I do not see a place of concern regarding § 5. I don't think there was any discussion. On the contrary, there was a discussion at the Legal Commission. Even before the precautionary measures were imposed, all interested parties were able to participate, so I call on you to support this bill. Of course, the debate will continue at second reading, and ultimately the Legal Committee and the Chamber will decide whether § 5 should be adopted or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u46	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? We will continue with the speeches Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, indeed here is problematic this § 5. Just to remind you that in 2016 you introduced a change to the Commercial Law in art. 137, para. 4 I think it was in which it is explicitly written that they are certified by a notary certification of the signature and the content of the decisions of the General Assembly "One of these decisions is an example of the choice of governor and his remuneration. Why did you make this change in 2016? Due to the increased and numerous abuses in the Trade Register, the so-called theft of companies, of companies, the announcement of acts not by the importers themselves, by the owners of the companies or by their representatives, by the respective managers or directors. With these motives, you've made these changes. Now the exact opposite of what you adopted in 2016. No one can guarantee that the annual financial statement, based on which it works afterwards, monitors and checks for the firm's own financial file and the National Revenue Agency will, for example, be real and correct, but will not be a fake, annual, financial statement on the basis of which the consequences of counterfeiting of such a document in the Commercial Register will be very difficult not only for the company itself, but also for third parties who have any interaction with this company, including the state. As far as the Criminal Code is concerned, yes, it is, and is currently, acting. And at the moment, declarations are issued according to the order of art. 313 of the Penal Code, but the procedure itself, driving the procedure, going to court, waiting for a judgment, waiting for a sentence, it takes a long time, on the one hand, during which time the Commercial Law, as you suggest, will be in force, will act and the possibility of abuse will grow immensely much. In Bulgaria at the moment, after you made the capital of the companies 2 leva, many companies were created, which is not bad in general. But, the possibility of embezzlement in the trade turnover with these companies, you are currently opening this door quite wide. Moreover, in the Commercial Law in the next para. 5, I think it was, in art. 137 we have written down that these contracts, namely the decisions of the General Assembly, which are not with a notary certification of the signature and the content, their vice is so severe that they are insignificant. They did not give rise to any legal consequences, they are not destructive, they are insignificant. And right here in the opposite direction you make these amendments, and none of you, by importers, or by those who will adopt the bill, can guarantee that they will not honor the abuse of the annual financial statements, for example, which should be announced in the Commercial Register. So I call on my fellow Members, at least the lawyers, who are also hard-thinking not to support these amendments, which have indeed been made, as if, from the introduction itself, it seems that they have been made legless, quick, in two days literally, and will indeed have severe consequences, which on top of that are not public knowledge, are not publicly discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u48	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Are there any lines? We continue with the speeches. Are there any speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Today we are discussing an important bill for both business and legal persons and individuals. The main objective is to reduce the administrative burden, this is an undisputed fact. The benefits of adopting the Bill and implementing it will indeed be visible in a little more than a year and a half, only in the discussion that has developed so far we have not heard serious opinions against the adoption of the Bill. We have heard speeches that there is a problematic paragraph that this must lead to an extremely serious discussion in order to achieve the wishes of the plenary, all folks' ideas and the whole society's result. Dear Members of Parliament who spoke earlier, this idea arose a few years ago. It has been discussed for nearly a year in a working group that has included representatives of both employers' organizations and of the involved ministries and departments. Yes, the legal basis for establishing this centralised information system must be created, but once this legal basis has been created, this project, honourable Members, must be implemented. This is not a project that can be implemented in a few weeks or in a few months. This is a complex automated information system that will be extremely busy and if the project is not implemented properly, we will see things that we have often seen back in time in terms of both the Trade Register and other complex information systems. Therefore, honourable Members of Parliament who have just spoken, there is a need to adopt the Bill, perhaps within a month at most, in order to be able to implement this project, to review all the important elements of it in order to achieve this result that awaits the whole society. Regarding the declarations you also spoke about. Yeah, there's a lot of affidavits. Yes, the officials of the Registry Agency other than with annual financial statements, except with entries in the Trade Register, except with other commitments on a daily basis at the present time, must also work on the construction of this automated information system. But this is a step that we need to take to alleviate this administrative burden which is the subject of this bill so that the applications can be processed more quickly so that the declarations can be submitted more quickly. This is precisely one of the other main objectives of the Bill. But, unfortunately, then, when there is a good idea, we formalize to ask questions why the Council of Ministers did not bring it in, but brought it in MPs. The constitution is clear: the right to legislative initiative has also the MPs, so let us focus on seeing how to find the good solutions and these solutions are implemented, not from this platform to look for formal arguments and say why we are opposed, provided that we need to understand that this will be useful for everyone.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u50	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Bojankov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u51	Dear Mr. Tzipov, there is no formalisation of the process, as the working group you are talking about, yes, sounds quite reasonable within the year all the proposals carefully discussed, but the MPs were not part of this working group. As a Member of the National Assembly, I have no idea how these decisions came about, why some decisions have been rejected, others have been adopted, and ultimately you have come to this option. Therefore, there is no way that this working group is of any use in the case of the legislator. It is also not a formal process when a Member of the National Assembly introduces a bill which is obviously a draft of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u52	It's an opportunity.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u53	This is a circumvention procedure and we cannot close our eyes with colleagues that the procedure is surrounded because it is clear that its project is the Council of Ministers, just formally because of the lighter regime is introduced by the MP. That's often done. But the fact that there is such an opportunity, a hypothesis in the law does not make this order acceptable, good or useful for this National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u54	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojankov. Mr. Popov, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u55	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Tzipov, we agree with the rest of the bill, and we both said so with colleague Zarkov. Such a change is necessary, but you did not say anything about § 5. At least I didn't hear or understand why you're doing a practical cancellation of the notary certification? Can you from here guarantee that a hollow firm, for example, with a straw man placed as manager, will not sign any affidavit, and then the services will chase him? Here we are talking about other laws, and counterterrorism, and anti-terrorism, and measures against money laundering, and so on, because much of the financial and economic activity of the company is contained precisely, I repeat, in the annual financial report that is being reviewed, as I said, by both the NRA and our security services. However, you are making here a declaration that is still present and currently has it when submitting the applications themselves, but the consequences of submitting this declaration will be extended far ahead in time, but while the consequences of the false declaration are immediate and with a very severe blow to all economic operators who have contacted this company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u56	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Third line, Mr. Zarkov. Mr. Tzipov, you caused a wave of lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u57	Honourable, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House. Dear Mr. Tzipov, first of all, thank you for joining the debate. That's more like a good sign. You say an important bill yes, precisely because the bill is important, we insist that it be discussed. Give the participants in the working group a chance to inform the MPs about how the discussion took place there, where they came from and where they came from. But something more important, we're talking about the project.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u58	They were all on the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u59	No, it's not enough that they were on the Legal Committee the other day. A person is committed to a written opinion. The project, you say, is complicated. Exactly because it's complicated, its legal base is important, and here I want to ask one more conceptual question. Do you think it's right, first of all, to engage in a project and then change legislation so that it happens, or is it not more logical for a serious country, first, to make the legislation so that it is correct, and then with projects to implement it? We're putting the wagon in front of the horse a little bit. However, the CEIS project is no doubt important. It's part of our whole idea of e-government. In this order of thought, precisely because we are making such laws, the time limit that has been set for 1 January 2022 can be recorded on the sad list of deadlines that we change with transitional and final provisions of 10 per week because it is working a little bit through millet. Finally, for § 5, which has nothing to do with this project. I quote the Minister of Justice from the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u60	What happened there?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u61	Because you called me what happened there, he described the change as revolutionary. Do you think the revolutionary change we're making is consistent with the procedure that's happening now? And it's not a formality for the Council of Ministers, it's a matter of responsibility. Indeed, and here again I agree, what has happened will happen, what has happened, trade register, blockages, changes of laws, accusations of various unclean interests. Then they'll all start to spin around and ask, who's responsible? I don't think anyone's gonna point at you. And I'm ending with this. I'm calling you in your backdoor, give the commitment we asked BSP for in the beginning! Say that we stand by our word, with our name and take responsibility for this text will not be a problem!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u62	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Mr. Tzipov for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, it is good to have a debate. I agree with the prefaces who gave me lines. The answers to the questions you asked, the honourable Members who replicated me, also gave the representatives of the institutions who attended the meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs last week. I hope that an answer to the questions you have asked will also be given by the representatives of the Registry Agency, because they will be the authorities that will apply the Law. It's our responsibility, we stand by our names, dear Mr. Zarkov. The responsibility will be borne by the law enforcement authority. There is no bill in which there is no enforcement of the law of the relevant competent authority. Of course, they bear the consequences and all the responsibility for it. Yes, over the years we have witnessed some bad practices, as you said, with delays, but in the end the idea is to achieve the result we aim for, and this result is to be relieved both the Bulgarian business and individuals. There really must be debate on these important issues, but let us not speculate what will happen to § 5 and how the declarations will be submitted. I very much hope that Mrs. Kozareva the Executive Director of the Registry Agency will explain what is happening right now and what will happen in the future with these declarations.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u64	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. To speak, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u65	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm going to use the words of one of the unspeakable colleagues who said we were putting the wagon in front of the horse. Bear in mind that I feel as if I are attending a debate on the second reading of this bill, which is undoubtedly extremely important. There is hardly a colleague in parliament who does not believe that such a bill should be adopted, i.e., to be precise, it is the Law of Amendment and Supplement. At first reading, the philosophy of the Law is generally viewed, and all these things that you have raised are perhaps justified by BSP colleagues, but between first and second reading there are committees, there is a working group, but here the debate really has passed as if we were at second reading. The main concentration on this debate was the notorious § 5, but it is no coincidence that laws are viewed on two readings. Therefore, I ask you to concentrate on the first reading of the Law. At the moment, this is the first reading of the Law, and I think we are wasting parliamentary time, because at the second reading, we will now be looking at paragraph all of the ZID. My request is that this is a request, let us put an end to this debate and move on to a vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u66	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Do we have a line? Yeah. Then Mrs. Kozareva asked for the floor. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u67	Thank you, Madam President! A line to the esteemed Mr. Atanasov without wasting parliamentary time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u68	No, no, we have plenty of time, relax.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u69	Mr. Atanasov, the debate that we are having about this law, we are conducting it by all laws and it is exactly at first reading on the one hand, how Law is done, what we do with you here, we do not just push buttons. On the other hand, the philosophy of this law remains very vague in one part and no one has ever explained it. Now Mrs. Kozareva will probably try to do it. On the one hand, the introductions of the bill tell me: "Don't talk in general, give text by text. " On the other hand, by speaking text by text, you are telling me: "Wait, this is for a second reading. " - Understand that it is here to talk, and before you talk it is very good to read, not just anything, but the opinions of the institutions, people and companies concerned, and these opinions are not here. They're not here because they didn't have time to see it. The big difference between the procedure of the Council of Ministers and the procedure submitted by the MPs is that in the Council of Ministers you have two months guaranteed period within which the respective bill stands on the page. You have seen, as an experienced MP and mayor, and you know the difference between a bill that comes through the chamber of administration, and the thing submitted by the gentlemen MPs to do a service to an institution that can't take it the normal way. [[Noise and lines on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u70	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Popov. Second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u71	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Member, we will make proposals between first and second readings, but it is precisely and it is in terms of philosophy itself, as you said, of this bill, because the philosophy itself is particularly under § 5, the instrument is put into practice two things. On the one hand, some greater speed in the proceedings itself, in the procedure itself, and, on the other, higher security of the whole procedure and the circumstances that are announced and entered in the Trade Register. I think that the balance of these two amounts should not be impaired in this way. And now the officials in the Commercial Register have access to the Notary Register and make relevant inquiries as to whether a decision at a general meeting is notarized or not. Now they won't have that obligation. They wash their hands. [[Noise and lines.]] Yes, the process will be a little faster, but at the expense of security, I repeat. Here the question and what we have spoken was in the essence and philosophy of the bill itself and, in fact, in respect of § 5. In the way the bill is adopted, I think colleague Zarkov was clear enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u72	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Third line, Mr. Mitev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u73	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Atanasov, I think that you have obviously not been clear enough in your speech and this has been shown by the lines that have been given to you so far. First, regarding the procedure. I believe that many more people will turn the MPs into pushers only if they do not engage and use constitutional power, which is related to the drafting and tabling of bills, which is still in the Constitution. I know a lot of people might wish he was gone, but that power is there. Second, get to the point. Colleague Atanasov, explain to all Members of the National Assembly that officials of the Registry Agency do not engage in handwriting expertise, security, study of the acts in depth. The production in the Commercial Register is registered and not security. [[Reply from MP Philip Popov.]] They are in principle responsible for any registration they make. What if they're not responsible?! Of course, every civil servant is responsible for the work he does. The staff of the Registry Agency shall be no different from the other civil servants. At the moment, an act can be submitted for registration, which can be forged, for example, signatures being falsified. What Mrs. Alexandrova told you in the presentation of the Bill is exactly right. In this case, the traders concerned are seeking their rights in judicial order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u74	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. For the doppelganger, Mr. Atanasov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u75	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My fellow Members, once upon a time in the Roman Senate, when someone repeated his colleague, he was taken away from him. I was very interested that you all spoke the same thing with a little different words, because you are intelligent people, but practically everything revolved around the notorious § 5. The other thing that was going on in your entire speech was that almost this was the work of the Council of Ministers and under the cover of the MPs they put in a bill. Look, it's every MP's job to have a legislative initiative. Then let us change the Constitution, let us also ask the President to support the amendment of the Constitution and therefore we as MPs no longer have a legislative initiative! Those were the two anchor points in all the speeches you made. With respect to your rhetorical abilities, but in one, I would say, at the time, a wise senate, as is the Roman one, is no coincidence conquering the whole world when the speakers repeat themselves, has taken away their word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u76	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Mrs. Kozareva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u77	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let me draw attention to why § 5 is actually of such importance and not only is it not separate from the others, but it is fundamental for the entry into force and, in fact, the application of the other paragraphs. As you have explained, the realization of the CASIS is envisaged for 2022. In any case, the construction of a new electronic system can only start to function if all accumulated in the system so far raw annual financial statements, as you have indicated, are processed. If you've paid attention, al. 2 of the paragraph in question says that para. 1 will apply to pending proceedings. That is why § 5 is very important to enter into force immediately, because the 2020 campaign is already a fact This is in respect of § 5. Regarding Mr. Popov's comment and question. I would like to draw attention to and make it clear that there is a declaration of acts and an entry of circumstances in the Commercial Register. What you're talking about is an entry of circumstances. The example you gave with the manager is an entry of a circumstance. Annual financial statements shall be announced. It's a huge difference. That's why access is different. One is registered, one is not. Annual financial statements are announced by the register, that is, we do not follow and examine the information contained in them, at least because it is financial and we have neither expertise nor obligation to verify financial information. It was confirmed by the auditor's signature. That's why a different regime was introduced. What you have pointed out about the responsibility they bear, or in your opinion, will not be carried forward by the registration officials, in fact does not correspond to the truth, as in the order of art. 21 of the Commercial Register Act, the registration officials shall not at any time verify these circumstances. I assume you have the Law in front of you. We can't check because the law itself says: a formal inspection by the outside. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yeah, sure, sure. In a system of unity...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u78	Don't come in here and talk to the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u79	Okay, I'm sorry. It shall be verified in the register that the notary certification referred to by the applicant is a fact. However, the decisions of a general meeting regarding the acceptance of annual financial statements do not require certification. In that sense, there's nothing to check. That's the second line I heard. I told you about the auditors why, in fact, the information that is subject to the annual financial statements is confirmed as such by those who validate it, and we, as a register of registration, are simply announcing it so that it can be accessible to traders. Is there anything else I could do on your notes? I don't think so. Once again, it is very important that § 5, as well as the other paragraphs, enter into force as quickly as possible, because we expect that this campaign, as well as the 2019 campaign, will take place 500 thousand annual financial statements, which will make the implementation of a single entry point unfulfilled by the date 1 January 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u80	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kozareva. Any other speeches? You're welcome, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u81	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I appeal to you, Madam President, with a procedure in the manner of conduct, because if you have followed my speeches and lines here from this tribune, the Pre-speaker has made a small interpretation and speculation, in my opinion, with what I have said. Of course, there is a difference, Madam President, and you should have reminded the Pre-speaker that there is indeed a difference and I have not denied that there is a difference between the entry and the announcement of the circumstances. But I was saying that officials should check whether there was a general meeting. How are they gonna check it out? It's exactly when they check in...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u82	You're getting to the point. I understand the procedure you're using, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u83	I understand, but it still has to be explained so there's no wrong impression. Officials shall verify this circumstance for a general meeting. They have no procedure but in the Notary Register. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u84	I understand your remark. There's no way I'm gonna make a point. Come in, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u85	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Allow me to return you almost three years back - July 2017, from this tribune I asked an up-to-date question to the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Tomislav Donchev, related precisely then to the award of the implementation of this project for the Single Entry Point CASIS, as they call it. Then I actually asked Mr. Donchev: how was this project valued, how was the job done to implement this project without having established the legal framework for its construction before then? What Mr. Zarkov just said about the wagon in front of the horse is actually true. We are trying in Bulgaria for 10 years, the government is trying to make electronic control, putting the cart in front of the horse. There is no way, without the legal framework, we can have successful projects that work in e-government and have a working e-government. Then Mr. Donchev, by the way, replied that in order for this project to work, at least four key laws must be changed, one of them, of course, for the Trade Register. But there remains the Law on Accounting, the Law on Corporate Income Tax, the Law on Income Tax on Individuals. These are serious legal changes, and, of course, in order for this CAIS project to be successfully implemented, it must be made before its award so that the framework on which this project is implemented and started to work properly is given. Otherwise, it happens that we here in this room are changing the laws for the projects themselves. Imagine if we have 200 projects that we have to change four laws for, that's 800 laws. Well, this is how the time of the National Assembly is filled with meaningless work. And the final effect of this is that we have a permanent job on an e-government that never happens. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u86	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Please, colleagues, take your seats. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities, No 054-01-18, submitted by Krasimir Georgiev Tsipov and a group of MPs on 27 February 2020. Vote 148 MPs: 100, none, abstention 48. The motion is accepted. Moving on to point three: The Law on Modification and Complement of the Law on the Protection of the Public Order in the Conduct of Sports Months, No 054-01-9, tabled by the National Representative Slavcho Atanasov, Manoil Manev and Stefan Apostolov on 7 February 2020, adopted on the first vote on 26 February 2020. Who's gonna introduce us to the report? Here you go, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u87	Madam President, honourable Members! I have a procedure for admission, if you please, colleagues and Madam President, to the Secretary General of the Ministry of Sports Asen Markov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u88	Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 117 MPs: 114 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Invite the guest to the hall. Mr. Manev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u89	Thank you. Report on the Draft Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Protection of Public Order in the Conduct of Sports Events, No 054-01-9, submitted by the MPs Slavcho Atanasov, Manoil Manev and Stefan Apostolov on 7 February 2020, adopted at the first vote on 26 February 2020. The Law on the Protection of Public Order in the conduct of sporting events is amended and supplemented by the Law on the Protection of Public Order. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u90	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law, which the Commission supports. Vote 113 MPs: for 112, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u91	By § 1, there is a proposal from Slavcho Atanasov and Manoil Manev. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Ivan Chenchev and a group of MPs: Article 1 (1) shall be inserted. 7b and the following amendments shall be made. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The verification and control of compliance with the requirements of para. 1 is carried out by the Minister of Youth and Sports. In para. 3 the words "the district manager" shall be replaced by "the minister of youth and sport." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Dimitar Georgiev: In § 1 of the created art. 7b is created para. 4. The costs of public policy measures related to security in the conduct of an international sport event with the participation of national teams are at the expense of the state budget. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version: Article 2 is created. 7b: Art. 7b (1) International sports events in stadiums shall be held only after the requirements for security and safety in accordance with Annex 1. (2) A Regional Commission appointed by the Order of the Regional Governor, on the territory of whose territory the stadium is situated, shall carry out a check to comply with the requirements of Annex 1 in the presence of the owner or user of the stadium or of a person authorised by it. (3) When the requirements of para. 1, the district governor, on the basis of a report of the Committee on para. 2, issue an order authorising the use of the stadium or parts thereof for a period of one year. (4) Sports events from the national sports calendar shall be held in stadiums only after the security and safety requirements adopted by the relevant licensed sports federation, agreed with the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. Madam President, there is an editorial amendment here, not in agreement, but in agreement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u92	..Federation, concerted.....?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u93	In accordance with the authorities of the Ministry of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u94	Got it. Okay, we're gonna vote on this and we're gonna figure it out.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u95	It's about the requirements.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u96	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Do you have anything else to report or not under this Paragraph 1?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u97	That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u98	Here you are, Mr. Chenchev, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u99	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I propose that you make a separate vote on the proposal by Slavcho Atanasov and Manoil Manev in respect of art. 7b, point 2 to be voted separately.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u100	Alinea 2? The Regional
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u101	Point 2, para. 2 is amended as follows: Actually, let's put it this way: 7b The following amendments and additions are made: 1 in para. 1, at the beginning of the text, the word is added to the international text. "So far, let's vote on it and then vote on para. 2's next, let's vote separately.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u102	No, make me a proposal in the text we will be voting on, in the editorial text, in the Commission text. There is no way we can make an editorial amendment to the proposal of Atanasov and Manev because it is accepted. You have to make me...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u103	No, it's not editorial. Let's just vote separately on this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u104	This is not a vote. We are already voting on the text of the Commission behind which the proposal is united.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u105	Well, when I raised my hand a moment ago, you didn't...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u106	Yeah, yeah. We're entitled to editorial repairs. We have not passed this paragraph, so you can make a proposal for an editorial amendment in the text which is already the Commission's. In this text, which it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u107	I just want a separate vote to do, I don't have an editorial amendment. Do you understand?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u108	Okay, then tell me in the version of § 1 in the text supported by the Commission, where do you want there to be an amendment?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u109	Let's vote separately to the word "International" to the extent that we make the first vote, then to... That's what I want.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u110	We cannot vote on the text of Mr. Atanasov and Manev. It has already been adopted and an editorial amendment has been formed in para. 1. But you want the District Committee appointed by order...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u111	Vote separately.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u112	This subparagraph, all of it, to vote separately?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u113	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u114	Alinea 2?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u115	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u116	It's not that, maybe. Here, look at the text. That's it?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u117	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u118	Not that?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u119	No. Here, look at this. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u120	No, we can't vote on this anymore, this is adopted by the Commission, it is a single text of the Commission. If you want to make an editorial amendment, it should be... We don't vote on that in principle. We don't vote on that in this House. We only vote on unaccepted texts. All the other texts... This is based on the text already adopted by the Commission. Do you understand? [[Replication outside microphones by the National Representative Ivan Chenchev.]] Mr. Manev, are you going to say something? No. Because I'm putting it to the vote right now... Yeah, I'm sorry. We're not voting yet. Here you go, Mr. Ali. Mr. Chenchev, you are currently able to make an editorial amendment to the text that has already been voted by the Commission. Once the speeches are going, you can do it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposal for amendment and addition to the first reading of the Law on the Protection of Public Order in the event of sporting events, especially the proposal which concerns this was also meant by colleague Chenchev, para. 1 of art. 7b, where it is specified that the requirements...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u122	International sports events.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u123	... of Annex No 1 for the certification of sports sites only applies to international sporting events. This, honourable Members, was also one of the conditions of the parliamentary group at first reading to support this bill, because without this addition to the Bill, we also said during the first reading that this bill without this amendment condemns the sport mostly football in small settlements, and not only in most cities in Bulgaria, to doom. Yes, last year, with the entry into force of the new Law on Physical Education, a security regulation was dropped, which regulated how sports sites are mostly certified at which these international sports meetings are held, and currently there is a gap in the regulations. It is really necessary and there is no question that this amendment must be adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u124	Just specify the repair.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u125	But, honourable Members, I am mostly addressing the government, from last year until now you have had enough time for this bill, this proposal to be made by the Council of Ministers in due order through the two ministries, the Ministry of Youth and Sports and the Ministry of Interior, and not as it has become an honest practice to bypass these ministries, without public discussion fellow Members of the National Assembly to seize the functions of these ministries, for which today it has become a matter of the Ministry of Youth and Sports and the Ministry of Interior. Unfortunately, this has become a common practice and tradition among the government in the 44th National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u126	If you could just tell me what the amendment proposal is?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u127	I am making a statement and my proposal is that this paragraph should be voted on by member referred to in the subparagraph of Article 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u128	I have heard that I will put to the vote the proposal for a separate vote, that is what you want. Okay, I get it. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mrs. Lecheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u129	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will take account of our proposal, which concerns para. 2 to art. 7b, but I just want to make one explanation about what you said and my colleague. The whole § 1.. the Commission's proposal, supported by the Commission, has four paragraphs, our proposal was that these four paragraphs should be voted on separately. So that's the offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u130	I got it, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u131	Here's what we're talking about. When it comes to public order in the event of major sporting events.. International sporting events, it is about certification of individual sports facilities and facilities. And here for me, and for my colleagues, it is incomprehensible to my colleagues why is the Ministry of Sports absent from all this procedure, since the Minister of Sports is a major body for the management of state policy in the field of sport, since the Minister of Sports is keeping and maintaining registers, mostly related to a register of sports organizations, a register of sports sites, the absence of this procedure, which means certification of sports facilities and facilities, the Minister of Sports? That is why our proposal is that the committees that certify sports facilities be headed by the Minister of Sports. I'm sure you have your arguments, but this is not about a large number of sports facilities and facilities, it must be about two or three sports facilities, and here very clearly the responsibility of the Ministry of Sport should be described in the face of the Minister of Sports. That is why I am proposing that the text be replaced where you propose the regional governors, regional committees and that the Minister of Youth and Sports be the head of the committee responsible for sports facilities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u132	- What's the line? Speaking, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u133	Madam President, honourable Members! This bill I don't know why it consumed an infinite amount of time at the National Assembly. After all, at first reading, and now the debate is spinning and it's always about the same thing. I will not comment that this bill comes in because we need to find this body to certify these objects, to do this faster and to have certified stadiums that can accept households, and to perform matches under the auspices of UEFA. [[Comments from GERB: "I of FIFA. "]] And the FIFA, yes, thank you. In this regard, however, with the debate on this law, we began to explain basic things in sport and in the Sports Act and in ownership of sports facilities and so on. I am not comfortable now entering this debate in this way, but I will do it for colleagues who wish to hear us and do not want to talk to each other. Look, fellow Members, this is what we're talking about. Colleagues who spoke before me want the Ministry of Sports, that is, the Minister of Sport, to exercise control over fulfilling the security requirements to which stadiums must meet in this case. Unfortunately, some of these stadiums are owned by the Ministry, i.e. they are state-owned and it appears that their owner must control himself whether he has fulfilled certain requirements. By the way, it is not true that he is not present in our bill. He attended the Minister of Sports but was present as the owner of the sites and we have said that his representatives should be present when this is done and when the committee meets and so on. But in fact, the truth about this whole story is this. There is one committee to the only one who can address all the state authorities in the area, this is the district governor. He may call on the commission to meet with the representative of the Ministry of Interior, with the representative of the Ministry of Interior, with the representative of the Ministry of Fire and Emergency Safety, with the representatives of sanitary and so on control, building control, to assemble such a commission, to check that these requirements have been met and that the governor of the district will come out with an act of his own, because the requirement of FIFA, UEFA and many other international federations is finally after the inspection to have an act of a state authority to say that they have been fulfilled. The governor of the district, coming out with this actuary of his: "These things have been fulfilled, these documents are sent to the relevant international federation and it allows this subject to happen international competition, event and so on. It's the only logic to be the district manager. We have neither me nor any of my colleagues, anything against being a minister, the minister and anyone else, the question is that it cannot happen for the simple reason that he will at some point become the owner of the site responsible for their implementation and the examiner for the fulfilment of these requirements. It doesn't make sense. If you find any other logic, further in the Law, do it, there's no harm in it. The question at the moment is this: Firstly, let us not increase, aggravate the requirements laid down by international organisations, not to aggravate them, be those required, sufficient, and do not need greater at the moment to meet the requirements. And the second part is to have an active body, which within a month, as stated here, which, by the way, is very much to me to gather the committee, to check them out, to issue them the certificates, to go to international organisations and international organisations to issue the permissions to conduct the international competitions of these sites.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u134	Get it over with, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u135	This is the case, colleagues. I appeal with a huge request to you: let's gather in this case, let's have a draft of the big law. Yeah, we're working there with all those extras over 20, I think they're requirements of both the Ministry of Interior and other things, and there we're gonna do everything we can, all of what you're saying happens, but let's get back to the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u136	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Line one, there was Mrs. Lecheva. As a gentleman, Mr. Atanasov retreats.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u137	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Manev, of course you have caused a lot of discussion on this bill. At Prima Vista, I would say it is not complicated legislation, but in the end, if the President had called the Commission and had a normal committee to discuss the changes between first and second readings, this debate would have gone to the Commission and not here in plenary. [[People representatives Slavcho Atanasov and Manoil Manev talked to each other.]] Unfortunately, Mr. Chairman didn't hear me, but it doesn't matter. So, Mr President, to you, if you had called the Commission, this debate would have been held in the Commission, and it would not have been held in plenary, but so far. It's about how much faster the procedure is to be. I dare say that the competences are in the Ministry of Sports and all information regarding sports facilities and facilities in the way that certain sporting events related to certain sports are being held, the entire competence is in the hands of the Minister of Sports and I do not see how quickly the district manager will deal with this available information that we need to retrieve from the Ministry of Sports. They are both political persons, both the Minister of Sport and the Regional Governor. In the end, I think the most logical place is when the register of sports objects is kept and maintained by the Ministry of Sports, after all information about any sports facility and object is in the Ministry of Sport, to give in the hands of the district manager decisions that he cannot take without the relevant information, and must require it from the Ministry of Sports. And that's why I think this is a long argument that's needed here, because in the end, the district governor doesn't have the necessary competence. It is true that it controls the legality and protection of the legality of state property, a fact. But when it comes to municipal property and so on, all of it, I say again, information is contained in the register of the Ministry of Sports and that is why we are having this debate. Because the most logical place in this purely sporty, I'd say, the subject, there's no way the Minister of Sports is absent from this whole procedure. It doesn't make sense, it doesn't make sense that he's missing.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u138	Mr. Malinov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u139	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! As you can see, from a truly specialized thematic problem, a very big problem has been created and I want to say why it is obtained, which by content is a replica of the honourable colleague Manov. There were two controversial moments. The first one was for the international ones, which I think is clean, and there's absolutely no problem. In purely meaningful terms, at the very first reading we said that as a parliamentary group we will support this bill, as it is necessary for the development of international competitions and to meet the requirements of international sports institutions, and so on. The next narrow moment remains that we have no explanation for. Why is it manifest, how can I say, such an appreciated short-sighted part about the place and role of the issuing authority, and all administrative, structural, management logic indicates that the Minister of Youth and Sports is responsible for this work? It has all the information and is responsible for building, maintaining and controlling the activities of the sports infrastructure and is suddenly transferred to the district manager (s) no management-administrative logic. I'm going to give one maybe out of place an example. When a license is issued for a hospital, the Commission, which licenses the hospital, by whom is it appointed by the governor or by the Ministry of Health? What I heard here, perhaps I misunderstood, is that much slower would have happened if the Ministry of Youth and Sport had been involved and this is an assessment that I share somewhat. I would like to ask the following question: as long as these activities do not concern the Ministry of Youth and Sports, which is the subject of the Ministry's content activity, after all, why do we need the Ministry of Youth and Sport? So the proposal that has been made by fellow Members for a split vote on the individual paragraphs is in this direction. This is the moment at issue. I think that it can be decided and that management and administrative logic must be followed. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u140	Thank you, dear Mr. Malinov. Mr. Atanasov, come in for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u141	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Manev, perhaps we would have gotten away with some confusion at the moment on these statements, if you had stressed that it was only a security certificate. The convention, which is about three and a half pages, but the apps are 660 pages, Mr. Manev and you read it, and I read it, there very clearly writes in the four modules that there is no way the principal to control himself. Colleagues are basically right, but colleagues say: in general, and there is no overall. There is only a security certificate here, and this security certificate cannot be issued by the principal, i.e. the owner of the site. That's first. Secondly, it is not true that the Commission for Children, Youth and Sports has not dealt with this PID. On the contrary, he was looking at it. The Vice-Presidents are here - Mr. Apostolov and Mr. Chenchev, and can confirm that this bill is supported by almost complete majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u142	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Mr. Manev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u143	I'll start backwards from my colleague Atanasov. In a nutshell: yes, unfortunately, when we enter into a debate from the National Assembly's stand on strictly professional topics, in any area I know, or one I do not know, we always come to the point that one who knows matter must explain alphabetical truths. I really missed saying earlier that it was part of the licensing act, and this is the security certificate. From this comes some of the misunderstandings with colleagues They are neither political nor principled misunderstandings, but there are just things we say to each other about technology. Mrs. Lecheva also has the right to what she said, only that there is one nuance of the Commission is not at all a question of requiring an in-for-ma-tion. The Commission's job is to go on the field, that's how it's done. It goes with the check-list 17 positions, on the ground and check: there are seats and they are 30 cm, there are such points, there is a switch for the lighting. That's her job, and that's why it's not about demanding any information from the register and so on. It's about clean ground work. This can really only do the District Service right now, because it doesn't make any sense and I don't know how many times and how to explain it. There's something else. Mrs. Lecheva, I can't help but say it because you are simply the third MP today, who mentioned it in his speech "how competent the MPs were to submit proposals and have legislative initiatives." I do not accept any suggestion of the kind that any Member of the National Assembly, whoever he is in this Chamber, is not competent to submit proposals or is less competent than administration, public administration, official and other. That's not true! The MP is responsible for what he writes and says, the people's representative of the Constitution and by law has the right to do it and there is no one and how his colleagues suggest that we are the dumber ones here, and they are the smarter ones. Finally, for colleague Malinov. My fellow Member, I can't help but thank you. I can't see him, can I not leave?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u144	That's where the back is.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u145	I want to thank him because at the first reading of the Bill he proposed to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and I can ask if I have to...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u146	Time, Mr. Manev!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u147	... He offered these requirements to refer to all stadiums and said that we have ignored small stadiums and small settlements, but now he changed his mind, for which I thank him.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u148	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Will there be any other speeches? Mr. Chenchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u149	I just made a procedure for the split vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u150	Okay, I'm assuming it's a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u151	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! That's how the Commission checks out, as you said, for example, 17 points for the sites concerned. First, the Minister and the Ministry of Youth and Sports is the owner of two sites, where there may be international matches in the country. If, for example, he plays the Black Sea, Varna, in the UEFA Cup in Varna, what do we do? Who owns the stadium? This committee requires all documents and you know it very well, but here comes the role of responsibility. Since the Minister of Sport is familiar with everything, with all the requirements, since he is involved in the control and verification of even his own two sites, then why shouldn't he be responsible in principle, in terms of security? Yeah, it's about security. This is a committee, and it cannot be the authority of the principal. It is a committee that establishes whether there is a implementation of the recommendations or not, and then comes a committee from Europe that is certified in terms of football matches. So here will it be the district governor, or the minister, the colleagues just said: "They are both political people. " - If a stadium, let's say in Varna, does not receive a security license, who will be responsible? District manager, please. And where is the Minister of Youth and Sports then? He's not the owner of this object.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u152	He's the owner.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u153	Well, then why do you insist on being the district manager? Why the district manager? Here's what we're offering. [[GERB lines.]] You can't explain to me right now why...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u154	Do not engage in dialogue with the House!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u155	...you're proposing exactly the district manager. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Any other lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote, fellow Members. First, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Ivan Chenchev and a group of MPs. They voted 111 MPs: 36, against 37, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Dimitar Georgiev. They voted 119 MPs: 44, against 23, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the proposal for a split vote in the four paragraphs. They voted 120 MPs: 39, against 59, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mrs. Lecheva's proposal in para. 2 to replace the Regional Commission with the Minister of Youth and Sports. They voted 123 MPs: 41, against 70, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the version of § 1 of the Commission Report with the amendment that Mr. Manev made in para. 4 supposed to become a "coordinated".
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u157	They voted 127 MPs: 85, none, abstention 42. The motion is accepted. Proceed with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u158	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. According to § 4 there is a proposal of the MPs Slavcho Atanasov and Manoil Manev. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Ivan Chenchev and a group of MPs: "B § 4 in Annex 1 to art. 7b, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 9 after the word "lighting".. is added with its own independent power supply and automatic power supply. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 12 a new comma is inserted after the word "materials" and a new one is added. 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 17 A sentence second is created: The doors on each road shall be capable of opening to the playing field, with remote and manual or manual control only. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1 and does not support it in the rest. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ Annex 1 to art. 1 is hereby established. 7b, para. 1: Annex 1 to art. 7b, para. 1: Safety and security requirements for international sports events in stadiums: 1. The seats for viewers shall be individual, numbered, firmly fixed to the base, made of non-breakable, fire resistant material, with backrests with a minimum height of 30 cm from the seat surface. 2. The stands shall be fixed to the supporting base and shall not be based on or consist of pipe elements and structures of scaffolding type. 3. The material, design and construction of the stands shall clearly indicate that they are intended for permanent use. 4. Each stadium must have clearly marked seats with access for disabled persons and their escorts, as well as a toilet/WC. 5. A minimum of 5% of the stadium's total capacity should be in a sector with enclosures for visiting fans. 6. The common areas of each stadium must be well lit. 7. In the stadium and common areas, bulk materials such as stones, concrete and others which could be used for throwing or which could create difficulties when leaving the stadium are not allowed. 8. Each stadium shall have a sound system to communicate messages to all parts of and outside the stadium and shall be connected to an independent source of electricity. 9. Each stadium shall have operational emergency lighting with its own independent power supply and automatic switching to cover all parts of the stadium, including evacuation routes. 10. On the stadium's territory there must be a distinct, clearly designated, fully equipped room for first aid to the viewers. 11. Each stadium must have a video surveillance and an operational coordination centre overlooking the entire inner part of the stadium and communication opportunities between the persons and representatives of the relevant services responsible for the safety and order of the stadium. 12. The operational coordination centre shall be equipped with colour monitors associated with video surveillance cameras capable of recording video materials as well as pictures and printing them. 13. The routes for access to the stadium, entrances and exits as well as all common areas of the stadium must be clearly marked (e.g. letters and figures) in order to guide viewers to their locations. 14. Any entry into the stadium must be provided with information indicating prohibited objects to import to the stadium. 15. At all entrances of the stadium there must be a crossing mode. 16. There must be certain places to sell food and drinks to viewers. 17. There must be an opportunity to guard all entrances, as well as those leading to the field during the match.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u159	Statements on the three paragraphs? Here you go, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u160	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since we have reached a consensus on the proposal we have made to Annex No 1, art. 1. 7b, para. 1 The following amendments and additions, and here it is. 1 which the Commission has adopted: 9 after the word "lighting', it is added with its own independent power supply and automatic power supply. This is accepted by the Commission. The proposals for the next two points, which are not supported by the Commission, I withdraw them. Firstly, in order not to aggravate the legislation, secondly, because I have the assurance that in the big so-called Law that is being prepared by all of us, they will be present, for which I thank you for your attention and for your understanding.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u161	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. In this situation, we can vote together all three paragraphs............................................................. by the Commission and................................ They voted 112 MPs: 112, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u162	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of the division be amended as follows:
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u163	Here perhaps we should vote § 5 and the name of the "Transitional and Final Provisions" as "Concluding Provisions"? They voted 111 MPs: 111, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u164	There is a proposal by the MP Ivan Chenchev and a group of MPs § 6 to cancel. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 6 and in it the words "the law' shall be replaced by "the law'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u165	Hey, guys, any speeches? I can't see. We have to vote them separately. First, I put to the vote the proposal of the National Representative Ivan Chenchev for annulment of § 6. Vote 117 MPs: 38, against 48, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote § 6 in the version of the Commission, where the words "the law" shall be replaced by "the law." They voted 113 MPs: 90, none, abstention 23. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 7 supported by the Commission. Voted 103 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u166	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman! I would like to thank all my fellow Members who voted on the Law and with whom we have been debating because holding debates on the Law on Sports and Sport Laws is a positive thing. Especially this issue of security is extremely important. Thank you sincerely, from the heart, for entering such a positive debate!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-12.u167	Thank you, Mr. Manev. That concludes the legislative work for today. We need to make the announcement about parliamentary control. Please keep your voice down and let's hear it from those who want to hear it: Debates on asking: Debates on the questioning of the MPs Georgi Gokov, Dragomir Stoinev and Vesela Lecheva to the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mariana Nikolova on the policy of the Bulgarian government for guaranteeing the labour rights of Bulgarian workers and employees in the context of the started trilateral talks aimed at negotiating measures for reforms in key areas. Questions and questions: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mariana Nikolova will answer one question from the MP Krastina Taskova. 2. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov will answer a question from MP Pavel Shopov. 3. Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva will answer a question from MP Smilyana Nieva. 4. The Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will answer six questions from the MPs Vesela Lecheva; Dora Yankova; Teodora Halacheva; Irena Anastasova; Ivan Chenchev, Georgi Gokov and Alexander Paunov; and Ivan Chenchev. 5. Interior Minister Mladen Marinov will answer three questions from the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and Georgi Svilenski; Smilyana Nieva; and Pavel Shopov. 6. Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer five questions from the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov two questions; Valentin Kasabov; Kristina Sidorova; and Ivan Chenchev. 7. Economy Minister Emil Karanikolov will answer a question from the MP Christian Vigenin. 8. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva will answer a question from the MPs Violeta Jeleva and Nadia Klisurska-Zekova. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Anton Kutev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova, one question from the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov; and one question with a written answer from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Culture Minister Boel Banov "To two questions from the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Anastas Popdimitrov and Nona Yotova; and Velislava Krasteva; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev, one question from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska-Zekova; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov to two questions with written answer from the MPs Ivan Chenchev; and Alexander Siddi and Dean Stanchev; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Georgi Andreev; - Minister of the Environment and Waters Emil Dimitrov to a question from the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov; and to two questions written by the MPs Krum Zarkov and Georgi Stoilov; and Dzhevdet Chakarov, Ahmed Ahmedov, Adlen Shevked, Errol Mehmed, Sevim Ali and Jayhan Ibryamov. For lack of respectable reasons, Members of the National Assembly shall postpone the responses to: - one question from the National Representative Christian Vigenin to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev; - a question from the National Representative Krastina Taskova to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev; - two questions from the National Representative Georgi Mihailov to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev; - one question from the MPs Elena Pesheva and Krastina Taskova to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev. The next meeting is on 13 March 2020, Friday, at 9.00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
