ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members, I present to your attention a draft programme for the work of the National Assembly for November 5, 2020: "1." Draft Decision amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Importers srasimir Jankov and a group of MPs, 21 October 2020 2. Draft decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions of presentation and public disclosure of the documents of the candidate for Chairman of the Economic and Social Council proposed by the Council of Ministers and his hearing in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. Importer "The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, 29 October 2020" 3. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act. Importer suppose the Council of Ministers, 22 October 2020 4. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 27 October 2020 5. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code. A joint project drawn up by the Committee on Legal Affairs on the basis of the bills adopted in the first vote on 22 July 2020 with importers: the Council of Ministers, 6 July 2020; Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs, 10 July 2020. 6. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and to overcome the consequences. Importers.. Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs, 22 October 2020. Adopted at first vote on 30 October 2020. Point 1 for Friday, 6 November 2020 7. Parliamentary control after the legislative part of the meeting on Friday, 6 November 2020 Please vote on the presented draft programme. Vote 149 MPs: 118, against 20, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. I'll read... [[The National Representative Hristo Prodanov wants the floor for procedure.]] Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u2	Madam President, my procedure is: from the just voted agenda to drop the first item, because it is a vivid illustration of what are the priorities of today's governance... [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u3	I'll put her to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u4	...and that they are completely different from the priorities of the Bulgarian society. Because the Bulgarian society... [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u5	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. I'll put your proposal to the vote. [[Noise and lines from the OP: "There is a procedure before the vote. "]] We're already in the voting process. I put to the vote Mr. Prodanov's proposal the first item of the draft decision to amend and supplement the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to be removed from today's agenda. Cancel the vote. [[National Representative Christian Vigenin wants the floor.]] I'll give you the floor in the manner of conduct. All right, sit down, I'll give you the way you run it! [[Replyes from "BSP" for Bulgaria "October": "October!"]] There will be no resignation. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u6	It's a procedure. I propose a procedure to verify the quorum before the forthcoming vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u7	We'll check the quorum. Come in the manner of conduct, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u8	Dear Ms. Karayancheva, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I think whatever the emotions are, the Rules are Rules and it must be strictly respected. We see that at the first point, an attempt is made to set it in a way that will be convenient to the government. You're entitled to this, though it's not moral from our point of view, but you don't have any morals. [[(noise, banging on banks and lines from GERB:]] No other reason to...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u9	Sir, you're talking to the stands and you're not talking to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u10	I'm talking to you, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u11	Tell me what you have to say. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u12	Ms. Karayancheva, since I'm talking to you and not to your colleagues right now, I don't know why they're banging on the tables like they're in the circus. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u13	I'm gonna have to ask you to refrain.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u14	I would like to say that you have neither moral nor any other reason for repeating this for your colleagues, let it be heard by all of you to interrupt the procedure of a fellow Member of the Parliament in which he wants to justify the reason why item one of the agenda is inadequate to the agenda of the public nor to the agenda of this Parliament. [[GERB lines.]] He had two minutes to justify this, and you interrupted him at 30 seconds. I believe that this is already crossing the limits of the normal attitude towards the activity of this Parliament. [[GERB's lines: "It won't happen. "]] , although your colleagues have saved you, and this Parliament will finish its work so that another will come and behave in a way that is adequate to the needs of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u15	Thank you. Mr. Ermenkov, in the manner of conduct, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u16	Madam President, I appeal to you with a remark of the inadmissibility of your conduct, not only as President of the National Assembly, but also as an MP. First of all, yesterday you allowed yourself, as soon as you failed to collect a quorum, to make remarks to the BSP Parliamentary Group, whether to enter, whether to enter, whether to peek, or not to peek. It's none of your business! We're not bothering anyone, and the fact that you can't collect a quorum is your problem. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Secondly, Madam President, I ask you very much, when that part of the room behaves like shepherds in the field, very please, make a remark to them so that...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u17	No insulting epithets, Mr. Ermenkov! Please don't insult the MPs!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u18	Madam President, I'm giving a characteristic of a behavior that you can see for yourself! Let me be disproved by the reverse behavior, and I'll apologize right now, but there's no way I can do that when they're always yelling, banging, and I don't know what else they're doing. Finally, Madam President, if you continue to behave as if you were in your own kitchen and not in Parliament, I ask you very much: leave this place because it does not suit you! Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB: "This will not happen! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u19	This does not happen with requests, Mr. Ermenkov, it happens with a vote, and only two weeks ago it was confirmed by my colleagues that my place is here, for which I thank them. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] Here you go, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u20	Madam President, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct, because I personally suffer from how you conduct the meetings of Parliament. The last three times I've had to do some procedure, you've taken my word and turned off the microphone.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u21	Now I'm giving you a chance.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u22	I have a proposition for you. If you want, the MPs from the opposition, as we get up to make a statement or a procedure, perhaps we can give you our statement in advance, written, edit it and be acceptable, to like what we will say from the stand of the National Assembly. And personally to our colleagues on the left, I suggest that every speech of ours should begin: "S Boyko Borisov and GERB to bright futures ahead" so that those people who are stuck can be liked, and the only thing they need to do is to submit their resignations.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u23	Do not address your group, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u24	Well, that is, Madam President, not to take our word away from us, to leave us to motivate ourselves and to make our speeches as normal as it should be done. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u25	I get the point. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It starts a name check, and then I'll give you the floor in the way you're running it. Adlen Shukri Shevked- here Albena Vladimirova Naydenova- here Alexander Dimitrov Pawnov- here Alexander Ivanov Matsurev- here Alexander Koychev Ivanov- here Aleksandar Mairov Siddi-here Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov- here Alexander Petrov Alexandrov- here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov- absent Alexander Tihomirov Simov- absent Altimir Emilov Adamov- here Anastas Marinov Popdimitrov- absent Angel Iliev Isaev- here I'd like to ask one of my BSP colleagues to stay and see how I do the roll call check. Then there'll be no comments. I'm not gonna tell him he's here. Andrian Ivanov Raykov-- here. Anna Vasileva Alexandrova- here Anna Nikolaeva Slavova- absent Anton Konstantinov Kutev- absent Asya Atanasova Peeva- here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov- here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov- absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov here Bogdan Emilov Botsev- absent Boris Vangelov Borisov- here Boris Petkov Kirchev- here Boris Yankov Yachev- here Borislav Ivanov Borisov- here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva- here Burhan Ilyazov Abase- here Valentin Alexiev Nikolov- here Valentin Georgiev Lambev- absent Valentin Ivanov Radev- here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov- here Valentin Mirchov Milushev- here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova- absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov- absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov- here Vasil Milanov Antonov- absent Vasil Tsvetkov- here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov here Velislava Ivanova Krasteva- absent Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova- here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva- absent Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - absent Veska Marinova Nencheva- absent Violeta Ruseva Jeleva - absent Vladimir Slavchev Valev- here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev- here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov- here Galya Eneva Zaharieva- here Galya Stoyanova Zhelyazkova - here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov- absent Georgi Georgiev Stoilov- absent Georgi Dimitrov Andreev- here Georgi Evdokiev Markov- absent Georgi Zaprev Dinev- here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov- absent Georgi Kolev Kolev- absent Georgi Nikolov Vergiev- absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski- absent Georgi Tenev Stankov- here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski- absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov- absent Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova- here Daniel Petkov Yordanov- absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva- here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova- here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova- here Danka Evstatieva Zidarova-Lurtova- here Dean Stoyanov Stanchev- here Delyan Slavchev Peevski- absent Desislaw Petrov Taskov- absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov- absent Desislava Angelova Todorova- here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- absent Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva- here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov is absent. Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov is absent Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov- here Dimitar Boychev Petrov- here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev- here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - absent Dimitar Ivanov Avramov- absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev- absent Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov- here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov- here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov- absent Dobrin Nenov Danev- absent Donka Dimova Simeonova- absent Dora Ilieva Yankova- absent Dora Stoyanova Hristova- absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- absent Evgeni Genchev Budinov- here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva- here Evgenia Danielova Angelova- here Evdokia Slavchova Asenova- absent Elena Vladimirova Angelina- here Elena Stefanova Pesheva- here Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov- absent Emil Marinov Hristov- here Emil Seraphimov Tonchev- here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova- here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin-here Errol Osman Mehmet-- absent. Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev- absent Brought to you by Vassilev Iankov- here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov- absent Ivan Dimov Ivanov- absent Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev- absent Ivan Nikolov Mihovski- here Ivan Stefanov Valkov- here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov- absent Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva- here Ivo Angelov Hristov- absent Iglika Ivanova-Subeva- here Ilian Angelov Timchev- absent Imren Ismetova Mehmedova- here Irena Metodieva Dimova- here Irena Todorova Anastasova- absent Honest Vasilev Veselinov- here Ihsan Halil Hakke is absent Yordan Apostolov-Apostolov is absent Yordan Iliev Yordanov- here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- absent Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev- here Kalin Lubenov Velev- here Kalin Nikolov Popovski- here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva- here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - absent Konstantin Veselinov Popov - absent Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev- here Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov- here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov- here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev- here Krasimir Mitkov Subev- here Krasimir Hristov Jankov- here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Cristina Maximova Sidorova- absent Krum Kostadinov Zarkov- absent Krastina Nikolova Takova- missing Lalo Georgiev Kirilov- here Lilyana Drumeva Radeva- here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev- absent Manoil Minchev Manev- here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova- here Maria Yordanova Ilieva- here Maria Yordanova Tsvetkova- absent Maria Shtereva Belova- here Martin Stefanov Obreshkov- absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova- here Milen Vassilev Mihov- here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova- here Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov- absent Mitko Kostadinov Polychronov- absent Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov- here Mladen Nikolov Shishkov- absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye- here. Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova- here Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer is absent Nikola Iliev Dinkov- absent Nikolay Asenov Tishev- absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov- absent Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov- here Nikolay Dimitrov Penev- absent Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov- absent Nikolay Krastev Boshkov- absent Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov- here Nikolina Panayotova Angelkova- here Nona Krasteva Yotova- missing Pavel Alexeyev Hristov- here Pavel Dimitrov Shopov- absent Petar Georgiev Kanev- absent Peter Hristov Petrov- here Plamen Dulchev Nunev- absent Plamen Ivanov Manushev- here Plamen Tachev Petrov- here Plamen Trifonov Hristov- absent Polina Alexandrova Shishkova- absent Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova - absent Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev- absent Radoslava Plamen Chekanska- here Radostin Radoslavov Tanev- here Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva- here Ramadan Bajram Atali is absent Rosen Zhivkov Ivanov- absent Rosen Malinov Malinov - absent Rumen Vassilev Gechev- absent Rumen Nikolov Georgiev- absent Rumen Petrov Genov- here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev- here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova- missing Svetlana Angelova Naydenova- here Sevim Ismail Ali is absent Sergey Manushov Kichikov- here Simeon Georgiev Naydenov- absent Simeon Christov Simeonov here Slavi Dichev Netzov- here Slavcho Stoev Atanasov- here Smilyana Nikolova Niva-Krsteva- missing Spas Georgiev Gurnevski- here Save Yanev Panchev- here Stanislav Ivanov Popov- here Stanislav Ivanov Stoyanov- here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov- here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov- here Stanislava Krasimirova Stoyanova- here Stefan Apostolov - here Stefan Ivanov Burgeev - absent Stay Mitev Stoynov- here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev- absent Stoyan Radkov Bojinov- here Tanner Mehmed Ali is missing. Tanya Todorova Petrova- here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov- absent Teodora Atanasova Halacheva- absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva- here Todor Baychev - absent Toma Lubomirov Bikov- here Thomas Nikolov Tomov- absent Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Hayri Recepov Sadakov- absent Halil Recepov Letifov here Hamid Barry Hamid here. Hassan Ahmed Ademov- here Hristian Radev Mitev- here Hristo Georgiev Gajev-here Hristo Tanchev Prodanov- absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva- here Tsvetan Borisov Topchiev- absent Chavdar Yordanov Velinov- absent Julian Krastev Angelov- here Yulian Mihailov Papasimov- here Yavor Bozhilov Notev- here Yavor Rumenov Bozhankov is absent. 133.. there is a yard. We will proceed with the hearing. I put to the vote Mr. Prodanov's proposal draft decision to amend and supplement the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, submitted by Krasimir Yankov and a group of MPs on 21 October 2020, to drop out of the programme. Voted 113 MPs: 12, against 96, abstention 5. The offer is not accepted. Declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u26	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! By completing the composition of the Central Election Commission, it will not become more legal. With the systematic disregard of the Constitution and the laws of the country GERB does not sanitize the illegal composition of the Central Election Commission. The non-voting of Karayancheva's resignation does not sanitize the illegal actions and omissions of the President of the National Assembly, without any argument on the presented legal motives of the requested resignation of the President of the National Assembly. With the adoption of the frank lie that a verification of documents has been carried out that have not been presented to us to this day, the signal of incompatibility of a member of the Central Election Commission by the election authority has not yet been reviewed, but it is the National Assembly, not any committee of the National Assembly. This calls into question the legality of the composition of the Central Election Commission and the legitimacy of its decisions. The political assessment of this behavior is contained in the following words: lie, insolence, arrogance. That's as far as it goes when someone forgets themselves. Eleven years GERB use power as an argument and do not pay attention to the power of the arguments. Now they have one last chance to bring down the legitimate suspicion of illegal elections for a new parliament. They can bring into line with the law the composition of the Central Election Commission and to remove the confidence in Tsveta Karayancheva as Chairman of the National Assembly. [[GERB lines.]] So far, it's all in your hands. For now. In the elections it will be too late, very late for GERB. And there is no one to be angry with if they allow a President of the National Assembly to violate the laws and illegal composition of the Central Election Commission. From now on GERB creates prerequisites for a parliamentary crisis after the elections. This needs to be made clear to everyone. By the way, people will see it and will show it in the upcoming elections. Even today, you are proposing amendments to the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly with a vivid demonstration of violation of the same rules by Tsveta Karayancheva, not allowing within the time provided for by the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly to motivate its proposal. Even an elementary, formal procedure for hearing a candidate for a member of the CEC you have made is in violation of the Election Code because the Election Code states that the management of the Central Election Commission is elected by the National Assembly and the members of the CEC are appointed by the President on a proposal from the parliamentary groups on a principle. Can anyone explain why the Legal Commission listened to GERB's candidate, which GERB will propose to the President for an appointment? The invitation, which the President of the National Assembly sent to international institutions for the provision of international observers, is also not in line with the law, because the law determines the order of invitation and accreditation of international observers and there is no victor of the President of the National Assembly. We at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will send an invitation to international observers in the order required. We will inform them in advance of the prerequisites for illegal elections in the country. We will inform the Council of Europe, the Venice Commission, the OSCE, the European Commission and European political families in the European Parliament about the illegal composition of the Central Election Commission, which organised the country's elections. And the illegal acts and omissions of the President of the National Assembly. And for the reluctance of the government, and especially GERB, to bring into legal form the composition of the Central Election Commission. There is no way that an illegal composition of the CEC could organise legal elections and ensure free, fair and democratic elections. I call on the MPs and the National Assembly to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country. I call on objective media to be at the height of their responsibility and openly and courageously put all the questions, to require documents to stop unlawfulness, and to expose hypocrisy and arrogance, because the media have always been part of democratic building. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u27	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Draft and draft resolutions from 28 October 2020 to 4 November 2020: Draft budget bill for state social security for 2021 Importer The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Law on the protection of natural persons in insolvency. Importer "Iskren Veselinov" and group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Draft budget bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2021 Importer It is allocated to the leading Committee on Budget and Finance and to the Committee on Health. Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021 Importer It is allocated to the leading Committee on Budget and Finance and to the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Energy, the Committee on Regional Policy Public Works and Local Government, the Committee on Foreign Policy, the Committee on Defence, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, the Committee on Agriculture and Food, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Education and Science, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sport, the Committee on Health, the Committee on Environment and Water, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Committee on Culture and Media, the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Complaints of Citizens, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, the Committee on Combating Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics, the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Security Services, the Application and Use of Special Intelligence Funds and Access to Data under the Law on Electronic Communications, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on the Committee on the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Countering Agencies and Trafficking. A bill amending and supplementing the law on the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Budget and Finance and to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Draft decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions of presentation and public disclosure of the documents of the candidate for Chairman of the Economic and Social Council proposed by the Council of Ministers and his hearing in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. The Commission on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Regional Development Act. Importers - Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management and to the Committee on Agriculture and Food and the Committee on Environment and Water. A bill to amend and supplement the Law on Radio and Television. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Culture and Media and to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Draft Decision on the Activity Report of the Temporary Commission on the acquisition by the Bulgarian Development Bank (BIA), 28 265 200 shares in the capital of the First Investment Bank (BIA). Importers. "Evgenia Angelova and a group of MPs. Draft amending and supplementing the Railway Transport Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications and to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Strategy for the Development of Higher Education in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2021 - 2030, with the attached Project for a Decision. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to: the Committee on Education and Science, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Bill for ratification of the Credit Line Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria as creditor and the Single Resolution Board as borrower. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Budget and Finance and to the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Messages: Yesterday, on 4 November 2020, he received and sent to the MPs a general bill on the bills amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship adopted on the first vote on 29 October 2020. The draft was drawn up by the Committee on Legal Affairs on the basis of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that during the period from 4 to 30 November 2020, Bulgarian-American training will be held in the area of joint Bulgarian-American facilities, training polygon "New village" - a base for the previous deployment of Beznemer and the military district of Cheshnegirovo. A formation of US armed forces will take part in the preparations of military personnel with the necessary military equipment, equipment, state weapons and military supplies, military aircraft, transport, auxiliary and repair equipment. The preparations shall be carried out in the implementation of the agreements reached on the implementation of an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on cooperation in the field of defence and are not related to the conduct of military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to the implementation of activities to prevent military actions conducted by other (other State or organisation) armed forces. The notification was received on 3 November 2020 with entry No 003-09-91 and was submitted to the Defence Committee. On 30 October 2020, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 October 2015 to 25 October 2020 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 October 2020 to 25 October 2020 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 October 2020 to 25 October 2020. 1 of the National Assembly Decision of 25 June 2020, adopted in connection with the debate on the questions of the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Alexander Siddy, No 054-05-27 of 5 July 2020, has received from the Minister of Labour and Social Policy an analysis of the current legislation on social assistance. The material is sent to the MPs at their e-mail addresses and is available at the Library of the National Assembly. Under the Fiscal Council Act and automatic corrective mechanisms in the National Assembly, opinions were received from the Fiscal Council on Draft Law on the Budget of State Social Security for 2021; Draft Law on the Budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2021. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the materials were sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee, the Committee on Health and are available in the Library of the National Assembly. The opinions are published on the website of the Fiscal Council. The National Statistical Institute received Information on the business situation in October 2020; Price Indexes of a producer on the domestic and international market in industry.. September 2020. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Svilensky. You've had the procedure requested.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! With regard to the complicated epidemic situation and with the requests made by you, Madam President, and by Vice-President Simeonov, that the work of the National Assembly should be in line with the needs of the state, the situation in which we are present, it would also be good for the agenda that you adopted to meet these needs and those expectations of Bulgarian citizens, and not just on television to state them early in the morning how Parliament works in their interests. I do not understand, Madam President, why is point one of the Programme a draft for a decision to amend the Rules of Procedure with nothing to give rise to the epidemic situation, and point six is measures relating to the state of emergency?! In this context, my proposal is that the first item remains the last item in the National Assembly's Work Programme to adopt the important ones, as you claim, laws. Either way, you're gonna need a quorum tomorrow. Let's keep this point for tomorrow. Have your colleagues come back to work. Michaud should register again, because if today passes this point, tomorrow Michaud will not be at work and you are done. [[Radio.]] So, honourable Members, and in your interest, it is in your interest that point one be the last point. Miso to come to work tomorrow, to register tomorrow, so that there are still two working days this week parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u29	Thank you for your advice, Mr. Svilensky. If you had been present at the Conference of Presidents, which you have long since been present, you know the Programme is being proposed and adopted at the Conference of Presidents and then entered the voting room. Just to tell you that on point six, the Commission will be today, so there is no way I can break the Rules, because then you will blame me for breaking the Rules. However, I will put to the vote your proposal that point one be point six and point six, in violation of the Rules, become point one.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u30	No, point one to be the last point!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u31	Okay. We vote. Vote 144 MPs: 50, against 93, abstention 1. The offer is not accepted. Moving on to point one: PROJECT OF A CHANGE DECISION AND CLEARANCE OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. Importers srasimir Jankov and a group of MPs, 21 October 2020 Mr. Yankov, you have 10 minutes for an importer's motives.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Reasons to the Draft amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Pursuant to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, once a meeting, the President shall give the floor to the Chairs of Parliamentary Groups, to their alternates or to their authorised representative during the meeting on matters outside the agenda where they so request. Such an opportunity shall not be granted to Members of the National Assembly who are not members of parliamentary groups, nor personally as the right of any of them, nor by their representative. In view of this, we believe that this omission should be corrected. According to the provision of art. 67 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria binding a binding mandate for a Member of the National Assembly is invalid. This means that every single MP is freed from any local, party, corporate and other suggestion. It should act on the basis of the Constitution and the laws and in accordance with its conscience and convictions. This is linked, on the one hand, to each MP representing the entire people, and on the other, is deprived of his primary function of speaking. The group of MPs, who define themselves as progressive socialists, will fulfill our mandate responsibly in respect of... [[(Loud noise and lines. (Laughter)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u33	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u34	...on the parliamentary agenda and consistently upholding the interests of the voters. We define as politically irresponsible the boycotting of the normal functioning of the Bulgarian Parliament in making decisions of national importance, such as the voting of the tax laws and the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. [[strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] In this regard, we are putting forward a proposal for changes in taxation with great social impact, which are a first step towards overall achievement of income tax. In the absence of the BSP parliamentary group from the time we belonged to it, a number of important laws were adopted. We consider as a missed opportunity then to protect our position and the majority of the parliament around the government has achieved a comprehensive provision with appropriate legislation of their policies. The role of the opposition is not to be absent but to actively counter alternative proposals for the benefit of society. The provision of the quorum for holding a parliament meeting is an obligation of each individual MP and of the parliamentary political parties represented. [[Private applause from GERB and OP.]] Our constituents expect us to ensure the financial stability and social security of the country by validating the Republican budget. We call on the MPs: in the crisis pandemic situation we are in, priority is putting on the agenda of the National Assembly precisely the solution to the issue of raising the incomes of the people on the first line of doctors, medical staff, policemen, firefighters and others. The declaration of respect for the present National Assembly as an institution with exhausted public support cannot be expressed by irresponsible behaviour towards obligations, but at the same time benefitting from the posts held in that institution. We define this as hypocritical behavior. I thank the President of the Legal Commission and the entire Legal Committee for the decision to obtain the right to express our position, as we are doing at present. It is a democratic right to hear the voice of the opposition, not a deal, to distort and be absent from the field of political debate. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. The report will introduce us to Mrs. Alexandrova. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova, to present us with the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Report on Draft Decision amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, No 054-02-84, submitted by Krasimir Hristov Yankov and a group of MPs on 21 October 2020. Project of a decision to amend and supplement the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly Proposal of the National Representative Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes that the name of the Decision be amended as follows: The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. Proposal from the National Representative Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish a division with the name of the Final provision. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. The decision shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u38	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Today, November 5th, we are looking at an extremely important point that passed yesterday at the last moment in the Legal Commission, and today is in plenary. Why is this item so soon achieved today in plenary? It's clear why. Because yesterday the majority of the National Assembly did not have a quorum. This point, I think, will somewhat solve the fate of this government and the problem of the quorum of the majority in the National Assembly. What's this about? On October 22, about two weeks ago, several non-members of a parliamentary group of MPs elected with the list of BSP in the Forty-fourth National Assembly submitted a draft amendment to the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. In this amendment, they propose that the so-called independent MPs actually have their own representative, their own group, because when something looks like a group, it sounds like a group, it's probably a group. That representative should express their common will. But let us not forget that the common will is strangely formed by independent MPs from all over the political spectrum. These MPs entered the forty-fourth meeting with the platforms of the DPS, of the United Patriarchs and BSP, with their lists, and voted for them voters and formations. This is practically a replacement of the vote of the people who voted for a certain political power, for its policies and platforms. In their motives, they argue that their constitutional rights as MPs were limited. The Constitution, honourable Members, provides for two fundamental rights which are in no way violated by these Rules of the National Assembly. One is the right to parliamentary control and to speeches. The question is therefore why have they now thought of this amendment and why is it supported by GERB and the United Patriarchs? Let us not forget that this is a precedent in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The answer is very prosaic. This is how a quorum is bought. I would like to thank you for the fact that yesterday and today you of the ruling majority played the role of Prometheus and sanctified and proved in practice our assertions that GERB and the United Patriarchs are willing to do anything to keep their power until the testament month of March 2021, including by establishing a new parliamentary group of some political hybrid to support them clearly. By supporting this project, you have proven that your worst nightmare is BSP, led by Cornelia Ninova... [[Radio and laughter in the hall.]] That's right, yes, laugh!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u39	Please be quiet in this room, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u40	You're using all kinds of primos, including the Pop-Cross, with political renegades. Dear MPs of Volya, today your support devaluation. Your shares in the political market have been depreciated, you already have worthy replacements. The document today was stamped and checked with the name check, which reportedly counted the independent MPs. Congratulations to your lying Bulgarian voter and bitterly to the newlyweds! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u41	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Such a poetic statement! A line or a statement? Line. First line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u42	Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a reply to Mr. Popov, as he just said that colleagues who are currently being held as independent are elected accordingly by your political circles, I mean by your primary organizations of BSP. My question to you is this: before your congress of BSP took place, has your visionary organization removed the trust of you in two years not to hold high positions, which is my first question? The second question that I would like to ask: because here you are talking to your fellow party member came out and said that this point is not important, you came out here before us and made an aplouse with which you argued the extremely important point for Parliament?! Thirdly, you have announced that in this extremely complex situation of a pandemic, everyone here in this Chamber is looking at the decisions we make and how, in what way, we will help the Bulgarian people. I ask you, I turn to the Bulgarian voters: can we rely on those people who are running and hiding behind the quakes, when the state is currently shaking with an epidemic, shaking with a pandemic, doctors are getting weak, hospitals are getting weak, beds are expanding?! [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] If you'll excuse me, don't apostrophe me. Here you are, then you can speak. So, Mr. Popov, I want you to state your responsible position and the party, as I see that you appear as its spokesman, to say in what way are you assisting the Bulgarian people in this difficult situation and how will you contribute to reducing the pandemic? By burning masks, by demonstrably walking around here without masks, by waving... [[Reply: "Alloo! "]] Don't shout! Hello out! [[Private applause from GERB.]] And I continue when your chairman made a statement here on Friday and then feverishly went to the Military Medical Academy to test, is that morale? Are these people, gentlemen, we will rely on to lead Bulgaria, I ask?! Are these the people we'll leave the country to... [[Private applause and cheering]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u43	The weather, Mr. Ivanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u44	...who, with the slightest concern, with the slightest stress of the state abdicate? Abdikirat!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u45	The weather, Mr. Ivanov! Time! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u46	Thank you. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I've been emotional since the situation is very difficult right now. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u47	Mr. Hamid, second line, third line, Mr. Angelov. Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Popov, you're talking about buying MPs, but you have to answer me today? Isn't this GERB's practice from the very creation of GERB? Isn't this, Mr. Popov, the symbol of the disintegration of statehood in the Republic of Bulgaria the purchase of independent MPs from GERB? Or perhaps you will answer me that the distribution of money from the SUV is a symbol of the breakdown of statehood by GERB party? Or would you say that GERB itself is a symbol of the disintegration of statehood in the Republic of Bulgaria? In order not to take the floor twice, Madam President, I ask for a procedure to change the name of point one. Let it be: Draft solution, quotes "Downfall for straw" catch, close quotes. [[Radio and applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u49	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Third line, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u50	Madam President! Mr. Popov, in your statement, you started pulling out the bones of Pop Krustyu, which I don't know how acceptable it is for a MP to impose the opinion that Pop Krustyu is a traitor or not a traitor because there is no such evidence. You, of course, your party's practice during the totalitarian regime was precisely to impose the image of Pop Krastyu as a bad thing so that the Bulgarians could be removed from the Bulgarian Orthodox Church. [[Laughter at BSP for Bulgaria.]] That was your goal! That was your goal! And that's why Pop Krustew was the most guilty of the betrayal of Levski for 45 years. And now you continue with this practice for one person who has not been proven to be guilty from the stand of the Bulgarian Parliament to denigrate him. A man who's been buried for a long time. This is your morality and this is your policy. You have no scruples, no inhibitions, no fear of God at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u51	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Hole, Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Ivanov, you may have escaped from the NDSV so zealously. I have moral lessons from political renegades no, thank you. Dear colleague Hamid, this is exactly what you said. GERB not since yesterday or today play with the quorum, buy MPs, today just proved itself and is sanctified. Dear fellow Member of the United Patriarch, you know the folk wisdoms and proverbs when something happens as a public truth, which is spoken of when something becomes called, what is said in the Bulgarian language. That's why I used pop cruseus as an emblematic figure in our history. Whether it's proven or not proven, that's what we leave to historians. The other word I used that you didn't contradict is political renegades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u53	Thank you, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u54	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u55	In the manner of conduct, please, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u56	Mrs. Chairman! It's the way it's supposed to be. I'd like to ask you, when in this tribune they say false things...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u57	What's not true?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u58	...more when it affects me like this, listen, first read and then talk, I always said it. I've entered the NDSV as independent in the position of the leader of the group. So you can read, see, read more, less talk. Here in this group, you talk too much and you read less.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u59	To me, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u60	So, Madam President, when you say the wrong thing, let's check it out, keep it checked, check it out, see if I can see it on the list...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u61	What list were you on?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u62	Yeah, I'll explain. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u63	Please, please! Please, guys!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u64	I've never been on the list of independents. I've never been on the list as independent.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u65	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u66	And as for renegades here, I guess you all know how much there are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u67	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u68	Madam President, honourable Members! It is a surprise to me that today we are looking at a point which, contrary to what the governors say, should contain the agenda of this National Assembly, given the epidemic situation, we are dealing as a whole. But nothing surprising is there, because this happened at the will of GERB, OP and their new satellites, which apparently have them here. This issue, which we are debating today, has two sides. Firstly, what led us to look at this point today, right now, and to change the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly at the last minute. And the second aspect is what led to this? First of all, honourable Members, in this order of thought, I believe that today a marriage is being formalised on account, which was obviously agreed even before the election for President of the BSP, because two of the broad socialists or progressives were candidates for President of the BSP. Thank God this didn't happen because I see what's happening right now and what these fellow Members are doing in this room. Another question is when the marriage was consummated before the election of President of the BSP or today. The other topic, which is important and GERB themselves should answer: why do they do it? Dear colleagues of GERB, you know that these changes, which restrict such rights of independent MPs, were adopted precisely by you to avoid such practice, because you yourself were victims of the forty-second National Assembly. You made them in the forty-three and restricted them with the motive not to allow this party migration within the National Assembly. And now in spite of all your principles, all that you have spoken, in spite of all these primos, priorities that you have also had in the formation of this Parliament, when the Rules were adopted, and these rules were laid down, now that you reject them lightly. Why? To spend three months in spite of Bulgarian citizens. But from the whole work, one useful thing is that the real face of the opposition has been shown - BSP, which is a notary act by GERB. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u69	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there lines? Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Ivanov, let me disagree with your finding that GERB then did something, and now they deny it and that this is some precedent. It's not a precedent! The Constitution denied the document, which is the most important document in this country, only to spend two more months in power. The Bulgarian Constitution! What happened to their Constitutional Writing Commission? It's been a month, have you heard anything? That's how it's gonna be with these rules. One month until they're gone, so don't be impressed by the fact that they're being flipped. They cannot be consistent in anything, let alone in a National Assembly Rule, which is a law and the leading sitting violates it on a daily basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u71	Thank you. Second line? Mr. Atanasov, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u72	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Ivanov and colleagues from the Left, well there is a law of every action there is an equal reaction. And you know it, as each of you I know you personally, is on a serious mental level. That's my opinion. So don't be surprised at this move by the ruling majority. It is true, you will counter me, Mr. Ivanov, you will say: it is the right of the majority to secure the quorum in the National Assembly. That's right, you'll be right. But we're in a situation right now. Many of your fellow MPs, you see, are ill at the moment. On top of that, I say, and I know quite well the Bulgarian history, and not only it, I say that we have not been in this situation for 100 years now. We, right now, gentlemen of the Left and the opposition, are at war in the literal sense of the word, and even more frightening than real war. It's easy there, it's not easy, you shoot and you get shot. We have an invisible enemy here. More than 60 people are dead a day, and it was right, if your position were national responsibility, that you should come in in the morning and do the quorum, not run through the door and see if we have gathered it or not. [[Private applause from GERB.]] That's one. You just had to think a little bit more nationally. And well, come on, this majority is going away, as you want, however, Mr. Ivanov, think about it for a few days we don't collect quorum, the government falls down, what's going on? Elections in the middle of winter in unspoken... [[(Voices from BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u73	But the weather, Mr. Atanasov, finish it already.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u74	I'm sorry, I'm just gonna say, elections during winter in an unspoken budget, think about what's gonna happen to the state. Survive until March.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u75	Is there gonna be a third line? No. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u76	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Svilensky, I agree with your remark, you are absolutely right that reason and rationality here have only given way to survival instincts. In order to survive the honourable rulers, indeed and the Constitution no longer applies to them, and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly even less, given what is happening against all the principles proclaimed by them. Dear Mr. Atanasov, thank you for making this honest recognition of this high tribune for the purpose of changing the Rules, namely the emergency survival of this Parliament in the next three months. The mistake you made is that you didn't resign in the summer so that the elections could be held now. Indeed, it will be very difficult for you and the Bulgarian citizens, because what you are putting them through in the coming months will be terrible, because in this country, the order in which it is working is precisely shifting the responsibilities down, not one to take responsibility, which is the Head of State, precisely the Prime Minister. This Parliament legitimizes such transfer and blurring of responsibilities and should work. And even more so, I am surprised at you why you support this proposal, as this is: with your stones on your head, because you are giving these same rights to those breakaways who are from your parliamentary group. This is the main question that you will hardly be able to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u77	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Simov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u78	Madam President, honourable Members! I listened from the stand how Mr. Krasimir Yankov spoke about responsibilities for having each member of parliament provide a quorum and therefore I want this platform to sound the voice of those whom he has completely forgotten, namely his constituents. In connection with the statement of the National Representative of Coalition.BSP for Bulgaria.. Krasimir Yankov that he is leaving the parliamentary group and becoming an independent MP in the Forty-fourth National Assembly, we Socialists voted for him as a representative of the National Assembly express our outrage of his actions, we remove our trust from him and urge him to leave immediately the Forty-fourth National Assembly because he cannot represent us any more. This is the person you want now to give the right to express positions. His own constituents want him to resign and withdraw. I will also read about one more BSP - Vratsa: Nikolaj Ivanov to leave the parliament because he does not represent the Vrachan Socialists. "In their position it is said that the disagreement expressed by him with the BSP and the parliamentary group is unclear what is related to whether it is caused by the lack of support of the delegates of the Congress and his non-election as a member of the National Council, but regardless of its motives he no longer expresses the interests of the Bulgarian Socialist Party of Vratsa district and should immediately resign as a MP. The same position by BSP "Kustendil," who says that Valeri Zablyanov no longer represents their interests, does not in any way express their position and must resign immediately. And now, in the name of the strengthening of the quorum, in the name of this, GERB can secure some political time, the purchase and sale of political flesh continues! This is what systematically spoils the atmosphere in this Parliament and shows the Bulgarian people a single thing. "This Parliament agonizes. Every injection of adrenaline, buying new MPs will not show any other image of this parliament. It does not work for Bulgarian citizens and such deals show it clearly. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u79	Thank you, Mr. Simov. - What's the line?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u80	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u81	Mr. Zablyanov, in the manner of conduct? Do you have a procedure or a line? Procedure in the manner of conduct, Mr. Zablyanov? Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u82	Madam President, honourable Members! I am doing a procedure in the manner in which the discussion is conducted. Since we are discussing changes in the Rules of the National Assembly, all other hypotheses, personal feelings, imaginations, imaginary states and situations have no place in this debate, even less have an internal party dispute, disputes between individual comrades, former comrades and so on, which cannot forgive each other any personal and perhaps not quite personal relations. The Bulgarian Parliament cannot be grounded for such a type of debate, limit people like Mr. Simov. Clearly, he has such elements in his speeches, which, to put it mildly, are unstable. Thank you for your attention. [[Laughter and a single applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u83	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. You're welcome, Mr. Atanasov. [[GERB's line.]] I can't limit the MPs. After all, everyone... [[GERB's line.]] Okay, I'll pay attention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u84	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Madam President, despite my personal respect for you, I will make a remark, because this is Parliament, this tribune is sacred. In my opinion, you should have made a remark to colleagues that Parliament is not a body to deal with domestic party issues. This is neither a convention nor a plenum, where a party is made clear to one another who is crooked and who is right. So this is my remark to you, Madam President. This is a parliament, not a party meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u85	Thank you. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Taskov. [[(Replication by the National Representative Anastas Popdimitrov: You have never told me the name correctly!]] You will speak more often and I will teach you the name.................................................................................................... I'll read it now and... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Well, 240 is the coworkers. I still can't... Mr. Popdimitrov, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u86	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! I didn't mean to say anything, I didn't mean to, but the last speakers provoked me to do so. Now everyone is starting to say that Parliament is not a place where internal party problems should be solved. We all agree on that. And why did no one react when the motives Mr. Iankov read were exposed to internal party problems and disagreement with the party in which he was recently in? This was in the motives, and no one reacted to it, perhaps because it should and is convenient to listen when criticising a particular party. When she tries to protect herself, it becomes unacceptable. If we escape from the political moments, the situation is clear. From the midst of those from which the current broad or progressive comes, or whatever they're called... [[(Replys from BSP for Bulgaria Sales!]] Maybe. Clearly there's discontent, there's growling, and it's normal. On the other side there is an interesting satisfaction that allows even a change of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. Everything is clear, the goal is clear. Someone will finally become the leader of something. [[Laughter]] , others will realize their previous dreams, although eventually transformed. However, it is not clear the price, the price is in the area of conjecture. That is why it is so wide in social networks and among the sympathizers of left and right space. It is also about the quick version in which the government agreed to change the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly in the name of something. I call on our fellow Members who have tabled this proposal for change to do only in my opinion to preserve their dignity and possibly their political and social future, that is, the public future, to withdraw their proposal. It's the only way, believe me! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u87	Thank you, Mr. Popdimitrov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Vigenin said please come in. Then Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u88	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I see that the passions have calmed down a bit, and so it should be, because what we are discussing today, although there is an emotional charge, it also applies to the foundations of parliamentaryism at all. It is really sad that colleagues from GERB are subjected to this. In fact, I feel a certain regret that you are forced to compromise with principled things only so that you can bring in a few more votes in the morning for registration, several votes to allow another one and another month to push into this National Assembly and this government. In fact, the pity is that, as appropriate with today's decisions ahead, you also turn the Rules into a restaurant napkin. It is not respected by the way, but at least until now you have not respected it in very large elements of it, in large parts of it, but you have not allowed yourself to change it. For example, I may suggest that the entire Chapter 11 of the Rules be removed. It is called the Parliamentary Monitoring and Control of European Union Affairs. No element of this Rule shall apply. And it will not be applied obviously, I will not tell you what it says there, but in practice such control is missing especially in the last year. The first, maybe a year and a half were at least made some effort, and now you've given it up. I propose, for example, that the possibility of controlling the Prime Minister's activities should also be removed. No oral question has reached the prime minister in the past maybe two years. There's a guy sneaking around in writing. If you open on Parliament's website:..............................................................................................! In fact, I do not know who gives the President of the National Assembly the right to assess whether a question is properly asked. You can also amend the Rules of Procedure in accordance with certain rules that are observed in committees. I am a new member of the Committee on Legal Affairs and, frankly, I am somewhat amazed at the practices that are in this committee. Yesterday, for example, in the Committee on Legal Affairs Mrs. Alexandrova and Mr. Mitev voted 11 votes. The other colleagues were not in the Commission, some came later and Viber gave instructions on whether they were present and how they voted. This is ridiculous to me! I would suggest that we introduce this practice to the Parliament, too, to register with text messages. This will eliminate the need for other efforts. Pandemia can justify a lot of things! I do not appeal to you to be aware of the fact that you are in practice destroying principled and established traditions in the activities of the National Assembly. It is no accident that the parliamentary groups have certain rights that Parliament is structured in a certain way, in fact you are now giving, opening up the possibility of creating quasi-parliamentary interest groups, which are obviously not entirely political. What happened yesterday and today actually gave the opportunity to illuminate a well-functioning tactic in recent weeks to piece by piece to assemble another majority crutch in the National Assembly. When it turned out that the will wasn't enough, there were other options to be found. Now we have another one. I understand that you will drag yourself on your stomach just to drag yourself out by March next year. Okay, this is your decision, your opportunity. I regret that my comrades, whom I have respected, are actually involved in this. By the way, yesterday, I predicted what would happen today so shy, one or two will participate in the registration, the next days will be more, and that a declaration will be made today in which, in the name of the rescue of the state, the quorum will have to be maintained. And that is the justification, i.e. the signature on this marriage on an account that we saw to be concluded yesterday by urgency in the Legal Committee, today we will also do it in the Bulgarian Parliament. I would say that honourable Members, who, through these amendments to the Rules, have practically sanctified themselves. They are called "progressive" but they are in fact some breakaways from the parliamentary group of "BSP" for Bulgaria. I'm sorry to say, it's not insulting, really, consider it as the meaning of the content...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u89	Time, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u90	...Today, with this decision, I conclude with this decision and the declaration that has been made becomes ordinary parishioners. However, I would like to assure the Bulgarian citizens that the next elections will restore the dignity of this National Assembly and we will remove both Parliament and the state from the swamp and timelessness in which they were introduced by you. [[Comments from GERB, applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u91	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u92	Dear Madame Chairman, dear Mr. Vigenin! You know that we have known each other for a long time, and I respect you very much, both as a parliamentarians and as a former Minister of Foreign Affairs. I have a specific question for you as you were talking about observing the Rules of the National Assembly. You are elected here by the National Assembly as Vice-President of the National Assembly: how do you perform your duties and benefit from all the advantages and privileges given to you by the Law to date? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u93	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Second line, Mr. Mihov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u94	Dear Madame Chairman, dear Mr. Vigenin! With great respect to you, I would disagree with such an interpretation that you have made. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u95	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u96	No. I respect every Bulgarian citizen and even more every Bulgarian MP. Although I have no doubt that you do not know the Constitution, I will pay attention to all those present in art. 67 of the Constitution: The People's Representatives represent not only their constituents, but also the entire people. The binding mandate is null and void........................................................................................................... 2 It is very clear: The People's Representatives act on the basis of the Constitution and the laws in accordance with their conscience and beliefs. Gentlemen, the conscience and conviction of every citizen, of every person, of every MP is inviolable. It cannot be questioned. And I cannot agree here MPs, in the spirit of the narrow socialists, to put party decisions above the Constitution's decisions, to put party courts here. And why did you lose at the end of your term of office your MPs? Why did your comrades leave you after your leader's democratic choice? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This is your question and you will give that answer to your constituents. Two and a half years, you've been leading front policy here, you've been leading a language of militarism, you've been defending the president, you've been fighting the majority, you've been defending yourself, you've been digging in, you've occupied! Why did you come this far? This is your fault and your responsibility. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u97	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Is there gonna be another line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin. Will you answer the lines?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u98	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Ivanov! Mr. Mihov, thank you for your respect. I, too, can say that each and every one of you, every MP from the parliamentary group of GERB, enjoys my absolute respect in their actions and positions. [[Noise and lines.]] And from this point of view, some calls that were heard there are not serious. The gentlemen who made them do not define the character and behaviour of each of you individually. I would say that, in our speeches, we, and especially in my speech, have not questioned the responsibilities, obligations and rights of the MPs of the Constitution. They are not currently being violated by any Member of the National Assembly, whether or not they are part of a parliamentary group. We are all equal in our duties and responsibilities in this Chamber, and, of course, in terms of the functioning of Parliament, it has been accepted that the parliamentary groups, with a view to the work of Parliament, have additional opportunities for action to ensure that the legislative work of this Parliament is going normally and adequately. And it was no coincidence that 15 years ago, if I am not mistaken, it was a limited opportunity for MPs to break apart, join other groups, create new parliamentary groups. Again, I understand why you're doing this, I just think it's wrong, and there probably were other ways to find a solution to this problem. As for the responsibilities of the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, you are well aware that the Vice-Presidents of two of the parliamentary groups are currently not taking their seats in the parliamentary platform due to certain political disagreements and, I would say, a protest of the respective parliamentary groups to who they are and why other Members of the other parliamentary groups continue to be there. One parliamentary group for one, the other for another. As soon as this issue is resolved, I, and on behalf of my parliamentary group, can say it, will take my place and carry out my duties fully. Thank you. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u99	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Any other speeches? [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Bikov, you've made a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u100	Madam President, honourable Members! From what I've heard here, mostly from colleagues from the BSP parliamentary group...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u101	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u102	...I get the impression that you don't even know where we are, what we're fighting, what our society's challenges are right now. You want there to be no quorum, no parliament meetings, no early elections, I don't know when, probably on March 1st, instead of my 28th. To have a caretaker government of a man who up until a few weeks ago didn't believe in the fact that there was a coron virus that was the president of this country but wasn't. You want some people to come, who demobilized the Bulgarian society for several months, explaining to him that General Mutafchiyski was lying to them. Part of you did the exact same thing. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You want there to be no quorum, you want the independent MPs who are separated from your parliamentary group... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u103	Everyone has the right to say whatever they want from this stand. Here you go. [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] I'm giving you the opportunity, Mr. Svilensky. I never interrupted you. Go on, Mr. Bikov. Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u104	I think parliament is not a place for you to decide your inner party dramas. Personally, I am not at all interested in the fate of either the broad or the narrow socialists, although historically the broad ones are much more sympathetic than the narrow ones. At least they didn't kill people. You're about to join a coalition with the coronavirus, and with great desire. [[Voices: "Bravo!" and applause by GERB.]] The worse, the better your position is at the moment I see. This is a position that you probably don't realize how irresponsible it is either. We have no right at this point to stop Parliament. We don't have that right! There's no argument that can do that. I don't see your plan, if Parliament is disbanding itself today, what is it? What are you gonna do? How exactly are you going to organize the hospitals? How will you arrange the doctors? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You're a danger to the whole society right now. You show this and say it with neither hatred nor any malice towards you. I say this with regret, because in this room, like all the other institutions, we should have a common enemy in the face of the coronavirus, not see in it a potential coalition partner to help us push one of them to come. This cannot be a political instrument. Solve your internal problems, you have a few months until the election. Show people that you can be united, that you know what this is about, and probably people will trust you. But while you are trying to turn parliament into some national council of the BSP, while you are trying to turn parliament into a tool to solve your internal party problems, until you realize the complexity of the situation we are in and which will continue after the elections, regardless of when they will be in the next parliament, regardless of the configuration, to act together again, regardless of who is prime minister and whose government is. Look at it at least three months ahead and get your head in the situation, because you look extremely disoriented. I hope this type of debate in the next few months will be an exception, not a rule. Let's accept the budget, let's secure next year and then whatever the voter decides. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u105	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. - What's the line? Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u106	It's a very short line. Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Bikov, you said, as far as I recorded correctly, that, see, the worse, the better for one. Dear Mr. Bikov, this is as bad as it gets. You have done your best to outperform even the bravest expectations of incompetence and arrogance, and today you prove it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u107	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Second line, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u108	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Bikov, you have indeed shown that you do not know where you are and do not know what we are discussing. We are discussing a change in the Rules, which, of these seven, eight, ten people who have left their parliamentary groups, which are not independent MPs, but are non-members of a parliamentary group, the difference is a huge The theme is this change of the Rules to enable them to do some things. You're talking about the coronacrisis. That is why I asked the question at the beginning of the meeting: is this the priority of the Bulgarian Parliament And what needs to be said about the measures, about the crown crisis, about your commitment to these things, there is no word here in the Project Decision. Here, no matter how much you talk about it, the Decision Project says other things. There is nothing about the crown crisis, there is nothing about the measures for the National Assembly to work better either under any other regime or to sit through a place or something else. There's no such thing! There's talk of some people who wait every morning to give you the quorum, to be entitled to some kind of speech. Why did it come to this? Well, you know very well. Because the goal of the opposition and of the Bulgarian citizens is that one part of them, over 60%, is the government to go away, and if you had done so May, June, July, October, Bulgaria would have had a new parliament with a new government that would have been here and would have solved the problems of the state. You sink every day. If today Misho Hristov gives you the quorum, tomorrow two will have to give it, the day after tomorrow three, but after ten days there will be no 63rds.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u109	Time, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u110	You don't have a majority, do you understand?! You don't have a problem with the crown crisis! 121 is not 161.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u111	Time, time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u112	I don't know, Borisov waited 160 votes he can't collect 120. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u113	Thank you. The third line is Mr. Kostadinov. Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u114	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bikov, I have listened carefully to your hypotheses about why we do not want this vote of mistrust. At three points, what you didn't understand and why you were wrong. We do not want you to leave or we are against the establishment of a separate parliamentary group, but we want to see how far your insolence and your final decisions will go in your desire to remain in power, because there is no doubt about any MP the destructive sense of being divided into a group of people who no longer represent their constituents, what can lead to Bulgarian democracy. The second thing you haven't understood, Mr. Bikov, as our reason why we're against it, is that if we compare you to the coronavirus, you're scarier than the coronavirus. Because you're accusing us of teaming up with the coronavirus. What you have done as a damage to the Bulgarian society in economic, social, democratic and with regard to the freedom of citizens, the coronavirus has not yet done it. Needless to say, you have put the question of hospitals entirely without justification. We saw people die in front of hospitals because they couldn't be accepted. It's an extremely unfortunate example. [[Noise and lines from OP.]] And last but not least, because I'm running out of time... I don't pay attention, Madam President, to those Aslans who call out. But, Mr. Bikov, the last people who can give moral lessons from this tribune are people like you, Mrs. Sacheva, and Anton, who was your colleague. We have repeatedly criticised Mr. Borisov and GERB, but we have never allowed ourselves to say such things about him as you said in 2012 and 2013, which is a shame for you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u115	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u116	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Kostadinov, the morals of this tribune do not preach, and I will not preach, because I believe this is not the place to be done. For me, morality is in the church, specifically in the Orthodox Church. It's probably somewhere else for you. Mr. Svilenski, yesterday there was no quorum not because the ruling majority fell apart, not because some of the MPs left the ruling majority and dropped their trust in the government. There was no Quorum, because there are also among us, and among you there are sick people of the Coronavirus. Some of them in severe condition, and none of them can come here to register. I don't see anything political about this. You keep courting the coronavirus like you're gonna rule with it, and with it you can't control it. With DPS, it can be controlled, but with the coronavirus, it can't. court your potential partners, DPS, Democratic Bulgaria, Trio, Mrio, I don't know who all of them, but not the coronavirus, because it won't help you, I'm telling you now. Mr. Popov's line will leave no comment. I hope a little bit of getting over this charade you've fallen into, and if you're not helpful, at least don't stop us from doing our job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u117	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. Come in, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u118	Madam President, honourable Members! Now we have explained the lack of morality, from the stands of GERB kept it obviously only for the church. [[Radio.]] I'm serious now. This is a matter of political representation and of democracy, and it is not true that the situation is about the coronavirus. We have seen that a Constitution in Bulgaria is worth two beaches, that is, GERB has long had no votes to adopt important decisions, bills, provide a quorum and resort to all kinds of methods of political auctioning and allush-verish. This is another example in this direction. The honest position on the part of the government would be to say clearly that they do not have votes to start the meeting, they do not have votes to ensure a quorum, they do not have votes to work. This is a problem because they do not have political representation. Leave the sociologists that give over 60% support for early elections, more than 60% support for protests, more than 60% support in the public for the government's resignation. In fact, we are already dealing with simple mathematics here. In this House there is no clear majority to govern the state. The governors provide it with some strange and unprincipled contracts. The question remains, at what cost? On the conscience of the colleagues sitting in the back, there remains the other one. Some of them have not spent as much time in this Chamber as they are currently spending in order to secure the majority of GERB. I'm sorry, it's a matter only their conscience can solve. You won't solve this issue today, you won't solve it tomorrow. You will remain delegated and you will not hide it behind the motive that now, in the crisis, because of the people, you are doing it because you remain equally inadequate. And the coronavirus can't be an indulgence in that regard. For eight months, in March, we spoke to you for the first time from this tribune that private hospitals do not accept patients with coronavirus. We've been talking about the same thing since March. And when a young person in Bulgaria left, left without a bed in a hospital, your minister angry came out on the air angry, strict and fair, said he stopped the money of private hospitals. He found out the guy in the media, now he just found out. This is an act of political hypocrisy. In fact, we do not see in this crisis what you contribute to, apart from making things worse.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u119	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Mr. Nedyalkov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u120	Madam President, honourable Members! The debate is not exactly on the topic of this debate, which you mostly have on the right hand side, with a brainstorm and with an explanation of why you are doing it. I would like to tell you, because you have raised the issue of morality, nothing prevents the people to whom you call for the quorum to make provision of it, and without changing the rules, if they have any other morals, if they state any morality, except those parliamentary forces, who do not provide the opposition, which does not provide the quorum. With this debate you legitimized that really the deal is the biggest thing that can be done now. And since you have been in a hurry as always, the texts of the Rules of Procedure that are being proposed and which the Commission has confirmed yesterday will create problems for the management of the National Assembly in their implementation. My appeal is to the President of the Committee on Legal Affairs: to withdraw this proposal and this report, because these texts complicate their presence in these Rules. They don't contribute anything. It has been said here that it is these texts of the Rules that are caused by the crown crisis, which is absolutely absurd. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u121	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Popov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u122	Thank you, Madam President! Dear Mr. Nedyalkov, you know, it is notably known that the most sustainable business figure is complicity. Today, we are witnessing exactly this assistance in changing the Rules of Procedure. You correctly call for the withdrawal of the draft decision, but they will not because the subject of the deal, dear Mr Nedyalkov, is the following: more time for speeches against the parliamentary group of BSP by the United Patriarchs, GERB and their new partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u123	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u124	Dear Madam President, thank you for giving me my word on the duvet. Dear Mr. Popov, this is what I focused on at the beginning of the speech the guarantee of the quorum in the National Assembly could have been done without this deal if there was a new morality. [[Reply from the OP: "If BSP stood in the hall. "]] The BSP in the Chamber could have been a response to the line, and could have participated in the debates, as long as the situation in the country had not said that this Parliament was exhausted and it had no more future.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u125	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u126	Madam President, my procedure is as follows: I believe that all the reasons for the proposal were put forward in the Chamber. I propose that the debate be suspended and that we proceed to a vote on the point at issue. [[Noise and lines in BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u127	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Mr. Svilensky, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u128	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Angelov, you are proposing a procedure on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. Come on, take these rules and read them! Three and a half years you are a MP in this term and before that, read the Rules! It is clearly written how long the parliamentary groups have, it is clearly written when the debates can be terminated. Well, let's stick to it! If we don't break it, at least keep what it says inside. Four years have passed, you have not learned these Rules that the parliamentary groups have time that you will now give time to the non-members. Read it! There clearly writes how long you, we, GERB, all. Stop breaking the rules!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u129	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Let me just say that we're working as a second reading since...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u130	There's no such thing! In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 58 is clearly written in art. Also
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u131	...go to one reading and work on a second reading procedure. [[Loud noise and lines from OP.]] Colleagues, I'm voting on Mr. Angelov's procedure to end the debate. They voted 143 MPs: 100, against 41, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the name.. Decision to supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly........................................................................................ Vote 148 MPs: 104, against 40, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 1 supported by the Commission. Vote 149 MPs: 103, against 44, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u132	There was a proposal from MP Hamid Hamid Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u133	It wasn't serious. Please! I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 2 supported by the Commission. Vote 150 MPs: 103, against 46, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the created division with the name of the Final provision and the creation of a new § 3. They voted 143 MPs: for 102, against 41, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. And now we are going to vote on the draft decision in full.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u134	Vote 148 MPs: for 103, against 45, no abstentions. All texts put to the vote have been adopted. I'll ask Mr. Tishev, put your mask on properly! I see Mr. Mirchev picked up the mask this time. Thank you. Let's move on to the next point: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEEDING PROCEDURAL AND PROCEDURAL RULES FOR PRESENTATION AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF CANDID DOCUMENTS FOR THE PRESENT OF THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COUNCIL PRESENTED BY THE MINISTER COUNCIL, HIS HEARING IN THE COMMISSION OF TRUDA, SOCIAL AND DEMOGRAPHIC POLICY, AND THE PROCEEDING PROCEDURE OF PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the importer. Mr. Ademov, come in, you have the floor to introduce us to the Report and the Project Decision, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a decision to adopt Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions of presentation and public disclosure of the documents of the candidate for President of the Economic and Social Council proposed by the Council of Ministers, his hearing in the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at a meeting held on 28 October 2020 discussed and discussed a draft decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions of presentation and public disclosure of the documents of the candidate for Chairman of the Economic and Social Council proposed by the Council of Ministers, his hearing in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. The adoption of the Rules of Procedure is necessary due to a proposal from the Council of Ministers for Chairman of the Economic and Social Council on 15 October. In accordance with art. 7, para. 2 of the Law on the Economic and Social Council The National Assembly should elect a new Chairman of the Economic and Social Council. After the discussion and the vote held with results: 13 votes for........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following draft decision (with the four annexes of declarations accompanying it): Project! DECISION adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions of presentation and public disclosure of the documents of the candidate for Chairman of the Economic and Social Council proposed by the Council of Ministers and his hearing in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. 7, para. 2 of the Economic and Social Council Act and art. 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions of presentation and public disclosure of the documents of the candidate for Chairman of the Economic and Social Council proposed by the Council of Ministers, its hearing in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. I. Presentation of documents by the candidate for Chairman of the Economic and Social Council proposed by the Council of Ministers. 1. Within 3 days of the adoption of this Decision, the candidate for Chairman of the Economic and Social Council proposed by the Council of Ministers of the National Assembly on 15 October 2020, shall submit the following documents: (a) written consent under art. 27, para. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the Declaration of Membership of Bulgarian Citizens to State Security and the Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army according to Annex 1 to the Decision; (b) a detailed CV; (c) a certified copy of a diploma for completed higher education; (d) a declaration in accordance with Annex 2 to the Decision in a template. 2. The circumstances of art. 9, para. 1, t. 11 of the Law on the Economic and Social Council is established by the administration of the National Assembly. II. Public disclosure of the Council of Ministers' proposal for a candidate for Chairman of the Economic and Social Council and the documents presented. 1. The submitted proposal, together with the documents submitted under Section I, shall be published on a specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly no later than 3 days before the hearing of the candidate. 2. The publication of the proposal and documents shall be carried out in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act. 3. Non-profit legal entities registered for public use activities and professional organisations may submit opinions on the proposed candidate to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy no later than 3 days before the hearing of the applicant, including questions to be asked. 4. In terms of t. 3 mass media may send questions to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy to the candidate to be asked. 5. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. 6. The opinions and questions are sent by post to the city of Sofia, Knyaz Square, Alexander I "No," Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Commission, or by e-mail: ktsdp@parliament.bg. The opinions and questions are published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly, subject to the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. III. Perform a preliminary check under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. 1. The applicant shall be checked for belonging to the bodies referred to in Article 1. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The request for prior verification under art. 27, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army is made by the Chairman of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. 2. The result of the verification shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly. IV. Hearing of the candidate for Chairman of the Economic and Social Council. 1. Before listening to the proposed candidate, the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee shall check the documents submitted and whether they meet the requirements for taking up the post. The Commission may request additional information from both the applicant and a relevant competent authority. 2. The hearing of the admitted candidate is held in an open meeting of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee, which is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. 3. The applicant shall be represented by the applicant's representative within 2 minutes. The presentation also includes details of specific preparation, motivation, public reputation and public support for the applicant. 4. The candidate shall present a concept of the activity of the Economic and Social Council within 10 minutes. 5. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee shall hold debates on the proposed application. Members of the National Assembly shall place their questions separately to the applicant within 2 minutes of a representative of the National Assembly. Upon completion of the questions asked by all MPs, the applicant shall answer within 10 minutes. 6. The Chairman of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy shall ask in summary the questions of the persons under art. 93, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to which no reply has been received. 7. A full stenographic protocol is drawn up from the hearing, which is published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. 8. The Commission shall draw up within the meaning of art. 93, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a report from the hearing of the candidate and submit it to the National Assembly. The report shall also be accompanied by a draft decision on the election of the candidate for Chairman of the Economic and Social Council. 9. The applicant's refusal to participate in the hearing shall terminate the procedure initiated by this Decision. V. Election of President of the Economic and Social Council of the National Assembly. 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. By decision of the National Assembly, the hearing candidate is present. 2. The National Assembly shall hear the report of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. 3. A representative of the importer shall present the candidate for Chairman of the Economic and Social Council within 2 minutes. 4. Discussions shall be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 5. The National Assembly shall elect a Chairman of the Economic and Social Council with a clear vote through the computerized voting system. 6. The candidate shall be elected if he has received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly. 7. If the candidate is not elected or refuses to participate in the election before the vote of his candidacy, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure after a proposal has been submitted again by the Council of Ministers as a candidate for Chairman of the Economic and Social Council. VI. Obligation to declare incompatibility under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 and a change in the declared circumstances under art. 35, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property. 1. Upon completion of the selection procedure under Section V, the elected President shall submit a declaration of incompatibility under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property in connection with art. 9, para. 1 of the Law on the Economic and Social Council in accordance with Annex 3 to the Decision. 2. In the event of a change in the declared circumstances of the declaration referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1, the customs authorities of the Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the European Union of the other Member States of the European Union of the other Member States of the European Union of the European Union and of the other Member States of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union, of the one part, of the one part, of the other part, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the one part, of the other part, of the other part, and of the other Annex 1 to the Decision, Annex 2 to the Decision, Annex 3 to the Decision and Annex 4 to the Decision follow.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u136	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the draft decision presented to you with the apps 1 to 4 that are unchanged to it included. Vote 81 MPs: 72 against 3, abstention 6. The proposed draft decision has been adopted. We continue with the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR PUBLIC FINLANDS. Mrs. Angelova, you are welcome to present the Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u137	Dear Mr. Chairman, I have previously asked, in accordance with the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, for admission in the plenary room of Rositsa Velkova, Deputy Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u138	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 82 MPs: 80, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite Mrs. Velkova to the hall. Please continue, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u139	♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act No 002-01-54 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 October 2020. At a regular meeting held on 29 October 2020, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. The bill was presented by Mrs. Rositsa Velkova, Deputy Minister of Finance. A key motive for the proposed legislative changes is consistency between the national digital fiscal rules laid down in the Public Finance Act and the rules resulting from the requirements of European law. Within the European Union, the derogation clause under the Stability and Growth Pact was activated which allowed during exceptional circumstances the budgetary effect of measures directly linked to the consequences of overcoming the pandemic to be excluded when the European Commission assessed compliance with the rules of the Pact. The proposed provisions are an adequate response to the challenges related to overcoming and overcoming the consequences of the worldwide pandemic of COVID-19 and the subsequent global economic crisis, which required a review of regulations and rules on fiscal policy and their flexibility. The adoption of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act aims at: - creating greater flexibility with regard to national fiscal rules in the event of exceptional circumstances; - clear definition of limitations and tolerances; - ensure that measures are implemented to limit and address the consequences of emergency situations. Changes are proposed in art. 25 and 26 of the Public Finance Act, which deals with the indicators of the sector of the government and the possible deviations in exceptional circumstances that are allowed in the applicable European legislation and the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact. In a similar way, changes to art. 27 and 28, which refer to the indicators of the consolidated fiscal programme on a cash-based basis, for possible deviations in exceptional circumstances. The restrictions on the cost rule and the deficit, respectively of 2% of GDP and 40% of GDP, are not changed but only the tolerances in exceptional circumstances are regulated. With the change in the provision of art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 2 of the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020 is given the opportunity to absorb external government debt under favourable financial conditions under EU instruments, including the use of loans under the European Temporary Support Instrument in order to mitigate the risks of unemployment in exceptional circumstances. The proposed bill does not deviate from the requirements of Council Directive 2011/85/EU of 8 November 2011 on the requirements of the budgetary frameworks of the Member States, which was introduced by the adoption of the Public Finance Act in 2013. The part of the changes relating to fiscal rules and restrictions is coordinated in an operational manner with the European Commission. After the discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act, No 002-01-54, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 October 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. The next report is from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Here you go, Mr. Dinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u141	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act No 002-01-54 submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 29 October 2020, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act, No 002-01-54, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 October 2020. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Nadezhda Genova, Director of the Directorate of Municipal Finance at the Ministry of Finance. The main reasons for the proposed amendments and additions to the Public Finance Act are the introduction of rules for temporary deviation from the limitations of national fiscal rules in certain emergency situations in order to limit their pro-cyclical influence. The adoption of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act aims to create greater flexibility with regard to national fiscal rules in the event of exceptional circumstances, clear definition of limitations and tolerances, ensuring the implementation of measures to limit and address the consequences of emergency situations. The proposed changes allow, in exceptional circumstances outside the control of the Council of Ministers, having a serious impact on the financial position of the sector of the government, the deficit of the sector of the government on an annual basis to exceed 3 per cent of the gross domestic product. The situation with the outbreak of a COVID-19 pandemic has clearly shown that unusual events can lead both to the failure of the medium-term budgetary objective for the structural deficit on an annual basis and to an increase in costs above the reference growth of the potential gross domestic product, which is eligible as an exception under the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact. The proposed changes are in line with the intentions of adherence to the conservative fiscal policy carried out in recent years, which contributes to maintaining government debt at low levels and ensuring liquidity buffers in the fiscal reserve without creating additional risks to the sustainability of public finances. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 10 votes............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u142	Thank you, Mr. Dinev. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. I don't see any speeches. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting it to the vote. [[noise and lines]] Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act No 002-01-54, submitted by the Council of Ministers. [[Noise and lines. National Representative Georgi Turnovalyski wants a procedure and is approaching the stand.]] Please, voting mode. [[Comments from GERB: We are in a voting procedure. Negative vote "Replication of the National Representative Georgi Turnovaliyski: "You do not give me the floor. "]] I'm sorry, but we're in the middle of a vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u143	I'm sorry, you didn't see me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u144	I've seen the hall, I assure you. [[(Comments from GERB: We are in a voting procedure!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u145	... So I have a right to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u146	Okay, we're not arguing right now. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u147	You don't give me the floor, do you?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u148	I'll give you the floor afterwards, if you want a negative vote, but now I can't give the floor, we're in voting mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u149	You've outdone...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u150	No! I saw no one there.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u151	But watch this. This is your job.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u152	Okay, I'm not gonna explain myself from here. Then you can challenge my decision, but please do as the Rules require.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u153	You're not doing the job you're being assigned here. I'm up, I'm up.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u154	Now don't give me...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u155	That you don't want to have a debate...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u156	Don't give me an evaluation, please! I'll give you the floor then to disagree with the way I lead. [[Noise and lines.]] Have all the MPs been able to vote? You don't make it! Abort the vote. I will again put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act, No 002-01-54, submitted by the Council of Ministers. [[Replication by National Representative Georgi Turnovaliyski: "Speech! " You put him through again, now I have to take and speak. You again................................]] No, you're wrong. It's not the procedure. Please call off the vote. Vote 78 Members of the Parliament: for " 71," against "7" abstentions, there is none. The motion is accepted. Negative vote, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u157	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Leading the meeting, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! We in the Group of Progressive Socialists voted against the Law amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act for several reasons, the main of which is that after 10 years the ruling majority acknowledged the mistake made by former Minister Djankov, who introduced in the State Budget Structure Act the rules for no more than 2% deficit. After 10 years, despite many opinions from experts that during a crisis, measures of austerity could not be introduced and that there should be more funds being poured into the economy, you admitted that then the post pizza was a huge mistake. Therefore, we, the Group of Progressive Socialists, cannot support this project and we believe that this is a very late measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u158	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. The way you're holding Mr. Turnovallisky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u159	Mr. Chairman, I really wish I could turn to you with respectable people. But after what you have done, there is no way you have not allowed a Member of the National Assembly to speak on such an important topic. I believe that it is particularly important at this time in a budgetary procedure for a change in the most essential and most important law in this procedure. You rushed these tricks and parliamentary moves, Mr. Chairman, will not help anyone. They won't help you, they won't help your political power. I am aware that what I was going to say in this House would not have been understood, nor would it have been accepted, but this approach on your part as President, as the first among equals, will weigh only on your conscience for what you have done today. Because the law is important. Because here it should be clearly and categorically said that what you are doing today with this law will violate the fiscal discipline in the country, which Bulgaria has been bragging about for many years about the good financial discipline. Yes, I welcome the fact that the most important thing that was in this bill was withdrawn because it envisaged the redistribution of expenditure, which would have happened behind the back of the National Assembly once again. So, Mr. Chairman, I am infinitely disappointed in the way you lead, and I cannot address you with respectables!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u160	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The way you're leading it? I just need to answer Mr. Turnovallisky's question. I'm sorry, but sometimes the President, whoever he is, is hardly covering the audience. But since you yourself have noted that this is an important law, I would like some help from the MPs, not to wait for the last moment. It is not the first time that someone raises his hand after the President closes the debate. That's why I'm asking for understanding. I am sorry for the procedure that this has happened, which does not, however, justify the personal attitude you have in the stands, but this is your decision, I will try to understand you. Again, in the manner of conduct, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u161	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members! I am addressing you and paying attention to the following. More than a minute and a half, between a minute and a half and two by raising your hand from place to place through a voice statement of a desire to speak from colleague Turnovalysky to that by raising your hand and moving on the steps for one minute, coming here before you, only then you saw him. To all your duties, which have been replaced by the Rules of Procedure, you have not paid attention to the desire to vote, you have not given him the floor, and for me it was a mystery, Mr. Chairman, why is that so? From the procedure in the manner of Mr. Turnovalyski's conduct I understood why this is because on an extremely important topic you watched more than two minutes without reacting. The esteemed Mr. Simeonov paid attention to you that there was a desire to speak MPs, but you did not react. This makes you, Mr. President, an accessory to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and the opposite is why you are the sword of justice, the balance, the sustainable stone to sustain this building at the time of the sitting, you have become an accomplice to the destruction of this thing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u162	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. The way you're leading it?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u163	Dear Mr. Hristov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! You did not allow a debate, an opinion on the proposal for amendment and supplement to the Public Finance Act. The austerity policy is already in the past with this proposal and you had to understand your motives as importers, to understand why at the end of the mandate suddenly in the last budget, which is election, you are ready to change the Public Finance Act, to loosen the purse to get the favor of the Bulgarian electoral to vote your trust again. In order not to throw you out of the political scene, it was necessary to give the opportunity to hear that it was at the end of the first term of office Borisov 1 Bulgarian citizens were on the street with a clear, loud statement: Dolu, Dyankov! Down with GERB! "But you did not allow a debate in the parliamentary hall to become clear your intentions, which you are trying to get the favor of the Bulgarian citizens. That won't help you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u164	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Mrs. Naydenova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u165	Yet, dear Mr. Chairman, I think you have made a mistake this time, perhaps unconsciously, perhaps consciously. I am watching very carefully the so-called debate that has not taken place, and I think that in a voting procedure for a long enough time Mr. Turnovalysky has been close here to the stand, and you can calmly respect him, respecting him as also a Member of Parliament, and as a person who does not care about elementary things, you could stop the vote and listen to him. The fact is, there were no other willing ones, and I was expecting them. I just want to tell you that if this happens between the first and second votes, things are not going to be good. I am very sorry for what has happened, and I want to tell you that you should listen very carefully to the opposition from now on because it does not work against the interests of the state. I suppose that between first and second reading there will be some proposals that will be well thought out as long as the government listens well. I'm sorry there was no debate. I guess you're sorry about what happened, too. Not everyone takes the floor like that on a small matter, there are no specialists. Mrs. Menda Stoyanova and Mr. Turnovalysky are one of the best specialists in this room. Hopefully, at the next second reading, it really becomes a good debate that everyone has. Once again, I regret that you failed to see Mr. Turnovalysky with all his stature here. I think that if you had complied with his wishes, you didn't look at him as some opposition, things would have been different.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u166	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. I've already expressed my regrets for not having a debate, it's possible. [[Relation from the National Representative Dimitar Danchev.]] Thank you for not showing any personal treatment. Thirty minutes off the job. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u167	Dear Members of Parliament, we continue with the National Assembly's Work Programme. The next item is: The amount to be reported in this column shall be the amount to be reported in this row. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance You have the floor, Mrs. Angelova, to present the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, No 002-01-57, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 October 2020. At a meeting held on 29 October 2020, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, No 002-01-57, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 October 2020. The bill was presented by Mrs. Rositsa Velkova, Deputy Minister of Finance. The bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act is drawn up in relation to the need to introduce changes relating to the introduction into national legislation of the provisions of Directive (EU) 2017/2455...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u169	Excuse me, Mrs. Angelova, can I just have a minute? [[References between the President and the rapporteur.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u170	... to the Council of 5 December 2017 amending Council Directive 2006/112/EC and Directive 2009/132/EC as regards certain obligations applicable to the supply of services and distance sales of goods? Directive (EU) 2017/2455, and Council Directive (EU) 2019/1995 of 21 November 2019 amending Directive (EU) 2006/112/EC as regards the provisions relating to distance sales of goods and certain inland supplies of goods. The introduction of new provisions covering: intra-Community remote sales of goods; remote sales of goods imported from third countries or territories; internal remote sales and supplies facilitated by a person managing an electronic interface, as well as changes relating to the threshold and setting a place of execution for supplies of intra-Community remote sales of goods and supplies of telecommunications services, of radio and television broadcasting services and of services carried out electronically. It is proposed to introduce new rules relating to the application of a Union regime and a non-Union regime for the supply of telecommunications services, broadcasting services or electronic services. A new regime shall be introduced for remote sales of goods imported from third countries or territories which may apply to goods in the form of consignments of their own value not exceeding the levity equivalent of EUR 150, except for goods taxable on excise duty where their imports take place in any Member State and irrespective of which Member State they are intended. A new arrangements are proposed to declare and postpone payment of the import tax, which may be applied by persons who are not registered for the application of a distance sales regime for goods imported from third countries or territories in the form of consignments of their own value not exceeding the equivalent of EUR 150. A proposal has been made to refine the exemption from the value added tax of insurance and reinsurance services. This aims to eliminate the incompatibility of the national provision established by the European Commission with the provisions of Council Directive 2006/112/EC of 28 November 2006 on the common system of value added tax. Changes in art. 118 related to the requirements for sales management software in sales outlets. In order to promote voluntary compliance with tax insurance legislation, it is proposed that the use of the ATT be maintained, but as a voluntary measure and the choice by the trader. The Transitional and Final Provisions of the Bill have amended and supplemented tax and other laws as follows: The Law on excises and tax warehouses amended the provision of art. 22 of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses relating to the application of the conditions for the refund of the excise duty paid for ethyl alcohol put into the production of medicinal products within the meaning of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine and Veterinary Medicinal Products within the meaning of the Act on Veterinary Practice. It's full of art. 24b of the Bill in order to clearly regulate that, in the course of the procedure for issuing an excise-free end-user certificate, the competent administrative authorities have an obligation to take samples for laboratory analysis that they can perform at any stage of the production process. The provision of art. 43, para. 5 in order to avoid difficulties in determining the last tax period in the case of a decision to terminate a licence/registered which has been suspended and subsequently entered into force after a judicial appeal. In relation to the activities of the preparation of the Office of Customs, changes are proposed in art. 44 of the Bill. A legal framework shall be established to deal with cases where, where appropriate, authorised warehousekeepers and, subject to certain conditions, may exceed the security specified and provided for the tax warehouse. An addition to the existing conditions for registration under art. 57a, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law in relation to para. 10 to the same provision. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 76b of the Law is created new para. 4 and 5 which optimize the administrative activity in view of the amount of the obligations established in a separate tax period, as well as the conditional need to avoid difficulties in issuing acts for which the respective excise duty is paid in the country. The provision of art. 104 of the Law, in order to use the same terminology for customs officers. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 128 is created a new para. 5 which aims at overcoming conflicting caselaw as regards the determination of the place where the infringement took place in relation to the prohibition on the publication of notices and communications by which excise goods are offered for sale as well as tobacco waste. The Law on Corporate Income Tax makes the following amendments and additions: the period for the application of the tax relief in the performance of production activities in municipalities with unemployment higher than the national average until 31 December 2023 is extended. The period for the implementation of the Regional State Aid Guidelines for the period 2014-2020 is extended in relation to which the application of the tax relief under art. 189 of the CCR until 31 December 2021 The tax relief referred to in art. 184 of the Corporate Income Tax Act can be used until 31 December 2021 following a decision by the European Commission to extend the duration of the scheme SA.39869 (2014/N) - Bulgaria. Reschedule of advance contributions to corporate tax shall not be allowed until the date of the decision of the European Commission, provided that the same is after 31 December 2020. The deferred tax for 2019 and 2020 in relation to art. 189b, para. 2, p. 1 of the Law on Corporate Income Tax is invested in new buildings and new agricultural equipment needed to carry out the one referred to in art. 189b, para. 1 of the Law on Corporate Income Tax Activity by the end of the second year following the year for which the transfer is used. This hypothesis applies only after a positive decision (receipt) has been given by the European Commission to change the terms of the scheme SA.41183 (2015/HA) - Aid for investments in agricultural holdings through the transfer of corporate tax. A shift is proposed on the date for the submission of the annual tax returns under the CCCA and for the payment of the relevant taxes from 1 March to 30 June. As a result of the modification of the deadline, it is also necessary to synchronise related provisions in the Law on advance contributions and the manner in which they are determined. The deadline for declaring changes in advance tax shall be 15 November. In view of the introduction of a legal opportunity to organise a growth market within the meaning of art. 122, para. 1 of the Financial Instruments Markets Act provides for equalisation in the tax treatment regime of income from disposal of financial instruments and interest income from bonds and other debt securities traded on a regulated market with those traded on a growth market. The proposal provides for a limited period of five years for provisions relating to tax relief relating to a regulated market to apply to a growth market. The Law on personal income taxes provides for a change in relation to the need to synchronise the provisions of the LDC with those of the Personal Data Protection Act. The rules concerning the obligation of natural persons to issue documents when carrying out a business activity or receiving rental income shall be revised, eliminating the need to issue a document when the payment is made on a bank basis. In relation to the introduction of a legal opportunity to organise a growth market within the meaning of art. 122, para. 1 of the Financial Instruments Markets Act provides for the equalisation of the regime of the current tax treatment of natural persons' incomes by disposal of financial instruments and incomes from bonds or other debt securities admitted to trading on a regulated market with those admitted to trading on a growth market. With regard to the displacement of the date for the declaration and payment of the annual taxes to legal persons under the terms of the CCCO, the period for declaring and paying the annual taxes to persons engaged in business as traders within the meaning of the Commercial Law, including sole traders or natural persons registered as farmers who chose their business income to be taxed on the annual tax base. There is also the introduction of a new kind of relief for individuals when using repair services. The aim of the tax relief is for natural persons who during the year have made improvements and repairs in their own homes to be able to reduce the total amount of their annual tax base by the actual labour costs paid by them to the natural or legal persons who have incurred the repairs or improvements of up to two thousand levs. The Law on Local Taxes and Fees provides that the requirement to present the certificate under art. 54a, para. 3 of the Cadastral and Property Register Act, as the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral Agency provides access to the Cadastral Information System of the Authorities that bring the objects into operation for official inspection. In relation to problems identified in determining the tax on the acquisition of motor vehicles, an addition to cases where the tax is not due is proposed. With the inclusion of cases of terminated registration on export grounds or total damage, it is intended to determine the unique determination of the cases of terminated registration where the registration of the motor vehicle should not be renewed, with the exception applied only if there is no subsequent registration. Under the Accounting Act, proposals are editorial and are imposed for the purpose of full compliance with European legislation, in particular with Directive 2014/95/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council, as well as with regard to the change in the time limits for the submission of annual tax returns under the CCCI and the CDCL. The amendments to the time limits for declaring the tax, respectively for the publication of the annual financial statements, also lead to changes relating to those deadlines, respectively in the Commercial Law, in the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities, in the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, in the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Corporate Income Tax. After the discussion, the members of the Budget and Finance Committee expressed their principled support for the draft proposed by concluding its discussion with the following results: 14 votes...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u171	Thank you. You have the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u172	Dear Mr. Chairman, I ask for a procedure under the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly in the Chamber to be allowed Mrs. Lyudmila Petkova Director of the Tax Policy Directorate in the Ministry of Finance. Rositsa Velkova, Deputy Minister of Finance, was admitted at the previous point.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u173	Thank you. I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 87 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you are, dear Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u174	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, No 002-01-57, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 October 2020. The Commission on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 4 November 2020 examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act No 002-01-57. The meeting was attended by Rositsa Velkova, Deputy Minister of Finance, and Ludmila Petkova, Director of the Tax Policy Directorate at the Ministry of Finance. The bill was presented by Mrs Velkova. According to the importer, the purpose of the proposed bill is to introduce in national tax legislation the requirements of Council Directive (EU) 2017/2455 amending Council Directive 2006/112/EC and Directive 2009/132/EC as regards certain VAT obligations applicable to supplies of goods and services and remote sales of goods and Council Directive (EU) 2019/1995 on remote sales and certain domestic supplies of goods. The amendments to art. 118 aim to alleviate business in the application of the laws and regulations requirements for reporting sales in commercial sites by reducing the administrative burden associated with the fulfilment of the performance requirements of the GMP. The transitional and final provisions of the Bill propose changes to a number of tax laws which are related to extending the period of some tax reductions and levelling the tax treatment of the same types of income, precision of provisions in order to improve tax legislation and editorial changes in relation to the difficulties encountered in the practical application of certain provisions. Under the Law on excises and tax warehouses, it is necessary to supplement the current legislation by: clearly regulating the procedure for issuing an excise-free final consumer certificate; setting out the legal standard for determining the last tax period upon termination of a licence/registered; the need to reduce the administrative burden and to allow economic operators to use a bank account to repay their excise duties; the need for a clear definition of the person subject to registration for the purposes of excise legislation; creating an opportunity for licensed warehousekeepers who do not have obligations to obtain authorisation to exceed the security provided for the tax warehouse; regulating the order for certification of the place of supply and origin of fuels. Under the Corporate Income Tax Act: the duration of the tax relief is extended, which constitutes minimal aid under the CCCI; the period for declaring the advance contributions due to corporate tax for the relevant year is changed; the tax treatment of the same incomes from financial instruments from which they originate depends on whether they are traded on a regulated market or growth market. Under the Law on Income Taxes, natural persons are created: refined rules concerning the obligation of natural persons to issue documents when carrying out business or receiving rent income. In relation to the creation of a growth market, it is necessary to achieve equal tax treatment of bond income and financial instruments, trading on a regulated market and on a growth market. The provisions of the Law are synchronized with those of the Personal Data Protection Act. Under the Law on Local Taxes and Fees: for the purposes of the property tax, the completion of a building or parts thereof to be established except with a certificate of entry into service or a permit for use issued under the Law on Construction of the territory, and with the presentation of a certificate under the Law on Cadastral and Property Register. The amendments proposed in the Bill do not provide for the establishment of regulatory regimes and new registers. A preliminary impact assessment, as well as those required under Article, has been applied to the Bill. 76 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In the subsequent discussion, the public representative Hristo Prodanov expressed the opinion that the practice continued to be vicious in one tax law to change everyone else. In this way, the changes that are acceptable to the MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. People's representative Adlen Shevked expressed an opinion on incorrectness in the revenue part of the 2022 programming budget due to the significantly lower base of profit tax realised in 2020. She also raised questions about tax reductions in the peripherals of the SUPTO. Following the conclusion of the discussion and voting with results:..... 12 votes...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u175	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. Following is the Commission's report on monitoring revenue agencies and combating the grey economy and smuggling. Mr. Nikolov, please submit the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u176	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, No 002-01-57, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 October 2020. At its extraordinary meeting on 3 November 2020, the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling discussed the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Value Added Tax Act, No 002-01-57, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 October 2020. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Finance: Rositsa Velkova Deputy Minister of Finance, and Ludmila Petkova Director of the Department of Tax Policy. The bill was presented by Mrs. Rositsa Velkova, Deputy Minister of Finance, who introduced the MPs to the main changes. The draft is intended to introduce into national law the provisions of Directive 2017/2455 and Directive 2019/1995 applicable to cross-border e-commerce between taxable and non-taxable persons. All Member States should introduce the requirements of the Directives by 30 June 2021 at the latest by introducing rules for intra-Community distance sales of goods; for distance sales of goods imported from third countries or territories; for domestic distance sales; for supplies facilitated by a person managing an electronic interface. Changes concerning sales management software in commercial sites are proposed, namely to maintain their use, but as a voluntary measure and option by the trader and not as an obligation, providing for a number of incentives and reliefs for the users of the software traders. In the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Draft Law changes are initiated in a number of legal acts. The Law on excises and tax warehouses, the Law on corporate income taxation, the Law on local taxes and fees, the Law on taxes on personal incomes. The amendments to the Law on excises and tax warehouses concern a reduction of the administrative burden for economic operators, as well as changes of legal and technical nature. As regards the Corporate Income Tax Act, an extension is proposed until 31 December 2023 of the period of validity of the current tax relief for the operation of production activities in municipalities with unemployment higher than the national average, as well as an extension of the period for the investment of the deferred tax in applying State aid to farmers. Secondly, a proposal is made for an amendment within the period for declaring and paying the annual taxes under the Law of 31 March of 30 June, and a starting date of 1 March is also introduced. In this respect and in order to synchronise the provisions of the law, changes relating to corporate tax advance are also proposed so that the relevant provisions are compatible with the new period for declaring and paying the annual corporate tax. The Law on income taxes of natural persons has made a change in relation to clearer rules concerning the obligation of natural persons to issue documents when carrying out business or receiving rental income. With regard to persons engaged in business as traders within the meaning of the Commercial Law, including sole trader or natural persons registered as farmers who have chosen the income from their business to be taxed on the annual tax base, it is proposed that they submit an annual tax return on their income from business between 1 March and 30 June. The introduction of a new type of relief for persons using repair services is proposed in order to reduce the share of the grey economy and prevent the opportunities for concealment of turnover and revenue from repairers. The Law on Local Taxes and Fees, for the purposes of property tax, proposes to waive the requirement to present the certificate provided for in the Law on Cadastral and Property Register relating to the establishment of the completion of a building or part thereof, as well as the removal of the tax on the acquisition of motor vehicles upon termination of registration on grounds of export or total damage. During the subsequent discussion of the Bill, the People's Representative Julian Angelov briefed the members of the Commission with the opinion of the Bulgarian Oil and Gas Association and expressed principle support for the proposal to be submitted between the two readings. Following the discussion and the vote held with 9 votes for the vote, 7 votes against and without abstention, the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and the Fight against the Grey Economy and Smuggling proposes that the National Assembly adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax, No 002-01-57, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 October 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u177	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. The next report is from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. You're welcome to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u178	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, No 002-01-57, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 29 October 2020, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, No 002-01-57, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 October 2020. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mrs. Petya Kopcheva, Head of the Department of Tax Policy at the Ministry of Finance, which focused on the changes made with the Transitional and Final Provisions in the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. One of the changes is related to the requirement laid down in the Law for the purposes of the property tax, the completion of a building or parts thereof to be established, except with a certificate of entry into service or authorisation for use issued under the Law on Construction in the territory, and with the presentation of a certificate under the Law on Cadastral and Property Register. With the change it is proposed to waive the requirement to present the certificate under the order of the Cadastre Act and the property register. The proposal is related to a change in the relevant provision of the Law on Cadastral and Property Register in 2019, according to which the requirement for the introduction of the constructions into operation of the owner, respectively the contracting entity, to present a certificate issued by the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral Agency that the data to be reported is laid down in the Cadastral Map and Cadastral Registers. Instead, the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral Agency shall provide access to the Cadastral Information System for the bodies that put the objects into service to carry out official verification of their presence in the Cadastral Map and Cadastral Registers. In this respect, the certificate of entry into service or the authorisation for use is sufficient to verify the completion of a building or part of it, since before its issue the bodies which put the construction into service are obliged to carry out an official inspection in the information system of the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral Agency. In this way, the administrative burden for taxable persons and the administration will be reduced and the quality of the services and activities provided in the administrative service process will be increased. Next and in relation to the problems identified in determining the tax on the acquisition of motor vehicles, an addition to cases where the tax is not due is proposed. With the inclusion of cases of terminated registration on an export basis or total damage, it is intended to identify unambiguously the cases of terminated registration in which the registration of the motor vehicle should not be renewed. In order to avoid avoiding this condition, it is explicitly stated that the exemption from taxation applies only if there is no subsequent registration of the motor vehicle by a new acquirer in the country. In this way, it is intended, on the one hand, to exclude from taxation cases where there is no subsequent registration of the motor vehicle and, on the other hand, to prevent the circumvention of legal provisions and to avoid the payment of tax on the acquisition of motor vehicles. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 10 votes for the Council of Ministers, with no objection and 5 votes for the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, proposed to the National Assembly a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax, No 002-01-57, submitted by the Council of Ministers, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u179	Thank you, dear Mr. Dinev. I'm opening the debate. Mr. Tishev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u180	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to start by saying that, indeed, in the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the VAT Act, changes are mainly implemented in several Eurodirectives, which concern the remote supply of goods and services. Of course, there are also changes to other tax laws, which is standard practice when adopting the state budget at the end of the year. However, there are also changes in the Bill that do not concern either the state budget, the collection of taxes, or the directives of the European Union. In it there are some changes that we have repeatedly rejected, I mean our parliamentary group, over the last two years, and periodically the Ministry of Finance has tried to force them on Bulgarian retailers. What's this about? It is about the so-called SUPTO regulation, that is, the software for sales management in commercial sites. Perhaps many of you remember this is a saga that has been going on for two years with many legislative initiatives in the National Assembly by the Ministry of Finance and the NRA, with many protests from retailers, including with disagreement from software companies. Thank God, at the end of July, when a rockade was made in the management of the Ministry of Finance and Mr. Goranov left, and Minister of Finance became Mr. Ananiev, the position of the Ministry of Finance changed, namely the complete elimination of the current SUPTO regulation. This was also one of the first statements or statements by the new finance minister, who, at the end of July or early August, stated that the relevant changes to Regulation N-19 and the VAT Act would be made so that the sector could be calmed down, because these changes, as I said, were not accepted by any of the parties. And we have to admit that in the original Draft Law amending the VAT Act, which was presented for public discussion at the end of August, early September, these changes were laid down and this regulation was dropped. And they were welcomed by all sides in the public discussion that took place. However, just before the entry of the Bill into the National Assembly and before the review in the Committee on Budget and Finance, which is unknown from where, anonymously, were made the changes that leave the regulation for those who want. I mean, what do you get? If so far the state acted on the principle of the staff.. forcefully, smashing the small companies, first imposed a change of the cash registers, and then a change of software, we now move on to another phase of this process... now to those companies who agree to use the new software, or already use it, we will give them privileges, that is to move on to the stage of the carrot. First of all, I must say that these changes that are proposed are discriminatory. Why? There is no logical explanation that some companies using the new software will be granted tax relief, such as a faster VAT refund, a higher depreciation rate for software and hardware, including in the event of a first breach in the absence of a cash bond they will not be closed. All this does not apply to retailers who use cash registers using other software which is also licensed, which is also accepted by the NRA. Separately, what happens to businesses, companies that don't use cash registers, where their payments are only on a bank basis? This is about large enterprises and factories. They are also regular taxpayers, fulfilling all laws, paying their taxes, and ultimately do not fall under these favourable conditions that are provided to certain companies. And in the end, it turns out that everyone is supposed to be equal before the Law, but one of them seems to be more equal than the other. This is not only unacceptable for us, it is not fair. I am referring to our parliamentary group, and we have rejected such changes before, and this time will not support them either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u181	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. Are there lines? Here you are, dear Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tishev, you have neglected to say something very important to the parliamentary group of BSP two years straight to explain to us that what was proposed then by Mrs. Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs as a change in the Law on Value Added Tax, with the introduction of a vague, confused software, with a software that wanted to put a common denominator on all different types of business in the country. We said that this is the introduction of a regulation that only plagues the normal development of the Bulgarian business and that it will not contribute in any way to improving the collection of revenues in the state budget. This must be heard very clearly because it was then explained to us that this software will solve all the problems of the state treasury and that it will lighten the Bulgarian business. Where did these explanations go now and protect those same people who are sitting in this room? With this change now being proposed by them, will the collection improve? Ask them these questions. They have to answer that. Besides, is this how the regulation of the Bulgarian business changes today, tomorrow? After all, Bulgarian business is not circus artists. For these two years, business has spent millions of levs refurbishing its information systems to put new cash registers in order to meet these insane requirements that have put the government to them. And now it's called, well, if you want to, don't do it. And who will compensate them for these expenses? Please ask these questions to the government because this is the way the Bulgarian economy is managed in their hands.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u183	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. Is there another line? I can't see. Mr. Tishev, Mr. Danchev expressed essentially his consent to your vision, but you have the right to a duplicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u184	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Danchev, I accept your line. Perhaps I neglected to say that indeed a year and a half ago we had a very big debate here in the National Assembly. Then, if memory serves, these changes, by accident between first and second readings, were inserted into the Customs Act. Then we got into an argument, of course, with Mrs. Menda Stoyanova, because I also neglected to say that they, apart from being discriminatory, were lobbyists then, because these changes concerned only small retailers, and the large retail chains would not mention names, for retail were not affected by the system of payment and turnover reporting, it was not a party to these changes. On the one hand, lobbying changes, on the other hand, now include a discriminatory element. It's true when colleagues say that in the last two years, these retailers have been driving them crazy. They don't know when to follow the legislation. I have bothered to check for the last two years there are ten amendments to Bulgarian laws concerning this matter. Nevertheless, despite the expressed goodwill, I am talking to the Minister of Finance, who said that all of this would be abolished and indeed in the original bill there were such texts, i.e. texts concerning the SUPTO regulation, were repealed. We're back to phase one. Despite the big protests, although the industry organizations of small traders are also paying attention, the software companies for which this should be something positive, because they will sell their software and have declared against it, because the legislation has been so changed that it becomes too vague, including from the point of view of the tax administration's control functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u185	Thank you, dear Mr. Tishev. We continue with speeches. Mr. Lalo Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u186	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Deputy Minister, today we are looking at changes to the Value Added Tax Act and through it we are looking at absolutely all tax problems in the budget for the next fiscal year. We in the Progressive Socialist Parliamentary Group cannot support these changes mainly because a week ago, we introduced amendments to the Law on Income Tax on Individuals, which introduces a kind of non-taxable minimum for all who work on a minimum wage, they were given the opportunity, at the beginning of the next fiscal year, to recover advance tax on incomes only from wages. We believe that this law could also be used to view our proposal. We will make a proposal between first and second readings. At first reading, there is no way to support the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u187	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Are there lines? I won't. You have the floor, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for seeing me this time. Yes, the proposed Draft Law amending and supplementing the VAT Act is part of the budgetary procedure. This is practice, but in this case, the way in which this bill is introduced is a bad practice................................................................................................. Every year of this tribune, we state it is unacceptable that another five or six others will be changed in one bill that has nothing to do with the basic bill. This is your bad practice. I think it's gonna be like this for the last year. In essence, the submitted Bill. As regards the Value Added Tax Act, yes, the provisions of Directive are introduced. Here the colleagues talked about the repealed provisions of art. 118 for the introduction of sales management systems. One agony for two years. We warned about her. I will not repeat everything that has been said, but I will stress again the bad practice in which this change was introduced, again with a correction between the two readings in the Customs Act changed the Value Added Tax Act. Here's the result of the bad way we make legislation. Something that we must have at the moment, that also requires that the Law on the Law on the Laws... we have a follow-up assessment of the impact of these texts, which we are currently changing. Such a follow-up assessment, unfortunately, is missing. I believe that the importers should do so and introduce the MPs, the Bulgarian citizens, what this cost the Bulgarian business and the Bulgarian citizens. With regard to other bills tabled quickly, true, there are no major changes. But I am surprised by the change in the deadline for the submission of annual tax returns and the accounts of companies and sole traders. I can't understand and I don't accept the motive the business wanted. Thirty years in this country in this way these were the deadlines for declaring the annual taxes and submitting the annual accounts with a single motive to ask for the business. He wanted a lot of things, including not wanting the revenue management systems, but you imposed them. It's incomprehensible to me. This change also lacks the required impact assessment. It's gone. The process of budgetary procedure has been vitiated because the Law was introduced in a hurry, without opportunities for introduction and discussion. We said that in the Commission. Personally, I'm not going to support him, and I guess I'm not going to support my colleagues. It does nothing to assist the process and does not illuminate the work of the Bulgarian business. It does not provide the necessary revenue to be included in the budget because the changes that have been made and which you are canceling in art. 118, were with the reasons that this would bring more revenue into the budget and reduce unaccounted for revenue. What do you mean, two years? What happened to these revenues when the revenue management system was not in place? What do we do with the people who gave hundreds of levs and, on a national scale, probably millions to bring these systems in? We're throwing them, you see, two reliefs. Those who break the Law will not be sealed. I think that's funny. This is not serious as a proposal and we as MPs to vote on it. What we say here today: he who violates the Law will not be sanctioned because we apologize to him for introducing a revenue management system. The other which is provided for as a reference a speedy refund of value added tax. Sorry, guys, it's funny. These are traders who do not in any case reach a refund of value added tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u189	Thank you, dear Mr. Turnovallisky. - What's the line? I can't see. Mrs. Naydenova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u190	I am surprised, Mr. President, why there are no speeches on my right hand, provided that at the previous point, some of my colleagues have been praised by me, but I hope that there will be time for a non-specialist, but a Member of the National Assembly to express their attitude on this point. I would like to draw your attention, honourable Members, to something a little further away, but which has a direct bearing on the topic under consideration, the gross domestic product. We know that all revenue and expenditure in the country is being developed in the budgets, stepping on precisely the gross domestic product. For next year it is just over 124 billion. I have two questions. The first: if the gross domestic product really turns out to be lower, for example 100 billion, something that is expected in today's pandemic, what are we doing? The second: do we have any mechanisms to compensate for losses in the event of any failure to comply with the estimated gross domestic product? I don't expect the answers now and immediately. What can we conclude? The implementation of gross domestic product cannot be guaranteed without changes in tax legislation, which we, as MPs, must foresee between first and second votes, including in the Value Added Tax Act. Something that we should very seriously consider and possibly propose between the first and second votes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u191	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? I can't see. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I will put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, No 002-01-57, submitted by the Council of Ministers. They voted 111 MPs: 89, against 10, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. We continue with the next item of our work programme: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CIVIL CODEX. This is a joint project drawn up by the Committee on Legal Affairs on the basis of the laws adopted at the first vote with the importers of the Council of Ministers and the People's Representative Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. Dear Mrs. Alexandrova, you have the floor to present the Report to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! "Report on General Law No 053-03-43, submitted on 1 September 2020 at the first vote adopted on 22 July 2020 Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 002-01-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 July 2020, and Draft Law supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 054-01-67, submitted by Valeri Simeonov Simeonov and a group of MPs on 10 July 2020, drawn up on the basis of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In . (4) The oral translation and interpretation may also be carried out through a video conference, with the translator or translator present in the courtroom of the court in which the hearing is held, unless the specific circumstances require their presence in the hearing person. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... Article 3 is replaced "Participation of the parties through a video conference. Art. 135a. (1) Any party may request to participate in a hearing by means of a video conference where it is unable to appear directly before the court. (2) At the video conference the country is present in a specially equipped room for video conferences in a district court designated by the order of art. 156a, para. 2 "4" Place of imprisonment or arrest. (3) The Court shall inform the parties of the conditions for holding a video conference. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the . (4) When holding a meeting through a video conference, the court shall monitor: 1. to comply with the technical requirements for carrying out procedural actions in electronic form and how they are carried out as provided for in Chapter 18 of the Law on the Judiciary; 2. the communication link used to allow simultaneous transmission and reception of image and sound; 3. procedural actions to be adopted by all participants in the meeting located in different places; 4. for the recording of the video conference. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, i.e. 1 the words "their representative" shall be replaced by a staff member appointed by them. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 151 the 1. In para. A sentence 2 is created: "When a video conference is also used in the sitting, the court shall rule on the request to supplement or correct and after reproduction of the recording by it. 2. The creation of para. 6: The recording of the video conference shall be kept until the period of storage of the case has expired. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u193	You have the floor for speeches on the title of the Bill, as well as paragraphs 1 to 7. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the title of the Bill, § 1 and 2 by the version of the Commission, § 3 by importer, § 4 by the version of the Commission, § 5 with a small adjustment to the text of the importer, § 6 by the version of the Commission and § 7 by importer. Vote 95 MPs: 81 against 3, abstention 11. The title of the Bill, as well as paragraphs 1 to 7, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u194	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 156a: "Culture of evidence through a video conference" Art. 156a. (1) Collection of evidence through a video conference may take place at the request of a party and upon hearing of an expert and by the court. (2) Interrogation of a witness and explanations of a party through a video conference shall be admissible where they are unable to appear directly before the court in the case and are located outside the judicial area of the regional court whose seat coincides with the seat of the court in the case. (3) Hearing of an expert by means of a video conference shall be admissible where, due to professional engagement or other objective circumstances, the expert may not appear before the court in the case and is located outside the judicial area of the regional court whose seat coincides with the seat of the court in the case. (4) The court shall determine the date and time of the hearing at which a video conference will be used after verifying the possibility of holding it with the nearest regional court at the place of residence of the country, witness or expert, respectively, at the place of imprisonment or arrest where the person is located. (5) Witnesses, parties and persons whose statements will be heard through the video conference shall be called for the date and time of the hearing, indicating to them the court in which they are to appear, respectively, the place of imprisonment or the arrest where the video conference will be used. (6) The identity of the person participating through a video conference shall be checked by the officer under art. 150, para. 3, who attended the video conference. (7) The translator or the translator shall be present in the courtroom of the court in which the hearing is held, unless the specific circumstances require their presence in the hearing officer. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u195	Are there any statements on the new § 8 and paragraphs 9 and 10 by the text of an importer? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote paragraphs 8, 9 and 10. Voted 103 MPs: 88, against 3, abstention 12. The proposals for paragraphs 8, 9 and 10 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u196	Under paragraph 11, there is a proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev: the following point is inserted after point 11 (Commission Article 3 is replaced by the following: 428a containing the following: A voluntary implementation procedure Art. 428a. (1) For cash claims for which no executive sheet or other act to be executed has been issued, the court contractor may, at the request of a creditor, proceed to a voluntary recovery procedure. (2) The request shall be submitted to the bailiff at the permanent or present address or registered office of the debtor and shall contain: 1. the basis and amount of the claim and, in the case of periodic payments, the period to which it relates; 2. the name, permanent or present address or registered office of the debtor; 3. possibility of a deferred payment at the discretion of the creditor; 4. a copy of the document certifying the claim, if any. The request may also be submitted electronically if it is signed with a qualified electronic signature. (3) Upon receipt of the request, the court contractor shall send an invitation for voluntary execution to the debtor, which shall be of the same type, format and font size as not less than 12 and shall contain: 1. the name and current address or registered office of the creditor; 2. the basis and amount of the claim and, in the case of periodic payments, the period to which it relates; 3. the bank account to which the debtor can pay his debt; 4. notification in a clear and understandable way that the debtor is not convicted and can pay voluntarily if he recognises the obligation; 5. a warning that, in the event of failure, the creditor may exercise his or her rights under a court order which may result in the payment of costs by the debtor; 6. a copy of the document certifying the claim in cases where one is presented. (4) When in the request under para. 2 The creditor has provided for the possibility of a deferred payment, the court contractor shall propose it to the debtor. (5) Within two months of the service of the invitation under para. 3 The court contractor may hold meetings and conversations with the debtor, as well as send a letter with the content under para. 3. (6) In the exercise of the powers under para. 3, 4 and 5 the court contractor is obliged to observe the law, good manners and appropriate ethical rules. (7) All costs of the procedure shall be paid in advance by the creditor, with the exception of those under para. Eight and it's on him. Such costs may not be claimed by the creditor against the debtor if he claims his rights under judicial procedure. (8) Upon full or partial recovery of the claim, the creditor shall owe remuneration to the private judicial contractor in the amount agreed between them, but not less than one tenth of the amount collected. The creditor owes a state fee of one tenth of the amount collected for the state contractors in the recovery of the claim. (9) The procedure shall be terminated when: 1. the debtor contests the claim in writing or 2. have expired two months of service of the call for voluntary execution without payment. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u197	Statements? Mr. Mitev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will present the reasons for our proposal. The proposed changes shall specify the proposal by importer, ensure greater protection of the debtor and greater clarity on the powers of the court contractor. Critics that were made at the first reading of the Bill. It is proposed to allow the creditor to provide in the request to the court contractor the obligation to defer, in which case the court contractor undertakes to submit such a proposal to the debtor. This will therefore contribute to the extension of the possibilities for settling the relationship between the creditor and the debtor and to achieving voluntary implementation, as is the purpose of the proposed provision in the Civil Procedure Code. The call for voluntary implementation to meet certain technical requirements is proposed to be of the same format and font size as not less than 12, which will protect to a greater extent the interests of the debtor. In fact, a requirement contained in the Law on Consumer Credit and in the Law on Credits for Real Estates of Users and which is not in fact contained at the time in respect of the orders for execution, orders for immediate execution, notary invitations and any other invitations which the creditor may send to the debtor. For the same purpose, it is envisaged in the call to include a warning that, in the event of default and exercise by the creditor of his rights under judicial procedure, a payment of costs may be made by the debtor. In this way, the debtor is practically warned that, if this obligation does exist and it recognises it, it is better to comply voluntarily than to go in the direction of enforcement, respectively following a trial that a lawsuit will impose on him, respectively, with the payment of judicial fees, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, any payment of the plaintiff's legal fee. The action which the court contractor may take shall be expressly regulated, namely within two months of the service of the invitation to hold meetings and conversations with the debtor, and shall send a letter containing the content of the invitation. This is also in practice in response to the criticisms that were made between first and second readings that there is no clear regulation of what the bailiff does in this procedure, what actions he may do and what he does not do. I also make the important clarification that all costs of the procedure are paid in advance by the creditor and are at his expense except for the remuneration under para. 8 These costs cannot be claimed by the creditor against the debtor if he claims his rights under judicial procedure. This rule, in fact, to a maximum extent protects the interests of the debtor and practically whatever costs the creditor would have to pay for the recovery of his claim, they would not be able to be brought into a future lawsuit which he would have organised if the debtor did not recognise the claim by stating that he did not owe. Unfortunately, in the Legal Committee, we practically did not discuss these proposals. And these improvements in the text practically the second reading became the second first reading of the Bill and again we practically returned to the principled situations. The principles are mainly exhausted by another option, which is given for voluntary settlement of disputes to those who exist at the moment. An opportunity that exists in many European countries.. France, Belgium, Austria, the Netherlands and much closer Romania, Serbia. So I do not see any problem with this being introduced here, even more so, that I have a relevant recommendation from the Council of Europe in this direction. There is a similar... in a decision of the Council of Ministers relating to investment policy, so in this regard such a step would be in line with these decisions and with the overall policy of unloading the judiciary, unloading the courts. There are positive opinions of the Sofia District Court of the Appeals Court of Burgas of the District Court of Varna. I will not list all the courts from which there have been positive opinions that this change and this proposal will decompose the already overloaded judicial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u199	Thank you, Mr. Mitev, you nailed the exact five minutes. Are there lines? I don't see anyone wishing for a line. Any other statements under § 11? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u200	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We will vote against this proposal with several solid arguments. By the way, similar were expressed by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Supreme Council of Law. Judicial contractors, colleagues, are carriers of public-law functions. They have such a character, such is their nature. The court performers cannot and should not interfere in private-law relations. This also violates legal situations, according to us and some constitutional texts, because this is also a precedent. Imagine that tomorrow we give the same logic to prosecutors to give private counseling, then that same prosecutor pursues his client who had previously paid him. It's a conflict. It's a definite one. Now we may find ourselves in the same hypothesis. A private judicial contractor or a public judicial contractor is hired privately to collect out-of-court debts and then becomes party to the same proceedings. How will we ensure that the judicial contractor is impartial? Next, we believe that this will deinstitutionalise the figure of the private judicial contractor. According to art. Art. 56 and art. 117 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria citizens have the right to protection and the judiciary protects their legitimate interests. When we have forced execution, the path of protection of the debtor is clear. It's not clear here. It is not regulated how the debtor will defend himself in such a procedure. That is why we believe that his rights would be violated. The reference to some European practices is not correct in our view. I would like to say the out-of-court settlement of such disputes, in our opinion belongs to the lawyer, the mediation belongs to the lawyers, it does not belong to the court contractors. The debtors and citizens in general would be misled because the term used in this bill is an invitation for voluntary implementation. With the exact same call for voluntary execution begins and the forced execution between the two terms is no different. How will citizens who are not legally informed distinguish in what role does the bailiff act as a public authority, as employed in private law, when exactly does he act? And in a situation where there is a crisis, the debtors will undoubtedly become more. This will cause a lot of damage to them. And here, in the debate in the Legal Commission, the issue of collector companies has also come to light, which may be a problem in our legal space. But I would like to stress that this entity will continue to work in the same legal vacuum because this bill does not regulate its activity in any way. If we want to settle this conflict, we and BSP colleagues are willing to offer solutions in this direction, again I say, perhaps the lawyering, mediation is a solution and settlement of the activities of these collectors because several times it has been highlighted by the representatives of CSI and by the importers that it was a question of, see, multimillion-dollar business. Even if it is, it is not the National Assembly's job to take over someone's business, to give it to someone else and to become mediators in such a relationship. Therefore, our position on the current texts will be against it, but the proposals made between first and second readings do not change that with anything, absolutely nothing. They will neither change the procedure nor provide any certain protection for the interests of the debtor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u201	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Are there any lines to Mr. Bojankov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mrs. Alexandrova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u202	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm making a proposal for a technical service that has been missed in the course of the work. The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 11 and proposes to be rejected, the Commission has failed to record. And allow me, before you close the debate, to read the paragraph by importer, as it is also not supported and should be read in the Chamber, from the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u203	I don't know how much sense it makes to read it. Moreover, I do not see any sense in this, since the Commission does not support the text, to add Well, by not supporting him, what he suggests, of course, that he be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u204	It's natural, but it has to be recorded. That's right, I understand completely. ..................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 428a: A voluntary implementation procedure Art. 428a. (1) For cash claims for which no executive sheet or other act to be executed has been issued, the court contractor may, at the request of a creditor, proceed to a procedure for their voluntary recovery. (2) The request shall be submitted to the bailiff at the permanent or present address or registered office of the debtor and shall contain: 1. the basis and amount of the claim and, in the case of periodic payments, the period to which it relates; 2. the name, permanent or present address or registered office of the debtor; 3. a copy of the document certifying the claim if any. The request may also be submitted electronically if it is signed with a qualified electronic signature. (3) Upon receipt of the request, the court contractor shall be obliged to send an invitation for voluntary enforcement to the debtor, which shall contain: 1. the name and current address or registered office of the creditor; 2. the basis and amount of the claim and, in the case of periodic payments, the period to which it relates; 3. the bank account to which the debtor can pay his debt; 4. notification that the debtor is not convicted and may pay voluntarily within 14 days if he recognises the obligation; 5. a warning that, in the event of default, the creditor may exercise his or her judicial rights; 6. a copy of the document certifying the claim in cases where one is presented. (4) If the debtor has not fulfilled his obligation within the term under para. 3, the court contractor may hold meetings with him and send a new invitation for voluntary implementation with the content under para. 3. (5) In the exercise of the powers under para. 3 and 4 the court performer is obliged to observe the law, the good manners and the appropriate ethical rules. (6) The procedure shall be terminated when: 1. the debtor contests the claim in writing or 2. have expired two months after the invitation for voluntary execution without payment. (7) Upon full or partial recovery of the claim, the creditor shall owe remuneration to the private contractor in the amount agreed between them, but not less than one tenth of the amount collected. For state contractors in the recovery of the claim, the creditor owes a state fee of one tenth of the amount collected.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u205	Thank you. Are there any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. First, I will put to the vote the extremely meaningful proposal of the MP Christian Mitev. [[Noise, lines, calls.]] Order in the court, Mr. Tzipov. Don't shout, please. Order! Order! Take your seats and turn forward, please! No cynical signs, please, Mr. Ivanov! How do we interpret this thing? You're in the National Assembly, please! What are those gestures you're showing? They voted 92 MPs: 15 against 8, abstention 69. Unfortunately, the meaningful proposal of the MP Christian Mitev is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the rejection of § 11 on a proposal from the Commission. [[Noise, lines, calls.]] I'm going to take action against these calls in this room. Vote 97 MPs: 85 against 8, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Paragraph 11 is rejected. Mrs. Alexandrova, please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... After art. 639 An additional provision shall be established with a new § 1: "Additional provision' § 1. "Videoconference" within the meaning of this Code is a communication tool for simultaneous transmission and reception of image and sound between participants in the process located in different locations, allowing recording and storing of information on an electronic medium. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u207	Thank you. That's it. Do you have statements under § 12 and § 13 by importer? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm calling off the debate. I shall put to the vote the editorial text proposed by the Commission for § 12, which shall become § 11, and the importing text of § 13, which shall become § 12. Vote 96 MPs: 88 against 1, abstention 7. Paragraphs 12 and 13 by importer which become paragraphs 11 and 12 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u208	'Concluding provisions'. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 13, i.e. 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. In § 1 of the Additional provision, paragraph 3 is inserted. 8. It's 8 o'clock. "Videoconference" is a communication tool for simultaneous transmission and reception of image and sound between participants in the process located in different locations, allowing recording and storing of information on an electronic medium. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15, which shall become § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In the Code of Criminal Procedure (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 65, para. 3 The third sentence is created: "When this will not prevent the exercise of the right of defence, with his consent, the accused may participate in the case and through a video conference, in which case his identity shall be certified by the warden, the head of custody or an employee appointed by them. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 139 is created. 11: A protected witness may also be interviewed by a video conference. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 142 is created. 4. s (4) The interview may also be carried out through a video conference. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) A new para shall be created. 4. . (4) An eye rate may also be made through a video conference when the defendant is located outside the country and this will not prevent the disclosure of objective truth. (b) the current para. 4 becomes para. 5 and in it the words "Alinei 1 - 3" are replaced by "Alinei 1 - 4." 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 171 is . (8) In the cases referred to in para. 4 and 5 identification can also be performed through a video conference. 6. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 236a: "Inquiry actions carried out through a video conference" Art. 236a. (1) A protocol shall be drawn up for the conduct of the investigation by means of a video conference indicating the data under art. 129, para. 1 and enter the data of all participants in the action and of the person who identified them. The minutes shall be signed by the investigating authority and by the participants present therein. (2) A video recording shall be drawn up for the conduct of the investigation by means of a video conference in accordance with art. 239 and 240, of which all participants are explicitly notified. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) A new para shall be created. 2: . (2) The record shall be written on an electronic one-time record medium on which the signatures of the pre-trial body and the participants present in the pre-trial proceedings are given and the date of the investigation action. (b) The current para. 2 " 5" becomes respectively. 3. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) A new para shall be created. 4. . (4) Where this will not prevent the exercise of the right of defence, the convicted person may, with his consent, participate in the case by means of a video conference, in which case his identity shall be verified by the head of the prison or an employee appointed by him. (b) the current para. 4 becomes para. 5. 9. Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions establishes para. 5. This code shall be used to record and store information on electronic media.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-05.u209	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. I shall open discussions on the title of the section as well as paragraphs 14 and 15 by importer. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall close the deliberations and put to the vote the title of the section as well as § 14, which shall become § 13, and § 15, which shall become § 14. Vote 92 MPs: 85 against 1, abstention 6. The proposals have been adopted, with which we have concluded the Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code. Communications of parliamentary control on 6 November 2020, Friday after the legislative part of the meeting was concluded. 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy and Tourism Minister Mariana Nikolova will answer three questions from the MPs Dzhevdet Chakarov and Hristo Prodanov, who has two questions. 2. Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva will answer two questions from the MP Valeri Zablyanov, Krasimir Yankov, Nikolay Ivanov, Dimitar Stoyanov, Georgi Andreyev, Lalo Kirilov and Chavdar Velinov; the second question is asked by the MPs Anton Kutev and Zhelyo Boychev. 3. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer two questions from the MPs Dora Yankova, Lyubomir Bonev and Teodora Halacheva, and Kolyo Milev, and two questions from the MPs Georgi Svilenski, Manol Genov and Dimitar Danchev, as well as the MP Pavel Shopov. 4. The Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov will answer two questions from the MPs Kolyo Milev, and Evgeni Budinov. 5. The Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov will answer two questions from the MPs Manoil Manev and Radostin Tanev, the second question is from Georgi Gokov. 6. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer a question from the MPs Nikolai Ivanov and Vasil Antonov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Minister of Finance Kiril Ananiev to a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tishev and to a question written by the National Representative Lalo Kirilov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on a question by the MPs Veska Nencheva and Violeta Jeleva; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova, one question from the National Representative Nikolai Ivanov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Desislava Taneva to two questions with written answer from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Nikolay Penev; the second question is from the MP Rumen Georgiev; - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov to a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva; - the Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev to a question from the National Representative Nikola Dinkov; - Minister of the Interior Hristo Terziyski, to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Yavor Bojankov; - Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov and to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question written by the MPs Stefan Burgev and Georgi Stoilov. For lack of respectable reasons, Members of the National Assembly shall postpone the responses to: - a question from the National Representative Dean Stanchev to the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov; - a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva to the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy and Minister of Tourism Mariana Nikolova; - a question from the National Representative Georgi Mihailov to the Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov. In the parliamentary control meeting will not take part the Minister of Economy Lachezar Borisov, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Desislava Taneva and the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev, who in connection with the outbreak of COVID-19 are quarantined. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda, I am adjourned. The next meeting is tomorrow, 6 November 2020, at 9:00 in the same room. [[PHONE RINGING]]
