ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, I'm going to read you a message and move on to point one. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and stay on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of the Allied and Foreign Armed Forces by its order has authorised the passage through the airspace and the residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of an Il-76 plane with its crew from the Air Force of Ukraine on the route Ukraine.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The authorisation shall be valid for the period from 11 to 17 February 2020. The notification was received on 12 February 2020 with entry No 003-09-16 and was made available to the Defence Committee. Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR HIGH MOVEMENT. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 12 August 2019. The first vote was adopted on 27 November 2019. Mrs. Damyanova, would you like to introduce us to the Second Reading Report?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! Please, before we move on to the Report, let's vote for admission in Mr. Petar Nikolov's room "Deputy Minister of Education and Science."
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u3	Please vote on the proposal for admission in this House. They voted 170 MPs: 165, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guest to the hall. Here you go, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u4	"Report on the second vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, No 902-01-42, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 August 2019 and adopted on the first vote on 27 November 2019.' The Act for Amendment and Supplement to the Higher Education Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u5	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law supported by the Commission. They voted 165 MPs: 162, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u6	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u7	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 1 and § 2 supported by the Commission. They voted 164 MPs: 153, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u8	According to § 3 there is a proposal from the MPs Nikolay Tsonkov and Valeri Jablyanov: In § 3, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: 1 in the created t. 4 words........................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MPs Radostin Tanev and Boris Kirchev. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic position in § 4. Proposal by the National Representative Galya Zaharieva, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Stanislava Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 3: (a) To be created t. 1a: 1a. on a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science adopted the National Map of Higher Education in the Republic of Bulgaria, which defines the profile and territorial structure of higher education in the country in professional fields and specialties of regulated professions in accordance with socio-economic development and labour market needs. (b) c. 2 after the word "schools" shall be added in accordance with the National map of higher education in the Republic of Bulgaria. c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) "3." find, transform and close off cases under para. 2, p. 1: (a) faculties, institutes, affiliates and colleges, as well as territorial export units and divisions abroad under § 4, para. 3 of the additional provisions in state universities, on the basis of a request from the relevant university and/or on a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science, indicating for subsidiaries and colleges the professional directions in which the training will be carried out; (b) territorially exported units in the country, as well as territorially exported units and divisions abroad under § 4, para. 3 of the additional provisions of the private higher education schools in which students are trained on the basis of a request from the relevant university on a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science, specifying the professional directions in which the training is to be carried out; (d) c. 6: (aa) the point (s) is amended as follows: On a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science, the total number of students and PhD students accepted for training for whom the State provides funds for the maintenance of their education, in professional fields and in specialties of regulated professions, as well as its distribution in state universities in accordance with para. 4; (d) (bb) point (c) is repealed; (e) c. 7 after the word "schools" the scientific organizations under Art. 7 shall be added. 47, para. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (i) (ii) (i) 3. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The total number of students and PhD students accepted for training under para. 3, p. 6 point (a) is allocated to state universities, in professional fields and in specialties of regulated professions and in forms of training, depending on: 1. the assessment of the academic and scientific activities; 2. the data on the realization of graduates and PhD students; 3. priorities for the socio-economic development of the country; 4. The stated readiness of the state universities for the training of a certain number of students and PhD students in accordance with the capacity of the university, the professional directions and the specialties of regulated professions in it. 4. In para. 5 the words "confirmation number' are replaced by "distribution total'.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u9	Statements, coworkers? Mr. Zablyanov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u10	Dear Madam President, dear colleagues, Mr Minister! I would like to take account of the proposed in § 3 and thus described the National Map of Higher Education in the Republic of Bulgaria. What is the status of the National Card in this law? This is not the first National Card that we propose to accept in various areas that affect broad social activities, social services, in general the social sphere. I don't know if any of you remember how long it's been accepted.! I don't know if there's an accepted card? I think every time the minister comes to us, he promises us that there will be one in a few months. Probably not because the executive does not want to fulfil its commitments, but because it has objective difficulties in producing such documents. What does the National Map of Higher Education in the Republic of Bulgaria mean? This means planning the specialties and needs over a period of 10 years. That means National Card, I think. Taking into account a cycle of completion of a class, given the current stage of the organization of higher schools, adding to all this the extremely dynamic characteristic of demographic indicators, adding to this the dynamics of economic development or so-called businesses and the needs of business, how will the National map in higher education be made on top of all of this and territorial? That someone wants to put in the boxes the higher schools in the country, to say that in Ruse engineers will be produced, in Gabrovo thermal technicians and atomic specialists in Sofia, and agricultural specialists in Stara Zagora, what type of planning is this with this national map? How is the state policy implemented through it? I am stopping here with my statement on the National Card, and I would like to express my opinion on this in the following way. Mr. Minister, you will not make this card in your term of office, not because there is a year left and not because you do not want to, but because there is no way, because the purpose of the National Card, as proposed, has no objective prerequisites for it to happen. This type of regulation, if we have before us the progressive experience of the Ministry of Health, ironically speaking, I do not see why you believe that this map can be realized in the Ministry of Education. We may have some framework, but what will be its status within this law? Who's gonna impose it? How are we going to meet the needs of business by signing one National card for the next 10 years? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In a nutshell. In the last three decades the Bulgarian system of higher education has been characterized by a final model of academic self-government, which has led to independent strategies, including profile development of higher schools. 14 new higher schools have been opened. This model was not included in the common framework, led to the growth of higher education supply, above all, of social, business and legal sciences, where it erupted and irrational demand for higher education, led to four centers of economic science in the North Central Region, in Plovdiv, five. Many other examples I can give. Unfortunately, although the system has faced the negative demographic trend in recent years, it continues to push for extensive and profile development. This map will not return the profile structure entirely to state planning. It will rather be a framework, as you said, for no more higher education centres to be opened, not to make unnecessary efforts for higher schools to discover new exported structures, for new specialties, for new professional directions. This map will give them a signal not to. It will also be a basis for the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency not to consider projects at all. Our opinion is: 90% of the professional directions the system has reached its limit of expansion and fragmentation, but we have 10% of the professional directions such as IT, IT, computer systems, several other engineering and health care, perhaps where the opening of additional higher education centres is not undesirable, but depends on a certain number of circumstances. The map must define all these balances, all these boundaries, all those conditions under which a new higher education centre can eventually be opened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u13	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Damyanova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u14	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! In fact, the proposed text for the National Card has one single purpose. This goal is to set priorities in higher education, tailored to academic and scientific development, in line with the economic perspective and last but not least, in line with the necessity and development of the staff in Bulgaria. Yes, within a year, i.e. within a year, the Ministry of Education and Science together with all stakeholders will have to analyse and present an objective picture of the higher schools in the country in line with national and regional objectives. You'll say, "Who needs this?" Either way, now we all know how many higher schools are in the country, and now we know where, in what professional directions and specialties the training takes place. We know what and how lecturers teach, we know what and where students are looking for, we also know that we have staff, we have specialists who are not needed in the labour market, but we also know that the labour market has a strong need for highly educated and highly qualified personnel. The map will actually be part of the common process of guaranteeing and ensuring quality in higher education and what we all want, including the stability of the academic community. I will just say that between first and second readings, this text has been unanimously voted in the Commission with 16 votes in favour, and we have made several proposals. One of the proposals we recognize is a proposal of employers and trade unions expressed in their common opinion, namely this card to be agreed with them and that is correct. The text on the Map is also supported by absolutely all of them, both by the academic community through the Rectors Council and by all employers' organizations, trade unions. To tell you the truth, for the first time, I see a united opinion of employers and trade unions on a bill. On the balcony is associate professor Lilyana Valcheva and I can really say that it is a success for employers and trade unions to have the same opinion, to support the same things. With colleagues from GERB, we made a proposal between first and second readings, also on a proposal from the academic community and the trade unions, to accept this card by the Council of Ministers. Because, first of all, this will guarantee flexibility, will guarantee efficiency and, last but not least, will guarantee possible protection from lobbying interests that are related to academic development or academic appearance in certain settlements. Furthermore, I firmly believe that the adoption of the Map is not the work of the National Assembly, because, first of all, there is a risk that the process of adoption will become an absolute formal solution from which no one wins. Secondly, I would say that this would make the process difficult because we all know how a document from the National Assembly is adopted. In addition, I am afraid that the Map would come out of the National Assembly in a very different and bulky form of analysis that has been done in advance. Once again, not least, this adoption could become a continual attempt to create and give academic development to a region, which we have examples of from the recent past. And, yes, we all agree. You know that when a project for the opening of a university, for the opening of a faculty, for the conversion of a college into a university is introduced to the National Assembly, we all vote unanimously. True, we protect regional interests, voters in them, but at the same time we all keep asking ourselves the question: is it necessary for such higher schools in the country, is it necessary for all higher schools to reveal all majors, respectively to conduct training in different professional directions, or should they be specialized? To finish, I will remind you that swarming of higher schools through this map will not be possible, because the process and procedure for revealing higher schools remains unchanged, that is, this will only happen with a decision of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u15	Thank you, dear Mrs. Damyanova. - What's the line? Mr. Zablyanov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u16	Madam President, Members of Parliament, Dear Minister! I have heard with attention the arguments of the Minister, Mrs. Damyanova in her speech, regarding the National Card, but what I cannot be convinced of. There must be a lot of support in the creation of this national map in different communities. It's hardly a hundred percent, but I suppose there is, and it is, as Mrs. Damyanova says. But what do I think is causing concern? Not only the opportunity to make such a map, to predict the needs of education, but also the stagnation of such a map. In this procedure, as foreseen, or rather in the absence of a procedure, how is this map amended? Is this card being changed as a document? Or tomorrow, if there is a proposal in the Council of Ministers for a change in this map, how long will it have the type for which it is adopted, how many years is it accepted, can it be amended twice a year, three times a year? Can the Council of Ministers do this thing? Yes, of course. I did not understand why in the National Assembly it could be easier or somehow, let us call it that, the National Assembly to be the more liberal body in terms of the expansion of the network of higher schools and the Council of Ministers to be the more conservative. If it is contained that the National Assembly because of the regional representation of the MPs is closer to the needs, it is more influenced by populists, to call them moods and here we promote the interests of the regions of Bulgaria, I see nothing bad in this work when the criteria are met. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I can't see anything wrong!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u17	The weather, Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u18	Because we are going to another supercentralization in Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u19	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u20	Mr. Zablyanov, I have no way of commenting on your prophecies and I do not know to what extent they will happen and realize in the future. You contradict each other in the line you made. On the one hand, you ask the question: is there a possibility for flexible solutions, can the Council of Ministers change the map? Yes, if the necessity and objective reality require it, why not? On the other hand, you say: yes, but the National Assembly will, yes, it will participate and do not doubt the objectivity of this map, because if you have listened carefully, I said the following that within this year, the Ministry together with all stakeholders, in coordination with employers and trade unions, something that we adopted between first and second reading, will do an analysis and will present this objective picture. And yes, if change is needed, this change will happen, and that is why we made an adjustment to the map to be adopted by the Council of Ministers. Why? I'm setting a specific example. Imagine that tomorrow we have an interest in a large investor in Bulgaria, but this interest of the investor is related to a change of Map in a particular area, in a particular region. What are we gonna tell him? We must wait about three months because this is the procedure in the National Assembly and I assure you that the investor will choose another country, not Bulgaria. Yes, we have the possibility of flexibility, we have the opportunity to control, to analyse and to monitor by stakeholders. Let us have more confidence in the academic community, let us have more confidence in employers and trade unions. They guarantee that this map will be objective and will be changed according to needs.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u21	Thank you, dear Mrs. Damyanova. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. First, I will put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MPs Nikolay Tsonkov and Valeri Zablyanov. They voted 133 MPs: 36, against 45, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the version of Paragraph 3 of the Commission Report. They voted 125 MPs: 97 against 1, abstention 27. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u22	According to § 4 there is a proposal from the MPs Nikolay Tsonkov and Valeri Zablyanov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the MPs Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MPs Polina Shishkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Milena Damyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2: (a) To be created t. 1a: 1a. develop and submit to the Council of Ministers for adoption National Map of Higher Education in the Republic of Bulgaria, in coordination with the national representative trade union and employers' organizations. (b) c. 4 the words "and legalization" shall be deleted and the sum shall be added and shall be added within two months of the date of submission of all the necessary documents. (c) c. 6: (aa) in the letter (b) the words (c) 31, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 31, para. the following points are inserted after (bb) in the letter "in" the words "in" under art. 31, para. the following points are inserted after point (a) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (i) (d) shall be established. 9.. 11: Nine. establish a policy for the development of each state university with strategic objectives, tasks, targets and performance indicators; 10. conclude a management contract with the Rector of the State Higher School under the terms and conditions of this Law for the term of his term of office, supervises the contract and adopts an annual report on its implementation; 11. exercise control over compliance with the capacity of the higher school, the capacity of the professional directions and the specialties of the regulated professions; 2. They're creating an al. 3 and 4: The development policy under para. 2, p. 9 shall be drawn up after consultation with interested parties and validated no later than three months before the election of a new Rector. Upon early termination of the Rector's term of office, the next Rector shall implement the established policy for the development of the university until the end of the term of office. (4) At the initiative of the higher school management bodies and of the Minister of Education and Science in the development policy under para. 2, p. 9 may be added to the list of strategic objectives and tasks without the policy changing substantially conceptually.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u23	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 4 of the Commission Report. They voted 123 MPs: for 123, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u24	Under § 5, there is a proposal from the National Representative Venka Stoyanova, made in accordance with Article 5. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by 1. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency shall carry out an evaluation of projects for the detection and transformation of universities, major units, subsidiaries, territorially exported units of higher schools, professional fields and specialties of regulated professions and carry out institutional and programme accreditation, as well as post-creditation monitoring and control. 2. Allinei 5 and 6 are canceled.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u25	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 5 of the Commission Report. They voted 124 MPs: 124, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u26	According to § 6 there is a proposal from the MPs Nikolay Tsonkov and Valeri Jablyanov: In § 6 of the created para. 5 words or with an established right of use shall be dropped. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Polina Shishkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by For the duration of their existence, private higher education institutions must have a right of ownership or an established right of use on real estate used for the conduct of the training. (6) In the event of a change of circumstances under para. 5 The higher school shall inform the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency in writing within two months of the change.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u27	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MPs Nikolay Tsonkov and Valeri Zablyanov. They voted 115 MPs: 30, against 44, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version of Paragraph 6 of the Commission Report. Vote 110 MPs: for 107, against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u28	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17 the 1. In para. 1 the words "Study universities" and the comma in front of them are deleted. 2. In para. 2, p. 2 the word "read" is replaced by "produce." 3. Alinea 4 is canceled. 4. In para. 7 sentence 3 the word "the read' is replaced by the word "produce'.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u29	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of Paragraph 7 of the Commission Report. They voted 114 MPs: for 114, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u30	Under § 8 there is a proposal from the MP Polina Shishkova and a group of MPs: The following change shall be made in § 8: in art. 17a, para. 3 the figure The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Milena Damyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 17a: Art. 17a. (1) Higher School, which makes a significant contribution to the development of important public domains through top research and has high research results, assessed according to objective indicators, including a number of published and refereeed scientific articles in international databases, a number of applications for international patents, a number of quotations in reference and indexed journals by other authors in the international databases defined in an act of the Council of Ministers, can be defined as higher education. (2) The research universities shall be defined on a list adopted by the Council of Ministers and promulgated in the Official Journal. The list shall be updated annually until 1 November under conditions and in order laid down in the Act under para. 1. (3) Higher School, which meets the criteria under para. 1 shall be included in the list under para. 2 for a period of 4 years. (4) The proposals for inclusion in the list under para. 2 are made by the Minister of Education and Science at the request of the higher school.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u31	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Shishkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! The proposal for a two-year extension has two main arguments. First of all, the duration of projects often exceeds four years, especially when there is international participation. We must also bear in mind the fact that specialties, such as the Medical School, are of greater duration. Secondly, I believe that this extension benefits both scientists and teachers. It will ensure the smooth completion of the Bachelor's and Master's degrees and will give students the necessary time for their research activities. A little statistic. In terms of innovative enterprises, our country is in the last three of the European Union, together with Poland and Romania. In terms of investment in innovation, as a share of gross domestic product, there are only four countries behind Bulgaria in the European Union - Malta, Romania, Latvia and Cyprus. What's the main thing? Investments in research and innovation are practically an investment in the future. They are equally useful for both the footage and the Bulgarian economy. Outside of these arguments, let us also approach pragmatically. The fact is that there are not enough Bulgarian scientists. And it's not about lack of desire or capacity, it's about choice. Unfortunately, this choice is very often abroad. We all know that a young man who goes abroad rarely returns to the country. What are we really going to do with this two-year extension? We aim to encourage and provide good working conditions for students who want to do research, and ultimately we aim to stop the brain drain from the state. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u33	Thank you, dear Mrs. Shishkova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u34	Madam President, honourable Members! I'd like to present you with another motive for six years. One of the main elements in research are PhD students. In order to participate, however, in order to have time to charge a PhD student, to develop his research, to consider it, very often exceeds the three-year period that has been set and with the procedure goes about six years. Therefore, if we want to effectively have PhD students to develop research work, we need to adopt a larger deadline of six years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u35	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote first the unsupported proposal of the MP Polina Shishkova and a group of MPs. They voted 108 MPs: 37 against 27, abstention 44. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the version of Paragraph 8 of the Commission Report. They voted 113 MPs: 87, against 2, abstention 24. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u36	According to § 9 there is a proposal from the MP Stanislav Stanilov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Milena Damyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 is created t. 16: ..16. the right to conclude by the state universities in the number of students trained up to 5000 at the time of the conclusion of the agreement, in the case of the number of students trained over 5000 up to two agreements, and in the case of research universities up to 4 agreements with state and municipal schools in the pre-school and school education system for carrying out a joint study activity in the educational subjects and/or modules for the acquisition of the profiled and vocational training in the second secondary secondary stage of education, as well as in the educational subjects for the acquisition of the specialized training in the middle degree of education in compliance with the requirements of this law and the Law on pre-school and school education. The Agreement, as well as its amendments, shall enter into force after approval by the Minister of Education and Science. 2. In para. 5 the word "institutional" is replaced by "programming."
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u37	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of Paragraph 9 of the Commission Report. They voted 114 MPs: 111, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u38	Under § 10, there is a proposal from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova: In § 10, paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: 3 is amended as follows: "3." In para. 7 the number "seven" is replaced by "seven" and then a comma is added and a college "six" is added. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Venka Stoyanova and Borislav Borisov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Nikolay Tsonkov and Valeri Jablyanov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal from the MPs Polina Shishkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MPs Venka Stoyanova and Borislav Borisov, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The Faculty is a primary unit of the higher school, which brings together not less than three departments to ensure the training of students, PhD students and students in one or more professional directions from the higher education areas to which the university is accredited to conduct training. The habilitated persons from the academic staff of the Faculty of Main Labour Contract shall hold for each specialty not less than 70 percent of the lecture hours. If necessary, and after a decision of the academic board on individual specialties, the habilitated persons may hold no less than 50 percent of the lecture hours. After a decision of the relevant faculty council up to 10 per cent of the total choir of the school hours of the study plan in the course of education, the Bachelor's degree and up to 20 per cent of the general choir of the school hours in the course of education in the Master's degree can be conducted by distinguished specialists from the practice. 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The General Assembly of the Faculty consists of members of the academic staff of a basic contract of employment, representatives of administrative staff, students and PhD students in the faculty. The members representing the academic staff shall be not less than 75 per cent and not more than 84 per cent of the members of the general assembly and not less than one quarter of them shall be unhabilitated professors; the members representing the students and PhD students shall be not less than 15 per cent of the members of the general assembly; the members representing the administrative staff shall be no more than 5 per cent of the members of the general assembly, having at least one representative. 3. In para. The first sentence of the first sentence is replaced by the first sentence of the second sentence of the second sentence of the first sentence of the second 4. In para. 8 t. Four is canceled. 5. Alinea 10 is canceled. 6. Paragraph 11 is amended as follows: In the medical faculties and faculties of dental medicine of higher schools, except for the activities under para. 1, medical and diagnostic activities may be carried out in carrying out practical training of students and PhD students in medicine, dentistry and pharmacy, postgraduate training of dentists and dentists, as well as in carrying out scientific activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u39	Statements? I can't see. First, I will put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Kristina Sidorova. They voted 110 MPs: 38, against 32, abstention 40. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version of Paragraph 10 of the Commission Report. Vote 96 MPs: 95, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u40	The Commission proposes to set up new paragraphs 11 and 12: ........................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26c, para. 2 the word "read" is replaced by "produce." §12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26d, para. 1 sentence, second word, second word, read and read is replaced by the following: Under § 11, there is a proposal from the MPs Polina Shishkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Evdokiya Asenova, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The members representing the academic staff shall be not less than 75 per cent and not more than 84 per cent of the members of the general assembly and not less than one quarter of them shall be unhabilitated professors; the members representing the students and PhD students shall be not less than 15 per cent of the members of the general assembly; the members representing the administrative staff shall be not more than 5 per cent of the members of the general assembly, having at least one representative. 2. In para. 3 Finally, a comma is placed and the procedure for the selection of representatives of students and PhD students is added in the Rules of Organization and Activities of the Student Council.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u41	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the establishment of new paragraphs 11 and 12 on a proposal from the Commission and the version of § 11, which shall become § 13 of the Commission Report. Vote 109 MPs: for 108, no objection, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u42	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 14. Proposal by the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal as a general rule, and so on. 2 is reflected in its systematic place in § 21. Proposal by the MP Polina Shishkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 1 after the word "school" shall be added in accordance with the established policy under art. 10, para. 2, p. 9 for the State Higher Schools. (b) c. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / (c) point 8 is amended as follows: It's 8 o'clock. adopt the Rules on the attestation of the academic staff; (c) c. 10 (d) is amended as follows: (d) the conclusion of agreements under art. 21, para. 1, t. Of which: Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss, other than financial assets (d) shall be established. 18: 18. determine the order for the coordination of the projects of school curriculums and curriculas in the educational subjects and/or modules from the profiled, professional and specialized training in the cases under art. 21, para. 1, t. 16................................................ 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The members representing the academic staff shall be not less than 75 per cent and not more than 83 per cent of the members of the Academic Council under para. 2, and not less than a quarter of them are unhabilitated lecturers; the members representing the students and PhD students are not less than 15 percent of the Academic Council; the members representing the employees are not more than 5 percent of the members of the Academic Council, having at least one representative. 3. The creation of para. 5. The members of the Board of Governors shall also participate in the State Higher Schools of the Academic Council with a vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u43	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 14, supported by the Commission; and the version of § 13, which shall become § 15 of the Commission Report. Vote 110 MPs: 108, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u44	Under Paragraph 14, there is a proposal from the MP Jemma Grozdanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Ivo Hristov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 31 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: For rector, dean and director of a subsidiary, department or college, habilitated persons working on a basic contract at the university shall be selected. The elected Rector of the State Higher School shall conclude a management contract under art. 10, para. 2, p. 10 and with the elected Dean, Director of Department, Branch and College, Head of the Department and their alternates a corresponding agreement under art. 32, para. 1, t. 3. 2. A new para is being created. 2 and 3: The management contract referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article shall be signed on behalf of the European Union and shall be signed 1. the obligations of the Parties for the implementation of the development policy of the higher school; 2. specific mechanisms and indicators for the implementation of the development policy of the university; 3. the obligation of the Parties to communicate on an ongoing basis on all issues relating to the implementation of the adopted Rector's mandate programme, in full and separately for each year, and on its compliance with the higher school development policy; 4. the obligation of the Rector to report to the Minister of Education and Science the results of the implementation of the policy for the development of the higher school, the financial situation of the university and the existing problems and the measures for their resolution. (3) The management contract with the Rector shall be terminated upon termination of his term of office under art. 35 and aged 65. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 4 and in it after the word: 4. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 5 and in it, in a sentence first, the words "al." The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 October 2011 laying down detailed rules for implementing Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the list of approved active substances (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). The words "in the cases referred to in Art. 4" shall be a comma after the word "preliminary" and the words "in the cases referred to in art. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 to amend this Regulation by means of implementing acts in accordance with the 5. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 6. 6. The creation of para. 7. The term of office may not be elected to persons whose age at the date of selection does not allow them to fulfil at least half of the term of office until the age of 65.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u45	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u46	Madam President, honourable Members! Here we need to clarify the approach of the concept of a management position. In the Law the management position is Rector, Dean, Head of College or affiliate. They make an agreement. Now there is a proposal to add to them a head of the department. The question is: is the head of the department in charge? I would like to say in advance that I will not vote because I am in conflict of interest. I am the head of the department. The head of the department is not a legal person, he has no budget, he has no attributes at all, which should have a leader in a leadership position. So I think we should keep the situation where the head of the department is not in the leadership position, but the heads with the leadership position, I repeat, are the Rector and Dean. I think this is the situation that will ensure the normal functioning of the departments, especially in smaller VUMs, where there are usually departments with one or two lecturers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u47	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u48	Mr. Yordanov, I will remind you that you must see in the Report that this is your proposal, it is Professor Ivo Hristov's, first. Secondly, just a moment ago, my colleague Shishkova made a statement explaining how we should encourage young people, give them a way forward. Yes, we all agree, although the text, specifically for research universities, is quite different and it does not concern young people. But yes, this is a text that concerns young people. Do we want to give way to developing young people to take such leadership positions? Do we? Or do we want to have heads of departments who perform their entire professional careers, taking up this position? Let us create footage in the department and let us really give way to the young people to stay in Bulgaria! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u49	Thank you, dear Mrs. Damyanova. Second line? A statement? A hole, Mr. Yordanov? There won't be. Come in for a statement, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u50	Dear Madam President, Members of Parliament, Dear Minister! I do not know to what extent, with administrative measures such as a continuous decrease in the retirement age of the academic staff, will increase the incentive of students and young researchers to grow? I don't get it! Just because we're going to put an age limit of 65 years on the Rectors, on the heads of faculties and on the Departments, does that mean that young researchers are preparing for rectors? I have a feeling that here in the argumentation the whole meaning of scientific and academic growth is confused at all. This is about administrative positions, not scientific positions! If we reduce the age of the Rectors for retirement and given the mandates that they are four years old in order to have one Rector two terms, which is something completely normal and natural from the point of view of the logic of managing a higher school, at what age should he be elected? I mean, how old are they gonna pick him at 55? At 56, he has to become a rector to have two mandates. Given the current state of the academic staff of higher education, statistics have been repeatedly provided here about how many students remain in scientific work or teaching at universities, and it is not because of the Rector's age, but because of poor financial, domestic conditions, lack of conditions for scientific work. These are the first criteria for assessing whether young researchers and students decide to make a career in science. However, please take into account these objective statistics and the statements of the kind of: We are giving way to the young because we are putting 65 years of age to the Rector.............................................................................. To build a bright future. Because it's about Professor Ivo Hristov's offer. Well, I don't think in this job it means yours and ours. Each MP stands on the stand with his own conscience, preparation, qualification. Yes, of course, there is a proposal made by Ivo Hristov, but that does not mean that my colleague cannot make the opposite proposal. I know that this type of parliamentary conduct is difficult to understand for some of my fellow Members in the other part of the House, but this is totally acceptable in the parliaments of the free countries. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u51	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Mr. Yordanov, come in for a line. When we finish the procedure, the Minister wants to take the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u52	Dear Mr. Zablyanov, how can we explain the fact that there is an academic member, a correspondent member for whom he has a retirement age of 70 years, seven years before the date of his retirement the right to be Head of the Department is revoked?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u53	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. A hole? There won't be. Mrs. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u54	And I want the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u55	Okay, Mr. Gechev, and you will have that opportunity.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u56	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Firstly, I would like to thank the Commission for adopting my proposal. Apparently, there's some kind of resonant in it, and I think we know what it is. I would like to emphasise that in the Transitional and Final Provisions it is written that the mandates that have already been started will be completed. There are higher education institutions, at which time in their regulations there is this age limit, there is a decision of the Supreme Administrative Court of the Republic of Bulgaria, which has recognised the right of the Sofia University to introduce a restriction on the electoral position of the Dean, which is related to the retirement age, and this has not been declared discrimination. For me, age is a privilege. I would like to quote another decision of the Court of Justice of the European Communities of October 2007 in Case C-417, and it raises the issue of age restrictions for appointments. The implementation of the work is also conducted as non-discriminatory and is justified with a view to achieving a reasonable policy for balance between generations in labour. We don't say, "We're going to give young people a firm opportunity.".... but let's find some balance between generations, which will actually guarantee the more effective labour market as well. Thank you for your attention and I hope that this House will support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u57	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. Come in, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u58	Dear Mrs. Grozdanova, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! There are such arguments, there are such solutions, and the University of Sofia has also adopted its internal regulations, with which it acts one way or another. The point is, in the Law, we're already recording this age and it means something completely different. This means for all higher schools, for all rectors. At the same time, if we come back here to another discussion about retirement age and pension reform, if you remember, you don't want to hear all the arguments why retirement age is increasing? Well, you can't do two different things with the same arguments. What is the age for men's retirement in Bulgaria at the moment, given that we adopted by law. I can't think right now what was the step, for a gradual increase to 67, was it? [[(Reply from DPS: up to 65.]] Up to 65. Well?! The tendency is to grow that age. At the same time, I cannot understand, we do so in higher schools, where the possibility of creative work is quite different from the ordinary administrative activity that is being carried out is given the opportunity to work for people to a higher age. I say that for me there is no connection between the growth of young people and the retirement age of the Rectors. Let's not make such a connection, it doesn't exist. So there are really such practices in higher schools now, to what extent they are productive, the future will show.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u59	Thank you. Second line, you have the floor, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u60	Dear Mrs. Grozdanova, in your arguments you actually missed a few things. Yes, you thanked the Commission, but you should also stress that the Commission voted unanimously on your proposal. I appreciate the democracy of colleagues in the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.But in the end I think that in our committee Mr. Zablyanov, and you were a member of this committee last term, you were convinced that decisions are taken professionally and not on a party basis. Secondly, you could have given one example, Mrs. Grozdanova, for a Rector who is currently 57 years old, was a two-term Rector, there was a pause, then is the Rector of the third term. So it's not impossible what my colleague feared. And something else you also didn't answer about academics and their right at the age of 70. That's not an option in the Labor Code, guys. This text for academics is actually in the Law on the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and this law regulates only the relations in the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. The fact that any other institution has recognised this text is its right, but in no case does it apply and is therefore not noted in the Labour Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u61	Thank you. Third line you have the floor, Mr. Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The debate around this point has become very hot. I would like to ask the colleagues who commented on Mr. Zablyanov's speech not to transfer the topic we are currently discussing, again in a party direction, and in Dr. Grozdanova's speech the topic is nationally important. That was the great thing about the discussion in our parliamentary group that different opinions were formed. I am a defender of the opinion that protects Dr. Grozdanova, and I even set him as an example in our group. "Professor Luc Montanier, who is the discoverer of the AIDS virus, was retired with the greatest honours of 65 years. He received his post from the United States, found a place for development, but this is a mechanism for growing the nation. This mechanism, unfortunately, includes the possibility for one head to be removed from the leadership position when he is over a certain age. In this there are very deep principles and they are not only administrative, they are, if you will, and biological, so regardless of the sharp discussion we must look at the practice in the European Union and comply with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u63	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. Hole, Mrs. Grozdanova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u64	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In the back of my head, all I can say is that I thank Professor Mihailov for the clear argumentation of my proposal. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u65	Thank you. Mr. Gechev, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My profession is related to over four decades of teaching mainly at the University of National and World Economy and universities of Western Europe, the United States and others. Our University of National and World Economy has introduced these restrictions a long time ago. The choice of Dean and Rector even happens if at the time of the election the Rector, Dean or Head of the Department has four years before retirement to fulfill his mandate. As far as I know from my experience, there is a age limit everywhere in the United States and Europe. It's mandatory for state universities. In some countries they are an exception, in others they are dominant, for example, in Europe. The age limitation shall be implemented 100%. To what the coworkers said. I understand that there is a discussion and this is perfectly normal in the academic sphere, and there is nothing party about it. Confirming the arguments of the colleagues who have spoken, I will strongly support the proposal for age restrictions. In my field of economics, I don't know any Nobel Prize winner to be a Rector or Dean. Nothing prevents a lecturer, if he is not the head of the department or rector, to engage in scientific activity, to develop scientific activity, to consult, to be the science head of PhD students. I would even say something else: there are no irreplaceable people. If someone is a professor at the department or faculty and says there is no one to replace him and will have to stay, he must be fired immediately. What is this professor who is ten, fifteen years of professor and after him there is no one? I will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u67	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. Are there any other speeches? Mr. Minister, you wanted the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u68	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Ministry of Education and Science supported the proposal, as has been heard, and all MPs in the Committee on Education and Science. The reason for this is not because we want to impose administrative measures, but because we need them. Any administrative measure shall be restricted. The age limit for retirement is also limited, but it has its reasons. What is specific about the system of higher education and the model of autonomy? Those who choose the leading positions must hold them accountable and, on the other hand, those who are elected to the leadership must hold those who have chosen them accountable. What does this model of mutual dependence lead to? It leads either to neutralizing the lines of responsibility, or to an opportunity to make a certain number of people dependent on you long-term and to a lack of change. This irresponsibility and non-alternativeness leads to a change in the incentives of those in a leadership position leading to an obstruction of the system leading to a lack of development, leading to the system ultimately serving the status quo rather than development. This was seen by almost everyone who was in higher schools, and this was expressed as an opinion. We need an administrative corrective measure. It's 65 years old, not 63. In the Law, the age limit for retirement is 68 years. We need such a correction mechanism, although it is an administrative measure, because this is the reality in higher schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u69	Thank you, dear Minister. I don't see anyone else who wants to make a statement. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 14, which shall become § 16. They voted 111 MPs: 94, against 7, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u70	Under § 15 there is a proposal from the MP Polina Shishkova and a group of MPs: The following changes shall be made in §15: 1. in Art. 1. 32, para. 1 cancels the proposed new item. 12; 2. the proposed new t. 13 becomes new t. 12 and out of it is the expression of the results of the implementation of the development policy of the higher school. 3. the current t. 10 becomes t. 13; 4. A new para is created. 2 with the text: The Rector of State Higher School: 1. prepare and submit an annual report to the Minister of Education and Science for the fulfilment of the obligations under the management contract; 2. in addition to the obligations under para. 1, t. 12 present to the General Assembly a report on the results of the implementation of the development policy of the State Higher School. 5. The so-called al. 2 becomes para. 3 with the amendments proposed by the MS; 6. The Previous Al. 3 becomes para. 4 without the corrections proposed by the MS; 7. a new para is created. 5 with the text: In addition to the term of office under para. 4 The Rector of the State Higher School also presents a system of measures to implement the development policy of the State Higher School. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the narrated representatives Radostin Tanev and Boris Kirchev. The motion has been withdrawn. A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for §15, which shall become §17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 32 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 3 the words "filial or college" shall be replaced by "department," subsidiary, college and head of the department and their members; (b) A new item shall be created. 10: ..10. propose to the academic board the establishment, transformation or closure of departments, departments and service units; c) create t. 11? 13: "11." decide on the recognition of higher education acquired abroad in order to continue education at the higher school on the basis of a committee report; 12. prepare and submit an annual report to the Minister of Education and Science for the fulfilment of the obligations under the management contract; 13. submit annually to the General Assembly a report on its work and on the results of the implementation of the higher school development policy, on the financial situation of the higher school, on the existing problems and measures for their resolution; (d) the so-called t. 10 becomes t. 14 and is amended as follows: It's 14 years old. perform other functions arising from the laws, from the development policy of the higher school and from the decisions of the General Assembly or the Academic Council. 2. In para. 2 words under art. 31, para. 2 and 3 and shall be replaced by. under art. 31, para. Four and five. 3. In para. 3 a comma is placed and a system of measures for the implementation of the development policy of the higher school is added after the word.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u71	Statements? Here you are, you have the floor to justify your proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u72	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister! The amendments proposed by the importer to this article, which basically defines the rights and obligations of the Rector of the Higher School, do not distinguish between the rectors of state and private universities. For example, the proposed new item. 12 to para. 1 provides for the Rector to prepare and present an annual report to the Minister of Education and Science for the performance of the obligations under the management contract. As we well know, the rectors of private schools do not conclude the management contracts and there is no way for them to report to the Ministry of Education and Science on them. The changes that I propose aim to correct these gaps in the distinction by specifying the general rights and obligations of the rectors in three... 1, 3 and 4 and in the additional 2 and 5 indicate the additional obligations which the rectors of state universities have. We do not dispute the reporting mechanism here, but we aim to avoid the introduction of non-existent obligations of a small group of rectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u73	Thank you, dear Mrs. Shishkova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposals of the Parliamentary Representative Polina Shishkova and a group of MPs. They voted 106 MPs: 41, against 10, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 15, which shall become § 17. Vote 94 MPs: 87, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u74	According to § 16 there is a proposal from the MPs Nikolay Tsonkov and Valeri Zablyanov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of §16, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: The term of office of the sole management bodies under para. 1 shall be terminated in advance when they are released from the posts under art. 48.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u75	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 16, which shall become § 18. Vote 97 MPs: 95, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u76	Under § 17 there is a proposal from the MPs Polina Shishkova and a group of MPs: The following changes shall be made in § 17: 1. in Art. 1. 35a, para. 3 the figure 2. in para. 5 the word "petima" shall be replaced by the word "six." 3. a new para is created. 5 with the text: A representative of the municipality at the headquarters of the higher school shall not take part in the board of trustees of more than two higher schools. 4. The Previous Al. 5 becomes para. 6................................................ The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for §17 which shall become § 19.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u77	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Shishkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u78	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! The change in the text of this article is related to the idea of attracting local authorities to the management of universities. The idea itself is good in the first place, but we must very carefully approach it and its realization. The first problem that arises concerns the amount of the Rector's quota in the board. Up until now, on a proposal from the Rector, the General Assembly has elected five out of seven members of the board, which provides a majority of 72%. By adding a new member of the board, the Rector's quota is reduced to 62% or five out of eight members. Let me explain why this amendment is controversial. The new representative of the local government in the Board of Directors is a political person. The representative appointed by the Ministry of Education and Science is appointed by a political person. We also assume that these representatives, together with the student representative, would support the same position that would not always be in line with the Rector's proposal. The Council of Ministers has repeatedly stated that there should be stability in the post of Rector. This stability is very fragile if the Rector's policy relies on a fragile majority. That is why I propose that the quota of the General Assembly in the Board be increased from 5 to 6 members, which will give additional stability to the Rector in the implementation of specific policies. As regards the proposed new para. 5 in art. 35a, which provides for representatives of the local authorities to be limited to participation in the boards of two higher schools. Let us bear in mind that these representatives will be in conflict of interest in so far as individual universities are competitors for programmes, projects, funding and students. For this reason, a single person should not represent the municipality in all the boards. It is discussed in the Commission that for each school a different representative of the local government in the board will be appointed, but in my opinion, as MPs, we should legislate this. In principle, local authorities protect regional development, and this may not be in line with the National Strategy. We would like to avoid situations where the university is anchored to the relevant municipality, without being necessary in a more global development plan. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u79	- What's the line? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Polina Shishkova and a group of MPs. They voted 99 MPs: 35 against 30, 34 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer supported by the Commission for § 18, which shall become § 19. Vote 85 MPs: for 84, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u80	Under § 18, there is a proposal from the National Representative Milena Damyanova, made in accordance with Article 18. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: The territorial units of private universities in the country and abroad are opened following a positive assessment of the relevant project by the National Assessment and Accreditation Agency. Proposal by the National Representative Milena Damyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 21: .................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36a, para. A sentence 2 first after the words "outside the country" is added as well as the members of the Board of trustees who are not present at the meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u81	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for § 18, which shall become § 20, as well as the Commission's proposal to create a new § 21 with a text under the Commission Report. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u82	According to § 19 there is a proposal from the People's Galya Zaharieva, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19, which shall become § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 46 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The higher school shall have the right to conduct training in the educational and scientific degree of Doctor and Doctor only in accredited professional directions and specialties of regulated professions under the conditions of art. 80, para. 2. 2. In para. 2 after the word "experiences', a comma shall be added and a scientific survey shall be added. 3. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The Faculty, respectively the Scientific Council of the Main Unit, which teaches the doctorate, selects its scientific supervisor, validates the curriculum and gives it an annual testimonial. 4. In para. 4 a sentence is created second: a PhD guide can also be a researcher who meets the requirements of art. 2b, para. 1 and para. 5 of the Law on the Development of the Academic Staff in the Republic of Bulgaria for the Accommodation of the Academic Post "Professor" or "Professor" in the respective professional field. Proposal by the National Representative Venka Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 23: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 47 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." In para. 1 after the word "Accreditation" is added with an estimate of 8,00 to 10,00. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The Scientific Council of the PhD unit shall elect its scientific supervisor, validate its curriculum and submit it annually. A proposal from MP Stanislav Stanilov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 24: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 53, para. 1 after the word "Students', "Students' shall be added.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u83	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 19, which shall become § 22; and the proposal to create two new paragraphs 23 and 24 with texts, respectively, on the Commission report. They voted 106 MPs: for 105, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u84	Proposal from the MPs Nikolay Tsonkov and Valeri Jablyanov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 54 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the word "Australia', the cases of extension under Paragraph 11 of the Transitional and Final Provisions shall be added. 2. In para. 3 the words "with a service contract for a specified time' shall be replaced by "with a fixed contract of employment for a period of not more than 5 years'. Proposal by the National Representative Milena Damyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 56, para. 1, t. 1 the words "and the established individual plan of activity" shall be deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 27. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 21 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u85	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the Commission proposal for the creation of a new § 25 with a text on the Commission Report; the proposal for the creation of a new § 26 with a text on the Commission Report; the text of the importer for § 20, which becomes § 27; and the Commission proposal for the rejection of § 21 by importer. They voted 104 MPs: for 104, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u86	Under § 22, there is a proposal from the MPs Nikolai Tsonkov and Valeri Jablyanov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22 which shall become § 28. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23, which shall become § 29: ........................ 29...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 68 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1, in the text before t. 1 words.............................................................................. 9, para. 3, p. 6 points (a), (b) and (c) are replaced by (c). 9, para. 3, p. 6 letters...................................................................................................................... 2. In para. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 3. In para. 5 words in the order of art. 9, para. 3, p. 6 points (a), (b) and (c) are replaced by the following: 9, para. 3, p. 6 letters...................................................................................................................... 4. In para. 6 words in the order of art. 9, para. 3, p. 6 points (a), (b) and (c) are replaced by the following: 9, para. 3, p. 6 letters.......................................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24, which shall become § 30. Proposal by the MPs Milena Damyanova and Milen Mihov, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 31: ........................ 31...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 72, para. A sentence 2 shall be created: The Ruler under para. 3 shall be published on the website of the Higher School.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u87	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 22, which shall become § 28; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 23, which shall become § 29; the text of the importer for § 24, which shall become § 30; and the proposal of the Commission to create a new § 31 with a text according to the Commission Report. Vote 97 MPs: for 96, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u88	According to § 25 there is a proposal from the MPs Nikolay Tsonkov and Valeri Jablyanov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Milena Damyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 25, which shall become § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 75 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The activities of the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency aim to stimulate and control higher schools, to ensure and increase the quality of their education and to conduct it in accordance with the standards and guidelines for quality assurance in the European Higher Education Area. 2. They're creating an al. 6, 7 and 8: The accreditation shall also be carried out by electronic means through an electronic platform supported by the National Assessment and Accreditation Agency. (7) The National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency at the invitation of a foreign university to conduct training in a foreign country may assess its right to provide higher education in educational and qualification degrees through institutional and/or programme accreditation in accordance with the application of standards and guidelines for quality assurance in the European Higher Education Area. (8) The procedures under para. 7 shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency, such as the assessment of the application of standards and guidelines for quality assurance in the European Higher Education Area, does not conflict with the national legislation of the relevant foreign higher education school. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 33. Under § 27, there is a proposal from the MPs Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Galya Zaharieva, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer of § 27, which shall become § 34, as in art. 77, para. 3, p. 5 the words "the higher education area' shall be replaced by "the higher education area'; in art. 77, para. 8 after the word "Medieval" is added to the number of students; in art. 77, para. The 9th number s is replaced by the 4th,00th and in para. 10 abbreviations to be replaced by the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u89	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 25, which shall become § 32; the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 33; and the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 34, with the proposals for replacement in the text made by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 92, none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u90	Under § 28, there is a proposal from the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Nikolay Tsonkov and Valeri Jablyanov. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Paragraph 28, paragraph 28 is replaced by the following: 3 in the created para. 7 the figure The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 28, which shall become § 35: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 78 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The programme accreditation shall be based on the assessment of the quality of the training offered in a particular professional direction in the three degrees of higher education in a primary unit and/or subsidiary of the higher school, on a speciality of regulated professions and on the application of standards and guidelines for quality assurance in the European higher education area. 2. In para. 3 is created t. 7. "7." other criteria relating to quality assurance standards and guidelines in the European Higher Education Area. 3. They're creating an al. 4.. 13: The evaluation of the programme accreditation shall be carried out on the basis of a methodology developed by the National Assessment and Accreditation Agency. (5) For each criterion of programme accreditation, the accreditation board of the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency shall establish weight coefficients. The criterion of scientific research and artistic activity has the greatest relative weight. The requirement under the preceding sentence shall not apply to independent colleges. (6) The evaluation of the programme accreditation shall be carried out according to the decimal system, including the assessments from 0 to 10,00. (7) The validity of the programme accreditation shall be for a period of 4 years. (8) In the case of an arithmetical assessment below 4,00 a refusal of programme accreditation shall be made. (9) The professional directions and specialties of regulated professions with an assessment of less than 4,00 by one or more of the criteria under para. 3, p. 3. (10) Within 12 months of notification of the refusal of a program accreditation by the Accreditation Board of the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency, the higher school may request a new programme accreditation procedure to be carried out. (11) The new programme accreditation procedure shall be carried out by a Standing Committee on the relevant field of higher education and shall include a check to address the weaknesses which led to the rejection under para. 8 or para. 9. (12) In the event of an arithmetical assessment of more than 4,00 in the procedure under para. 11 The higher school shall receive programme accreditation with a period of validity up to the end of the 4-year period under para. 7. (13) In carrying out the accreditation under para. 1 and assessing compliance with the requirements for the academic composition of a basic contract of employment a member of an academic staff may participate in the accreditation of not more than one university.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u91	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MPs Nikolay Tsonkov and Valeri Zablyanov. They voted 102 MPs: 25, against 8, abstention 69. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 28, which becomes § 35. Vote 98 MPs: 94, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u92	Under § 29, there is a proposal from Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29 which shall become § 36 as in art. 79, para. 1 after the word "colleges" shall be added to the territorial export units in the country and abroad and in art. 79, para. 2, p. 5 the words "the higher education area' shall be replaced by "the higher education area'. By § 30, there is a proposal from the MP Stanislav Stanilov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 30, which shall become § 37: ...... 37........................................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 79a The following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In para. 1 the number "4.99' is replaced by "5.99'. 2. In para. 2 the words..5,00 to 10,00..6.00 to 7.99................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 80, para. 2s and the comma in front of them are deleted. 3. A new para is being created. 3: In the case of an assessment of the programme accreditation from 8,00 to 10,00 higher education schools shall also be entitled to study for the acquisition of the educational and scientific degree of the Doctor under the conditions of art. 80, para. 2. 4. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4. Under § 31, there is a proposal from the MP Stanislav Stanilov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Milena Damyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 31, which shall become § 38: ....................... 38........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 80 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The programme accreditation shall include an assessment of the ability of higher schools to conduct training in professional fields/specialities of regulated professions and doctoral programmes. Higher schools can conduct training for the acquisition of educational and scientific degrees "Doctor" according to doctoral programs accredited with an assessment from 8,00 to 10,00. 2. A new para is being created. 3: The higher schools which have accredited professional directions with an assessment of not less than 8,00 may conduct training in the same accredited fields in new courses in the relevant educational and qualification degree after notification to the National Assessment and Accreditation Agency. The new specialties within the meaning of the preceding sentence are subject to evaluation in the case of subsequent programme accreditation. 3. The previous paragraphs 3 and 4 become paragraphs 4 and 5 respectively. 4. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6 and in it, the words.... 1, 3 and 5. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 7 and in it the words........................................................................................ In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u93	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 36, with the proposals for supplementing and replacing made by the Commission; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 30, which shall become § 37; and the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 31, which shall become § 38. Vote 105 MPs: for 103, there is no objection, abstention 2. The motion has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u94	Under § 32, there is a proposal from the MPs Nikolay Tsonkov and Valeri Jablyanov: In § 32, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 in the new content of para. 2 the figure The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32, which shall become § 39, in c. 5 is finally added to the words. 77, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 77, para. 3.................................................................................. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 33, which shall become § 40: ..... 40................... 40...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 82 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1 and in it the words "the Standing Committee' shall be deleted. 2. The creation of para. 2: The project evaluation procedure cannot be opened until another ongoing accreditation procedure has been completed.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u95	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I will put to the vote the unsupported proposal by the Commission of the MPs Nikolay Tsonkov and Valeri Zablyanov. Please vote. They voted 107 MPs: 34 against 24, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 32, which shall become § 39, with the proposal to supplement that made by the Commission, as well as the text of the importer for § 33, which shall become § 40. Vote 104 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u96	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34, which shall become § 41. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35, which shall become § 42. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 36, which shall become § 43: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 85, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 after the word "Accreditation" is added in accordance with the standards and guidelines for quality assurance in the European Higher Education Area. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 the word "the procedure' is replaced by "the procedure' and "the procedure'. 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 words within the meaning of art. 11, para. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 37, which shall become § 44. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 38, which shall become § 45. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 39, which shall become § 46.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u97	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for paragraphs 34 and 35, which shall become paragraphs 41 and 42 respectively; the version proposed by the Commission to § 36, which shall become § 43; the wording of the importer for paragraphs 37 and 38, which shall become paragraphs 44 and 45 respectively, and § 39, which shall become § 46. They voted 106 MPs: for 105, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u98	Under § 40, there is a proposal from the National Representative Galya Zaharieva, made in accordance with Article 40. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 40, which becomes § 47: ss ss s s s s s In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In the text before t. 1 the words.. issue a newsletter in which they are published:.. are replaced by.. publishes on its official website:............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 2. A t is created. 5. It's five o'clock. the assessments from the institutional and programme accreditation of higher schools and scientific organisations. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 41, which shall become § 48, as in art. 88c, para. 11 words................................................................................. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 5 and para. Proposal by Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 49: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 10 is inserted in Chapter 10. 88d: Art. 88. The Rules of Procedure of the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency may set up councils and committees as auxiliary and advisory departments.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u99	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 40, which shall become § 47; the text of the importer for § 41, which shall become § 48, with the proposals for replacement in the text made by the Commission, and the proposal of the Commission to create a new § 49 with a text on the Commission Report. Vote 97 MPs: 95, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u100	Under § 42, there is a proposal from the MP Emil Hristov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 42, which shall become § 50: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 90 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 3, p. 4 (d) the words "and administrative' shall be deleted. 2. In para. 4 after the word If I may, Mr President, here I must make an amendment to the Commission's text: The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 42, which shall become § 50: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 90s and the text continues.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u101	Statements? I won't. I'll put the text to the vote on § 50, okay?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u102	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u103	In fact, the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 42, which becomes § 50, and to read the technical correction, the editorial amendment proposed by the National Representative Milena Damyanova as § 50. Vote 97 MPs: 93, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u104	Under § 43, there is a proposal from the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 43, which shall become § 51: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 91 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 is created t. 4. "4." the implementation of the strategic objectives and tasks under art. 10, para. 2, p. 9 according to a methodology laid down in the act under point (c) 3. 2. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The funds referred to in para. 1, t. 1 shall also include additional funding as determined by the Council of Ministers for: 1. training in priority professional directions and protected specialties; 2. compensation of the costs of exemption from fees incurred in accordance with art. 95, para. 7, p. 8.....................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u105	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 43, which shall become § 51. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u106	Under § 44, there is a proposal from MP Polina Shishkova and a group of MPs: The following changes shall be made in § 44: 91c, para. 2, changes: The National Programs under para. 1 shall be adopted by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Council of Ministers. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 44, which shall become § 52.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u107	Thank you. Are there any speeches? Mrs. Shishkova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u108	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Our proposal for a change in the text is based on the principles of transparency, equality and accountability. With the adoption of the state budget by the National Assembly, we also accept the funds allocated to the state universities. Our concern is that if the national programs under para. 1 is adopted by the Council of Ministers, this could mean an additional and unmotivated allocation of funds to certain universities and, respectively, harming others. Our proposal aims to lighten these funds that will enter universities without creating a prerequisite for inequality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u109	Thank you. - What's the line? Are there any other statements? First, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Polina Shishkova and a group of MPs. Vote 95 MPs: 26, against 18, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. I now vote on the wording of the importers for § 44, which becomes § 52. They voted 93 MPs: 75 against 1 abstention 17. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u110	Under § 42, there is a proposal from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova: In § 45 in the new content of art. 92 in para. 1 is finally added in compliance with the minimum monthly size requirement under the Law on the Development of the Academic Board in the Republic of Bulgaria. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 45, which shall become § 53. Under § 46, there is a proposal from the National Representative Milena Damyanova, made in accordance with Article 46. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 46, which shall become § 54: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 95 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 sentence first after the word "schools" shall be added to the scientific organizations under art. 47, para. the following sentence is added: 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The amount of the fees under para. 2 may not be higher than two thirds of the means of supporting the training determined in accordance with art. Reg. 91, para. 2, p. 1 and 3............................................................................................................ 3. Alinea 4 is amended as follows: The amount of the fees for the training under art. 21, para. 2 and 3 and under art. 9, para. 3, p. 6 point (b) is defined as the means of maintenance of the training determined in accordance with art. Reg. 91, para. 2, p. 1 and 3, the amount of the fee under para 3 shall be added. 2 for the relevant professional direction or specialty of regulated professions and the training fees under art. 21, para. 5 shall not be less than 70 per cent of the means of maintenance determined under art. Reg. 91, para. 3, p. 1 and 3............................................................................................................ 4. In para. 7. (a) point 4 is amended as follows: "4." persons who, at the time of the age of age, have the protection measure taken under the Law on Child Protection, are in foster care, a social service of a resident type or a specialized institution; (b) To be created t. 8. It's 8 o'clock. students studying in professional fields and protected specialties with the highest expected future shortage of the labour market, according to a list adopted by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 47, which shall become § 55.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u111	Thank you. Statements? Mrs. Sidorova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u112	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister, Mr. Deputy Minister! The proposal I will present to your attention and I hope it will receive your support is to amend art. 92, para. 1 of § 45, which concerns the minimum wage of persons holding academic positions. The aim of this proposal is to set minimum salaries for the following positions: assistant I'm going to remind you of the chronology of this idea of mine that I'm defending right now. In 2015, Bulgaria asked the European Commission to monitor the state of research and science in our country. One of the conclusions in this monitoring is that low labour pay in this area is one of the main problems. The same conclusion and recommendation that the salaries of employees in the scientific field should be increased, we also meet in the Research Strategy. Currently, an assistant starts with a salary of 800 leva. Chief assistant at the leading Sofia University has a basic salary of 850 BGN. Then I'll show you his ticket. Just for comparison, I will mention what are the main wages of teachers in higher education institutions on the Balkan Peninsula. The average salary for academic position at a university in Serbia, Nis as an assistant is 640 euros, and for a professor at 850 euros. In Albania, at the University of Korca, an assistant takes 550 euros; in northern Macedonia an assistant takes 650 euros, and chief assistant In Romania, an assistant takes 800 euros, a chief assistant of 1000 euros, associate professor of up to 1600 euros, and professor of 2400 euros. After the numbers for Romania, I think there is no point in continuing for other European universities. It is unacceptable that the salaries of the lecturers in the higher education institutions in Bulgaria should be proportionate to the remuneration in forms of employment where high qualification and educational value is not required. Today, honourable Members, we must make a responsible decision to the Bulgarian scientists because, as is known, the country's largest export is the export of highly educated people. I know that my proposal is perceived as interfering with the autonomy of higher education institutions. And is the Ministry of Education and Science's proposal that the minimum salary of the low academic position in state higher schools be determined by an act of the Council of Ministers is not interference in autonomy?! And does this mean that the assistants will be waiting every year for the favorable treatment of another Council of Ministers?! The truth is that my proposal is not an intervention, it is just the subsidy that the state allocates for higher education and science is quite low. It grows at a rate much lower than that for secondary education. This is a prerequisite for a number of universities not being able to raise salaries to an amount that increases the standard of living. In recent years, there has been a tendency for university professors to choose the teaching profession for better pay. There is nothing wrong with that, but the truth is that there will come a time when there will be no one to train future teachers, because we will simply not have young teachers at universities. I conclude with an appeal to you for reason and support of my proposal because it is extremely important today to protect the Bulgarian scientific community and to pay a decent wage for their work. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u113	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sidorova. Are there any lines? You have the floor for a line, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u114	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I use the line to say the following: Bulgaria is the only country in the world where teachers' salaries in higher education institutions become lower than teachers' teachers in secondary schools. This, honourable Members, is contrary to common sense and we therefore propose that changes be made, Mr. Minister, honourable colleague. We supported the increase in teachers' salaries, but I say again: not only is it contrary to world practice, it is contrary to common sense, a more engaging teacher of gymnastics in Lylyace to get a higher salary than an associate professor or professor! The Bulgarian government, we in Parliament, are obliged to resolve this misunderstanding. It hasn't been said, coworker, that we've been offering this for several years. Shame on some representatives of the Rector's Council! Shame on the representatives of the Federation of Higher Education who have been silent and have not supported this proposal, as they have dependencies that should not be taken into account. I'm going to graduate, it's no interference in the work of universities. In all European countries, European Union members, teachers' salaries are determined by a four-five-level pay system in Italy, France, Germany and so on. We also very much insist, on behalf of the academic community, that this misunderstanding be corrected so that we are not the only country in the world where people raise their shoulders when it comes to pay in higher education. In addition, we supported the texts.Bravo on the proposals for changes in higher education, but one of the reasons for the teachers to jump over with the bags from university to university is their miserable salaries. People around the world have solved this problem with a dignified reward, meeting the Bulgarian standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u115	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. Another line? A hole? Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the issue was also discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Education and Science. There are no misunderstandings - there is a different pattern of regulation in the system of preschool and school education, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, in the system of higher education. In the system of higher education, relations between the state and higher schools are more like relationships between a contracting entity and a contractor, such as between a public and private legal entity. This is about the model of academic autonomy. The state does not regulate the number of staff, does not regulate the elements of remuneration. What does it mean to guarantee them a minimum wage? It means that they can "You, the higher schools, as Mr. Gechev is a representative of the higher schools " from now on you can employ twice as many people. You don't have a limit on your standards because there are people in higher schools who don't have norms, but teach. There are professional directions in which we canceled the reception, but in these professional directions continue to support lecturers. There's an average of 100 hours. Yeah, it's true, they're an exception. You can't compare it with teachers, as teachers average 700 hours and average salaries in higher schools are far higher than those in schools. In the financing of higher schools over the past 10 years, the increase in subsidy is no lower than that of schools. So all these comparisons are inappropriate and are in favor of the higher education system. However, the higher education system has chosen to maintain much higher differences between the salaries of older teachers and the salaries of younger teachers. These differences are over 2 1/2 times. Before that, just to insert: the average salary in higher schools now, after this year's increase, will probably be two thousand levs for the talk, and in schools will probably be about one thousand and five hundred levs, despite these advance increases. But higher schools have chosen to maintain large differences by gaining more percentage in time served. Every time we and the union organizations in the school education system decide how to raise salaries, we manage to convince them and they agree that it is more important to maximize the minimum wage, which has a signal significance to young teachers and providing the system with pedagogical specialists, while higher schools have chosen to accumulate many elements of parenthood and then say that the state is the one that prevents young teachers. This is a conscious decision of the academic guides, which has been taken in the process, in an autonomy regime. We can't just regulate one element. If higher schools decide that there should be 3% time served on these basic salaries you offer, do we have to provide them, too? Many questions arise and such a pattern of regulation is a matter of overall change, what you are proposing is a question of a comprehensive programme of the model of academic autonomy. We have reason to offer only a minimum wage, as we have a total minimum wage in the country. It is precisely because of this distortion, which I told you.. that in the general case in the academic bodies of management are presented lecturers who are habilitated, who are of higher average age than young teachers, and they have decided to make such a design of the system of pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u117	Thank you, dear Minister. I don't see any other speeches and we're going to vote. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Kristina Sidorova. 110 MPs voted: 41, against 21, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. I now put to the vote the text of the importer for § 45, which becomes § 53; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 46, which becomes § 54; and the text of the importer for § 47, which becomes §55. They voted 108 MPs: 78, against 2, abstention 28. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u118	Under § 48, there is a proposal from Mr. Tzipov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 48, which shall become § 56: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: The provisions of Art. 4 (1) (a), (b) and (c) shall not apply to any of the following: 95, para. 3 does not apply to the Academies and Higher Schools of the Ministry of Defence system. 3. The creation of para. 3: The provisions of Article 4 (1) (b) and (c) of this Agreement shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement and shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. 10, para. 2, p. Art. 10, art. 30, para. Art. 5 and art. 46, para. 1 shall not apply to the Academy of the Ministry of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u119	Statements? I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 48, which shall become § 56. 99 MPs voted: 96, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u120	Under § 49, there is a proposal from the MPs Nikolai Tsonkov and Valeri Jablyanov: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 49: (a) A new item shall be created. 1: "1." In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 after the word "Australia', a comma shall be placed and added for the hypotheses of § 11 of the transitional and final provisions. b) current t. 1 and 2 become ct, respectively. 2 and 3. The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Stanislav Stanilov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 49, which shall become § 57.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u121	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal by the Commission of the MPs Nikolay Tsonkov and Valeri Zablyanov. They voted 103 MPs: 34 against 28, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 49, which shall become § 57. Vote 96 MPs: 86 against 1, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u122	Under § 50, there is a proposal from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev: The following amendments and additions shall be made to the creations § 4k: 1. In para. 5, t. 3 the words............................................................................................................. are dropped............................................................................................................................................... 2. In para. The 7th sentence, second sentence, is out. 3. In para. The 10th sentence first the words "art." 228 of the Pre-school and School Education Act is replaced by the System for Evaluation and Maintenance of Quality of Education and Research at the University of Sofia (SOPCONI). 4. They're creating an al. 26 s 29: "Standings" and "Standings," para. 1 may change the framework study plan for professional fields of professions related to information and communication technologies, while maintaining the total number of hours provided for the general education disciplines of Section A at the First High School stage. The proposals for amendments to the Framework Study Plan shall be adopted by the Pedagogical Council of the Unit under para. 1, are confirmed by the Rector of TU Sofia, and enter into force after validation by the Minister of Education and Science. (27) An integrated vocational high school in a higher school is opened by order of the Minister of Education and Science. (28) The procedure for issuing the order for the opening of the integrated vocational high school shall begin on a reasoned proposal from the Rector of the Higher School after a decision of the Academic Council. The order for the opening of an integrated professional high school and the necessary documents shall be determined by a regulation of the Minister of Education and Science. (29) All integrated vocational schools shall be subject to the provisions concerning the units under para. 1 for the relevant university. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 50, which shall become §58. Under § 51 there is a proposal from the MPs Venka Stoyanova and Ivo Hristov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 51, which shall become § 59: ............... 59................................................................... Paragraph 11 of the transitional and final provisions shall be amended as follows: (1) On a proposal of the Department Council and the Council of the main unit and/or branch after a decision of the Academic Council, the labor contracts with the habilitated persons at the age of art. 328, para. 1, t. 10 of the Labour Code may be extended for up to three years. (2) The extension of the employment relationship with the habilitated persons under para. 1 shall be governed by a fixed-term contract of employment.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u123	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Zhelyo Boychev. They voted 98 MPs: 18, against 34, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 50, which shall become § 58; and the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 51, which shall become § 59. 84 MPs voted: 78, none, abstention 6. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u124	"Additional provision'. The Commission does not support the wording of the importer and proposes that the name Under § 52, the Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer, which is reflected in its respective systematic place in § 65, and therefore proposes that § 52 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u125	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the motion for rejection made by the Commission to the text of the importer for the name of the compartment, as well as the text of the importer for § 52. 90 MPs voted: 86, none, abstention 4. The proposals have been accepted. We interrupt work for thirty minutes. Start of work - 12:00 p.m. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u126	We're continuing the hearing, colleagues. Mrs. Zaharieva, you have the floor to report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 53, which shall become § 60: ........................................................ The institutional and programme accreditation procedures opened until the entry into force of this Act, for project evaluation, and the ongoing and non-executed follow-up and control procedures are completed under the current terms and conditions. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 54, which shall become § 61. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 55, which shall become § 62: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The employment relations of the employees in the units under § 4k of the additional provisions shall be governed under the conditions of art. 123, para. 1, t. 5 of the Labour Code. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 56, which shall become § 63: .............................................................................. The powers of the Director are exercised by the powers of the Executive Director to the entry into force of this Act, respectively, Director of the Technical School of Electronic Systems and of the Technical University of Sofia, and the Professional High School of Computer Technology and Systems. Pravets. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 57, which shall become § 64: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Within one year of the entry into force of this law, the Minister of Education and Science shall develop and import for adoption by the Council of Ministers the National Map of Higher Education in the Republic of Bulgaria under art. 9, para. 3, p. 1a........................................................................................................... The Commission proposes to establish § 65: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Until the adoption by the Council of Ministers of the National Map of Higher Education in the Republic of Bulgaria, no new higher education schools, territorially exported structures and branches of higher schools, faculties, departments and colleges in state universities are opened, and no higher education schools, major units and branches in state universities are transformed except for transformation for consolidation and optimization purposes. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 58, which shall become § 66: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) The Minister of Education and Science shall conclude management contracts under art. 10, para. 2, p. 10 with the Rectors of State Higher Schools, for which after the entry into force of this law more than two years remain until their term of office is completed after the validation of the rules of art. 92, para. 2. (2) The Minister of Education and Science: 1. within three months of the entry into force of this law shall establish a development policy under art. 10, para. 2, p. 9; 2. within 4 months of the entry into force of this law, the rules under art. 92, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u128	Let's stop here. Here you go, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, I am taking a speech to make an editorial amendment, rather technical, in the new § 65 of the third row................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The editing is in line with the terminology that we have adopted so far in the Bill. Here it has remained this way, and therefore I ask that such a word be made with the word "structurals" be replaced by the word "supposed."
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u130	Thank you. I think that we should simply vote on the text with the new term'spoken' when the error is rather technical. Any other comments on the paragraphs so reported? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the name of the section of the European Commission; § 53, which shall become § 60 in the version of the Commission; § 54, which shall become § 61; paragraphs 55, 56 and 57 in the version of the Commission, which shall respectively become paragraphs 62, 63 and 64; the new § 65 together with the technical correction of the procedural documents of the Commission; and § 58 in the version of the Commission which shall become § 66. Please, voting mode. 86 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u131	Proposal by the MP Jemma Grozdanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal by the MP Borislav Borisov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 67: ................. 67................................................................. (1) The term of office of persons who, at the entry into force of this Act, occupy the principal positions of the Rector, Dean, Director of the Department, Branch and College, Head of the Department and their alternates shall not be terminated early at the age of 65. (2) The persons who take up positions under para. 1 and have reached the age of 65 at the time of the entry into force of this law, complete their mandates under the conditions under which they are elected. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 59, which shall become § 68. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 60, which shall become § 69: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The electronic platform under art. 75, para. 6 shall be developed and operational within two years of the entry into force of this law. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 61 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u132	I shall put to the vote the proposals for the creation of a new § 67; § 59 by importer which shall become § 68; § 60, which shall become § 69 in the version of the Commission; and for the removal of § 61. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u133	Under § 62, there is a proposal from the MP Irena Anastasova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Irena Anastasova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Milena Damyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 62, which shall become § 70: ...... 70......................................................................... In the Law on pre-school and school education (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 28 are created. 3 and 4: The Autonomous Communities of State and Municipal High Schools, secondary and specialized schools shall also include the right to conclude agreements with state universities on joint education in educational subjects and/or modules for the acquisition of profiled and/or vocational training in the second high school stage, as well as on educational subjects for the acquisition of specialized training in the middle degree of education, subject to the requirements of this Law and the Higher Education Act. (4) Under the terms and conditions of this Law and of the Law on Higher Education in the Agreement under para. 3 Provision may be made for training in some or all of the educational subjects and/or modules for the acquisition of the profiled, professional or specialized school training to be carried out by persons holding academic positions in the higher school who work in the relevant subject matter or module scientific field. They teach at the school within the established working hours of their employment with the higher school, without being appointed to a teaching position. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 82, para. 2 words.............................................................................. 76, para. 1, 3, 4 and 5 76, para. 1.. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 88 is created. In the schools of culture the training to acquire specialized training in the VIII class can also be carried out in compulsory classes instead of the study subject history and civilizations. In these cases, the educational content to acquire general education on the subject of history and civilizations intended to be studied in the eighth grade is mandatory to be included in the elective classes in the ninth grade. (5) In professional high schools and in vocational training classes, the required classes of music and/or fine art in Section A of the study plan may be used for the training to acquire professional training in the elective classes in Section B of the study plan while maintaining the total number of classes in Section A and B. (6) Training hours in Section A of the curriculum provided for training for the acquisition of general professional training may be used for the acquisition of industry and/or specific professional training in Section B of the curriculum, and the study subjects for the acquisition of general professional training shall be provided for the study in the chosen classes of the school curriculum until the end of the degree in: 1. vocational schools and vocational training classes; 2. the schools of arts; 3. Sports schools. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 94 is The school curriculum of the school with an agreement under art. 28, para. 3 shall be agreed with the higher school and accepted and validated in accordance with para. 4. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 103, para. 4 is amended as follows: (OJ L 193, 11.7.2014, p. 1). 3 are allowed for: 1. training through work (dual system of training), where the total number of compulsory and selectable hours per week can reach up to 40 hours of training, including the time for practice at the specified place of work; 2. training in innovative schools; 3. schools with an agreement under art. 28, para. 3, Schools of Culture, Arts and Sports Schools, where the total number of compulsory and elective classes in one school week can reach up to 40 hours. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) New paras shall be created. 2 and para. 3: In secondary school, in a united school and in a profiled high school in cities with a population of over 30 thousand. Souls, under the conditions of para. 1, t. 1, 2 and 4 may be established a state admission for training in vocational qualification classes, even if there are one or more schools in the municipality that offer the same training, but the material and technical basis at their disposal is not sufficient and/or insufficient to provide the training with the necessary vocational training teachers. (3) In the cases under para. 2 The state plan-admission for training in the classes for the acquisition of professional qualifications in secondary school, in a united school and in a profiled high school shall be validated after the permission of the Minister of Education and Science if there is a need for professionals with professional qualifications in a relevant profession. (b) The so far para. 2 becomes para. 4; c) The so far para. 3 becomes para. 5 and in it the number 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 262, para. The second sentence is created: In schools with an agreement under art. 28, para. 3 in the meetings of the pedagogical council with the right to a consultative vote may also be attended by persons holding academic positions who are teaching at the school. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 19 words. The following points are inserted after point 13 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 October 2011 (b) in para. 20 words................................................................................. The following points are inserted after point (c) the creation of para. 25: "Schools" with an agreement under art. 28, para. 3 transfer funds to the higher schools for the part of the remuneration of the persons holding an academic position who are training at the school. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 289, para. 1, t. 4 the word "supplier' is replaced by "supplier'. 10. Paragraph 5b shall be inserted in the Additional Provisions: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. (1) In the system of pre-school and school education shall also include the units under § 4k of the Additional Provisions of the Law on Higher Education which apply the provisions of this Law laid down for state vocational schools, in accordance with the specifics and organisation of the training in them and insofar as nothing else is provided for in the Law on Higher Education. (2) The Minister of Education and Science and the Head of Regional Management of Education shall exercise control over the activities of the units under para. 1 to comply with this law and with the regulations governing its application. (3) In the event of infringement, the Minister of Education and Science, the Head of Regional Education Management or officials authorised by them, shall give mandatory prescriptions and set a deadline for their implementation. (4) The mandatory provisions of para. 3 may be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. (5) The school curriculum of the units under para. 1 shall be agreed, accepted and validated in accordance with Article 1. 94, para. 5. (6) The exception under art. 103, para. 4 t. 3 is also allowed for training in the units under para. 1. (7) In the training in the units under para. 1 shall also be evaluated according to the educational subjects, modules or activities provided for studying in the optional hours of the school curriculum.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u134	Are there any speeches on this paragraph? I can't see. I shall put to the vote § 62, which shall become § 70 in the version of the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u135	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 63, which shall become § 71: In the Law on Vocational Education and Training (prom., SG No. ...) the following additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 34 is The examination referred to in Art. 33, para. 1, t. 2 for the acquisition of a third degree of professional qualification at the request of the student can also be carried out through the protection of a diploma project. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35, para. 1 after the words the workers and employees shall be comma and added to the schools with an agreement under art. 28, para. 3 of the Law on pre-school and school education and representatives of the relevant higher schools. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 36 is The State exam for obtaining professional qualification through the protection of a diploma project shall be held before the relevant commission under art. 35, para. 1. The diploma project is prepared on an individual assignment and is a theoretical practical development in which the acquired knowledge, skills and competences in the speciality of the profession are applied. 4. A new § 3a is set up in the Additional Provisions: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) In the system of vocational education and training are also included the units under § 4k of the Additional provisions of the Higher Education Act, which apply the provisions of this Law laid down for the State Professional High School, in accordance with the specifics and organisation of the training in them and insofar as nothing else is provided for in the Higher Education Act. (2) In the units under para. 1 Exam under art. 33, para. 1, t. 2 for the acquisition of a third degree of professional qualification shall be carried out only through the protection of a graduate project. The Commission proposes to establish § 72: ................. The exam under art. 33, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on vocational education and training for the acquisition of a third degree of professional qualification through the protection of a diploma project is conducted by the academic year 2021/2022, except in the units of § 3a, para. 2 of the Additional Provisions of the Law on Vocational Education and Training. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 64, which shall become § 73. .............................................................................. In the Act for recognition of professional qualifications (prom., SG No. (b) Paragraph 4 of the Additional Provisions shall be inserted in para. 5. The certificates referred to in para. 1 shall be issued within 30 calendar days of the provision of a standard service and within 10 working days of the rapid service. Proposal by the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 74: ................ 74.................................................................. In the Law on the Development of the Academic Board in the Republic of Bulgaria (prom., SG No. Art....) 29c, para. Two is canceled.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u136	I shall put to the vote § 63, which shall become § 71 in the version of the Commission; the new § 72 proposed by the Commission; § 64, which shall become § 73 in the version of the Commission; and the new § 74. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u137	Proposal by the National Representative Kristina Sidorova: In Transitional and Final Provisions, § 65 is set up: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on the Development of the academic staff in the Republic of Bulgaria (prom., SG No. ...) shall be created art. 15a: Art. 15a. The persons holding academic positions in state universities, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the Agricultural Academy receive monthly remuneration, formed by rules adopted by an act of the Council of Ministers, but not less than: 1. for the position of the assistant, the minimum wage established for the country twice; 2. for a position of chief assistant....three times the minimum wage established for the country; 3. for a position of associate professor.. four times the minimum wage established for the country; 4. for a position of Professor.. five times the minimum wage established for the country................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Emil Hristov. The motion has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u138	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Damyanova, on the proposal of the National Representative Kristina Sidorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u139	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In fact, I will break the Rules a little bit, I will not speak on the proposal of my colleague Sidorova. I would like to thank all my colleagues who are members of the Committee on Education and Science; thank you, associate professor Valcheva; representatives of the Council of Rectors and the National Representation of Student Councils who participated in the working groups and meetings of the Commission. I think that together we adopted working texts, developed working texts that will return and increase the quality, trust and control in higher schools and without revolutionary changes will enable both universities in Bulgaria and higher education, as well as teachers, students, and even schools from the system of preschool and school education. Thank you, colleagues, one more time!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. We accept that you have not broken the Rules, but it is on Mrs. Sidorova's proposal. I have to put it to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Kristina Sidorova, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 99 MPs: 36, against 4, abstention 59. This was the last vote on this item on the agenda. Moving on to point two for today: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR SAFE USE OF NUCLEAR ENERGY. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 2 September 2019. The first vote was adopted on 7 November 2019. You're welcome to report the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! On 7 November 2019 the Council of Ministers submitted a report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Safe Use of Nuclear Energy, No 902-01-46, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 2 September 2019, which was adopted at the first vote on 7 November 2019. The Act on the Safe Use of Nuclear Energy is amended and supplemented by the Law on the Safe Use of Nuclear Energy. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1, in the text prior to that. 1 after the word The Commission shall support the text of importers for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u142	I put to the vote the name of the Law as well as paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Commission Report. Vote 88 MPs: 79, against 2, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u143	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following amendments to § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the The requirements, regulations and rules under the regulations of para. 7 shall apply to plants with increased danger in the territory of a nuclear power plant. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u144	I shall put to the vote § 3 of the Bill in the version of the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: 73, against 2, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u145	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u146	I'm voting § 4 on the bill. Vote 80 MPs: 73, against 2, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u147	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36, para. 3 the words "the adjoining site of the nuclear facility and the special status zones' shall be replaced by the space of the nuclear facility.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u148	I shall put to the vote § 5 of the Bill in the version of the Commission. I don't ask if anyone is willing to speak, but if anyone is willing, let them state themselves. I'm saving time. Vote 96 MPs: 94, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u149	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... In Chapter 3, Section III is inserted: art. 44a: Art. 44a. The Council of Ministers may, on a proposal from the Chair of the Agency, in agreement with the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Minister of Defence, designate areas above certain nuclear facilities which introduce restrictions and restrictions on airspace.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u150	I shall put to the vote the version of the Commission under § 6. They voted 93 MPs: 91, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u151	The Commission proposes to create a new § 7: .................................................... In Chapter 3, Section III is inserted: art. 44b: Art. 44b. The technical supervision of high-risk facilities on the territory of a nuclear power plant which are specially designed for nuclear use and are relevant for nuclear safety shall be carried out by a specialised unit directly subordinate to the head of the licencer operating a nuclear power plant and under the methodological direction of the Chair of the Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u152	I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 7. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u153	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u154	I shall put to the vote paragraphs 7 and 8, which shall become paragraphs 8 and 9 respectively. 100 MPs voted: 99, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u155	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for No 9, but on the basis of art. 50, para. 1 of Decree No 883 implementing the Law on Legislative Acts proposes to be formed in separate paragraphs from § 10 to § 13. The Commission proposes to create new paragraphs 10 - 13: ..................................................... Article 117 is amended as follows: Art. 117. (1) The authorities of the executive authority and persons carrying out operational, operational and decommissioning activities of nuclear installations or activities in the production, transport, storage and use of nuclear material or source of ionizing radiation shall determine emergency planning and emergency preparedness measures by applying a graded approach. (2) Emergency planning and emergency preparedness measures shall be established by: 1. an external emergency plan which determines the functions and actions of the executive bodies for the protection of the population in the preventive protection area and the emergency protection area; 2. an internal emergency plan which determines the functions and actions of the licencer or authorisation holder within the boundaries of the site where a nuclear facility or source of ionizing radiation is located. (3) The actions of the bodies and persons under para. 1 shall be coordinated in the Single Rescue System under the Disaster Protection Act. § 11. Article 118 is amended as follows: Art. 118. The external emergency plan under art. 117, para. 2, p. 1 is a mandatory part of the National Disaster Protection Plan which is being developed, adopted, maintained, reviewed and updated under the Disaster Protection Act. § 12. Article 120 is amended as follows: Art. 120. (1) A person putting into service a nuclear facility shall submit for coordination an internal emergency plan to the Chair of the Agency, to the specialized state body for fire safety and protection of the population, to the Minister of Health and to the Minister of Environment and Water 6 months before the planned start of the facility. The instructions of the relevant coordinating body within the limits of its powers shall be binding for implementation. (2) The holder of the authorisation for the placing in service of a nuclear facility shall verify and evaluate the internal emergency plan before the installation of the facility is put into operation. (3) The licence holder who operates a nuclear facility shall verify and evaluate the internal emergency plan during the operation of the facility, as well as the individual parts of the plan at specified intervals. § 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 122 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: The licence holder operating a nuclear facility shall perform in the event of an accident radiation monitoring at the site in the preventive protection area and the emergency protection area.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u156	I shall put to the vote § 9 which shall be formed in new paragraphs 10 to 13 on a proposal from the Commission. They voted 106 MPs: for 106, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u157	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u158	I put to the vote § 10, which becomes § 14. They voted 93 MPs: 92, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u159	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... The additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In § 1: (a) c. 9 words.............................................................................. The following points are inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1) of b) To be created t. 11a and 11b: 11 o'clock. The area for urgent protective measures shall be a territory around the site of a nuclear facility which shall establish an organisation for the implementation of emergency protective measures in the event of an accident in order to prevent the irradiation of persons of the population above the acceptable dose levels to be determined by the ordinance under art. 26, para. 3. Protection measures shall be taken on the basis of the results of radiation monitoring and/or the specific emergency conditions of the facility. 11b. The Pre-emptive Protection Zone is a territory around the site of a nuclear facility in which an organisation is established to implement immediate protective measures in the event of an accident in order to prevent or minimise any serious discriminatory effects. The protective measures shall be taken prior to or immediately following radioactive discharges or irradiation, depending on the specific emergency conditions of the facility. (c) c. the first sentence of the first sentence, including the closure of a plant for the disposal of radioactive waste or nuclear fuel, is deleted; (d) point 17 is amended as follows: Seventeen. The incident is any adverse event, the real or potential consequences of which cannot be ignored from the point of view of nuclear safety and/or radiation protection. (e) create a t. 28a: It's 28a. The territory of which a nuclear facility or source of ionizing radiation is situated within the limits of which an authorised activity under this law is carried out; (f) c. 38 words, including one or more refusals of staff equipment, error or error and/or deficiencies in the instructions and procedures and the comma after them, shall be deleted; (g) c. 40a after the words (h) point 48 is amended as follows: It's 48. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 2. Paragraph 1i is inserted: .................................................................................. (1) Construction of residential and public buildings, children's, health and nutrition establishments, industrial, social and cultural sites and other non-nuclear facilities shall be prohibited in the preventive protection area. (2) Restrictions on the use of land, forests and water sites in the territory of the preventive protection zone may be imposed by the Minister of Health, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and the Minister of Environment and Water within their competence under law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u160	I shall put to the vote § 11 in the version of the Commission which shall become § 15. Vote 98 MPs: 98, no objection, abstention 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u161	The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for § 12 but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 7. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for § 13, but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 15, point. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u162	I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposals § 12 and § 13 to be rejected because they are reflected in their systematic place, § 7 and § 15, respectively. 2. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u163	Mr. President, due to a technical error where the terms of the title have been translated and concluded, the Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for the name and proposes to replace it as follows: The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u164	I put the name to the vote on a proposal from the Commission "Concluding provisions" and § 14, which becomes § 16. Vote 97 MPs: for 96, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u165	According to § 15 there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 15 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u166	I put to the vote the Commission's proposal § 15 to be rejected. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u167	Proposal of the National Representative Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs to be established § 16 and § 17. The proposal to create § 17 has been withdrawn. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 17: Seventeen. In the transitional and final provisions of the Law on concessions ( SG No. 96, 2017) In § 10, a sentence second is created: 118g, para. 1, t. 4 and 5 of the Water Act do not apply to water capture, for which a permit was granted on 9 August 2010 under the terms and conditions of the Water Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u168	You have the floor, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u169	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The motive for submitting this proposal with my colleagues is that literally until months ago 43 small hydropower plants, which have met absolutely all the requirements under the Directive and under the Bulgarian legislation, have worked and because their 10-year working period has expired, their permit has been suspended and has not been restored. It's about 43 working sites built. True, they are in protected areas, but they have fulfilled all the requirements that have been laid down by the relevant laws. Now because of the change in legislation in the meantime, they lose their right to work. In the case of me, I do not like under pressure from environmental organisations which strongly distort the truth about this issue, that we carry out an execution, because behind these 43 sites there are not only investments that are of the order of over 80 million. Euros, and there are working people here, there are families that make a living there. We have no evidence of any activity by which they violate environmental standards. Naturally, all of this is a matter of control, but I do not want the National Assembly to remove these 43 working economic sites and to throw them out, to actually liquidate them. Because what's next? Subsequently, these built-up small hydropower plants, as I said, providing perhaps hundreds of families with livelihoods, will remain there in their locations, from then on they must go into one mode of removal. This is all pointless. I believe that the Bulgarian National Assembly should in any way promote the economy of Bulgaria, whether it is private or state, as it is thus promoting development. This is the reason why we are bringing this change to the Law through the relevant law that we are now looking at. On the other hand, however, I have literally seen in the last few days the change in public mood, which, naturally, has been handled by the media. However, unfortunately, I see a change in the political setting here in Parliament, and it is clear to me that this proposal will not pass. I wish we weren't executioners after all, because, economically speaking, these are living organisms. Let us not destroy them, not to wipe them out, but to have a larger discussion, a discussion in plenary, to which to invite the respective representatives of the ministries and quite detailed and professionally to approach this issue, naturally, at a later stage. With great regret, if I may, I would suggest a withdrawal of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u170	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. - What's the line? I can't see. Here you are, Mr. Kostadinov, for your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u171	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Simeonov, we at a meeting of the Committee on Energy with 17 to zero have clearly supported your proposal. You are right that at the moment public tension and everything else that is happening does not create the best framework for a solution. I accept that I can say with a certain sense of dissatisfaction, the desire to withdraw the text, but really mind is better to prevail and I would only accept it in the context of having a very serious, this time in-depth discussion about what we do. Because I'm very sorry, but I've come to know the opinions of the Ministry of Environment and Water. I would like to inform you, honourable Members, what the state tells us: The four thirty-three hydropower plants falling into protected areas are built and put into operation after 9 August 2010 in contradiction with the provisions of art. 118g and in violation of the legislation in force. Dear colleagues, how can such an official sentence be present in a document of the Ministry? These are projects that are licensed for construction, with past judgment, evaluation, EIA report, and years later the Bulgarian state says: "They act in violation of the legislation. There is no other European country which, through its river basin management plans, introduces absolute bans on the whole territory. European legislation does not exclude the possibility of building hydropower plants. It doesn't forbid them. European legislation says the opposite where, how and under what conditions they could be built. This is a very long conversation. The state has taken an extremely inappropriate approach to resolve this issue. The date 9 May 2010 related to river basin management plans is not the correct date. We can cry, in conclusion, honourable Members, why the state does not have foreign investment. It's all our fault. On the basis of a broad discussion, a broad debate, an agreement between the political forces on this matter must be achieved justice. The only place, unfortunately, where the ecology of development is still opposed in Europe is Bulgaria. There is no such logic in European environmental legislation. The MOEW did not issue and prescribe the regimes for about 200 Natura 2000 sites. However, this cannot be opposed to past State actions to the detriment of investors. Thank you, Mr. Simeonov, for what you are doing, but I can only accept it if the parliamentary groups in a very serious debate come to a unanimous opinion, because, excuse me, we are not right. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u172	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Genov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u173	Mr. Chairman, I will use the moment after Mr. Simeonov's wise decision to withdraw this bill, because, honourable Members, we were faced with the serious danger of enriching the collection of this National Assembly by absurd lawmaking. Mr. Simeonov presented before us a case of both investment and environmental interests. We were offered to vote on a problem hanging over the years that would solve the fate of small hydropowers during, notice, colleagues, the Nuclear Energy Act. I think this would have been a great achievement in European and global parliamentaryism to solve the problems of nuclear power plants. That is why we, like our colleague just now from our parliamentary group, from the BSP to Bulgaria and we insist that the main outlines of this case be clear. I'm not gonna be too talkative, I'm gonna schematic them in a hurry. There is a problem piled up for years, and it is a problem of carelessness affecting both the interests of investors and millions of left-wing investments and environmental problems created by the existence of these sites. Very interesting is the debate in the Energy Committee, where the Ministry sends a negative opinion, no one is present from the Ministry. A law with transitional and final provisions which, in my opinion and in normal parliamentary logic, should also be seen in the Committee on Environment and Water. Something like that didn't happen. I would like to remind my colleagues who are not familiar. Years ago, there was an opinion of the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office. There it was very clearly said that in this sector, there is chaos in this segment. The Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Environment and Water were asked by this prosecution because it has no other option but to recommend, as an authority, to fix the chaos. It's been two years. It's been there. And it must be clear to everyone that this problem must be solved. Mr. Simeonov, when you propose a broad debate, I think you should have made it public earlier. It's a good thing you said that. We will participate and participate, but, you know, what would have happened again in society would have left the impression that this Parliament is a vivid example of lobbyist and I do not know what other interests. I don't have hydropower, Mr. Simeonov, and you probably don't. This injustice must indeed be resolved, but let it be resolved in such a way as to serve the interests of both investors and ecology, in particular, the use of surface, underground and other waters in protected areas, and in areas that do not fall within the Natura 2000 area. I welcome you for withdrawing the Law. We at BSP will actively participate in a forthcoming debate on this very issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u174	Are there any other statements? I won't. That concludes the review of the Bill. Colleagues, excuse me, he is not withdrawn from the Commission, but he is officially withdrawn from the House, so he will not be voted on. We continue with the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE ADVANTAGE OF SOCIAL AND SOLIDAR ECONOMICS. The representatives of the National Assembly are Alexander Siddy and Kalin Popovski. Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Enterprises for Social and Solidar Economy, No 054-01-2, submitted by the MPs Alexander Siddy and Kalin Popovski, was adopted at the first vote on 5 February 2020. The Law on Enterprises for the Social and Solidar Economy is amended and supplemented by the Law on Enterprises for the Social and Solidar Economy. Mr. President, there is a spelling error made instead of the preposition for the third version to be read in the final version of the Commission. The Act for Supplement to the Law on Enterprises of the Social and Solidar Economy.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u176	Yeah. Statements? I won't. I will put to the vote the Commission proposal to support the text of the editor with the editorial amendment made by Mr. Ademov. They voted 109 MPs: 109, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u177	Under § 1, there is a proposal from the MPs Svetlana Angelova, Kalin Popovski and Alexander Siddy. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... Article 3 is inserted in Art. 10a. For the implementation of the powers conferred on the Minister of Labour and Social Policy under this Law, access to registers administered by the National Revenue Agency shall be granted through the inter-registered exchange environment. The Commission proposes to establish a name The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-13.u178	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 1; the proposal for the establishment of a Final provision; and the version proposed by the Commission for § 2. Vote 108 MPs: for 106, against none, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted. I will present you with a parliamentary control message on Friday 14 February 2020: 1. Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev will answer two questions from the MPs Kristina Sidorova and Dimitar Danchev; and Cornelia Ninova. 2. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer a question from the MP Georgi Gokov and a question from the MPs Vassil Antonov and Milko Nedyalkov. 3. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva will answer one question and one question from the National Representative Anton Kutev. 4. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer a question from the National Representative Elena Pesheva. 5. The Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov will answer four questions from the MPs Anastas Popdimitrov; Nikolai Ivanov; Veska Nencheva, Violeta Jeleva and Kristina Sidorova; and Mladen Shishkov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva, one question from the National Representative Kristian Vigenin; and one question with a written answer from the MPs Georgi Gokov, Aleksandar Paunov, Dora Yankova, Ivan Chenchev, Manol Genov, Rumen Georgiev and Nikolay Alexandrov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question with a written answer from the MPs Georgi Gokov, Aleksandar Paunov, Dora Yankova, Ivan Chenchev, Manol Genov, Rumen Georgiev and Nikolay Alexandrov and a question from the National Representative Pavel Shopov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov at one request from the National Representative Dora Yankova; - the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to two questions with written answer from the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Ilian Timchev and Evdokiya Asenova; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Desislava Taneva - a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov to a question from the National Representative Jayhan Ibryamov; - Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov on one question from the National Representative Stefan Burgeev; and seven questions with written answer from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov [[Five questions]] ; Georgi Stoilov and Vessela Lecheva; and Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Nikolai Ivanov. For lack of respectable reasons of the National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov was postponed his question to the Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev will not participate. The next regular plenary session shall be on 14 February 2020 at 9.00 in accordance with the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
