ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members. Please take your seats. Please, registration mode. Colleagues, we don't have a quorum yet. Next registration in half an hour. Discovered at 9.53.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u2	Colleagues, please take your seats. Please, registration mode. [[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, on a proposal from the Conference of Presidents and on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the following additional points be included in the weekly Work Programme of the National Assembly: First vote on the Draft Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2021. Importer on 29 October 2020. First vote on the State Social Security Budget Bill for 2021. Importer on 29 October 2020 of the Council of Ministers. First vote on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021. Importer I also propose that this week's parliamentary review be removed. Please, a voting regime such as these points become the second, third and fourth, respectively today. They voted 116 MPs: 108, against 8, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we continue with the first point: the second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Measures...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u3	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u4	Procedure Mr. Popov. [[(Strong noise and lines from GERB, shouting:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u5	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I am making the procedure that you have just adopted and the item proposed by the Conference of Presidents on the agenda, namely the laws on budgets, to be removed from the agenda, as it has entered today in violation of art. 79 of our Rules, which provides that the report on the relevant first reading bill should be submitted to plenary no earlier than 24 hours after its view of a committee. [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP]] That period has not expired. In the second sentence of the same article. 79 of our Rules are written down, but it refers to a second vote: "Unless the National Assembly decides otherwise." But this applies to a second vote. Please observe the Rules and this item to be removed from the agenda due to a sharp contradiction with the Rules of Organisation and Procedure of the National Assembly. This article. 79 in our Rules is not accidentally put in place, as there is no necessary time for both MPs and non-governmental organisations and all stakeholders on the relevant bill, in this case we are talking about the State Budget Act, which is extremely important, to be able to get acquainted with the proposals, to be able to get acquainted with the philosophy and principles of the relevant bill, which was seen yesterday afternoon in the relevant portfolio and committee. Please withdraw or withdraw the item from the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u6	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Given the epidemic situation, if you were present at the Presidential Councils, you would know that this topic has been discussed and a unanimous decision has been taken with colleagues who were at the Chairman's Council to look at these three points today, as the situation is quite different from the normal situation at the moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u7	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u8	The way you're holding it, here you go. [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u9	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, the decisions of the Conference of Presidents cannot in any way derogate the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, which also has the power of law. There is no such authority for the Conference of Presidents to derogate an explicit norm in our Rules, which, once again, has the power of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u10	If you were in the Chamber, Mr. Popov, you could have expressed your disagreement with your vote. The House has accepted this agenda and we will work on it. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]] Unless the Assembly decides otherwise, as Mr. Simeonov tells me. Mr. Chenchev, what can we do for you? Here you go. [[Replicate from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev.]] Of course, you have the right to say your opinion and I respect it. [[GERB lines.]] The way you're running things? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u11	Yes, Madam President. Dear Madam President...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u12	Let's listen to Mr. Chenchev, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u13	Thank you for that. I don't know how you can serve me, but we're in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u14	To serve you, not to serve you. This is completely different.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u15	First of all, I would like to ask, are you really not hearing some frank insults that the House is referring to a person who is doing a procedure for you? Can't you hear or pretend you can't hear?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u16	It was so loud I couldn't hear anything, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u17	So we all heard, only you didn't. [[GERB lines.]] Please take action, because there is no order in this room. That's first. [[GERB lines.]] Second, you made a quorum after you announced 30 minutes of re-entry, it became 40 minutes and something... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Then, Madam President, you start a session with 121 votes, and a man of the ruling majority who has officially declared himself quarantined has entered the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u18	Who?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u19	And if that turns out to be the case... You know very well who he is.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u20	Who's officially quarantined? [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u21	And if that turns out to be the case, we're going to refer RZI to what you did. Not only are you running now with a shopping group, but you've started bringing in sick people. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Mr. Ivanov, in the manner of conduct. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u23	Madam President, honourable Members! I want to address all of you. We can see that you're 18 people from the opposition, is there that much, or is there no... They came here to interfere with our work when all citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria are currently waiting for us to adopt the budget. And here are some colleagues coming out, who, first of all, read... Again, I said yesterday from the stands: read more. RZI didn't give a prescription, Mr. Chenchev! So when you watch and count, count better. So, Madam President, I appeal to you, let us not waste valuable time and move on to the essence of our work and the programme adopted as an agenda. Thank you. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u24	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. We continue with the first item on the agenda... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Svilensky has a procedure. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Members of Parliament, I understand the tension in which the ruling majority is placed. And I understand the inconvenience you're in. But, Madam President, there's no breaking... I mean, there is how you show it on a daily basis, but you don't have to when adopting the state budget, which you claim is a very important thing. We don't deny it. [[GERB lines.]] You are violating the Rules of the National Assembly, which is a law in the National Assembly. Dear colleagues, I understand that you are in an awkward situation. Don't blame the opposition for not providing you with the quorum. This isn't happening today for tomorrow!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u26	We don't want your quorum.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u27	Here, Mrs. Stoyanova says she doesn't want us...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u28	Mr. Svilensky, isn't it the way it is? Don't turn to Mrs. Stoyanova, turn to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u29	No, you, Madam President, because you always criticize the opposition...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u30	I didn't criticize the opposition at all, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u31	That's why I'm taking it to you in the way that you're being led. Please stop, put Mr. Popov's procedure to the vote and drop the points that do not comply with the Rules. You can't look at anything in this room until the MPs have the reports 24 hours earlier. I understand that we need Mr. Borisov to spend another month in power.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u32	I'll put it to the vote, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u33	I think Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday has plenty of time to get acquainted with the MPs in order to vote on their consciences, not properly by order.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u34	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u35	Once again, I urge you to put the procedure to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u36	I will put to the vote Mr. Popov's proposal to drop those points. We are voting on Mr Popov's proposal for the three budget points to be dropped from the agenda today. They voted 142 MP: 38, against 104, no abstentions. The offer is not accepted. We continue with the first point for today: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW ON MEASURES AND ACTIONS ON THE TIME OF THE EXEMPTAL POSITION REFERRED TO BY DECISION OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION OF 13 MARCH 2020 AND ON THE REFUNDING OF THE REASONS. Here you are, Mr. Tzipov, so you can brief us on the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u37	Thank you, Madam President. The Act for amendment and supplement of the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and for overcoming the consequences (promise, SG No. ...).................................................... The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Proposal from the MPs Krasimir Tsipov, Plamen Nunev and Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6a The following 1. In para. 1 after the words the emergency situation shall be added to the emergency epidemic situation and the word shall be replaced by the emergency situation shall be replaced by the emergency situation shall be replaced by the emergency situation. 2. In para. The second sentence is replaced by the first sentence of the words "the emergency situation' and after the word "the emergency situation', the second sentence is added "the state of emergency situation', unless otherwise provided for in the procedural law, and the third sentence after the word "the competition' is added "the Commission's protection against discrimination', or the Commission's protection against discrimination'. 3. They're creating an al. 3, 4 and 5: (3) During the exceptional epidemic situation, the administrative heads of the judicial authorities shall take the necessary measures to protect the life and health of the participants in the proceedings and cases, as well as the judges, prosecutors, investigators and employees in the relevant administration. When the epidemiological situation is complicated, the administrative heads of the judicial authorities may set up an organisation to postpone the scheduled proceedings and cases for new dates. The administrative directors of the judicial authorities may, once within a certain period of time, but not more than 14 days, order that no open court hearings be held and that the court sittings scheduled for that period be postponed. (4) During the exceptional epidemiological situation all communications and documents shall be served at the e-mail address indicated by the party if the party has requested the service to be done electronically. In this case, the service shall be deemed to have been carried out from the day of sending a confirmation of receipt of the message. If confirmation is not made within three days of the communication being sent, the service shall be carried out in accordance with the general procedure. (5) During the exceptional epidemiological situation, the court may postpone the case if, due to hospital treatment, mandatory quarantine, isolation or enforcement of forced administrative measures under the Health Act relating to the disease CIVID-19, the party or its representative cannot appear in a hearing within 7 days of the removal of the cause, the party or its representative has submitted relevant evidence.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u38	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law and the new...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u39	Point by point, let's vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u40	Point by point, okay. We vote on the text of the importer for the name of the Law. Vote 149 MPs: for 144, against none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the new § 1 proposed by the Commission. They voted 145 MPs: 109, against 1, abstention 35. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u41	Proposal from the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is . (3) Employer or employee who is close contact within the meaning of an act of authority under art. 61 of the Health Act of a confirmed case of COVID-19, moves to work from a distance or home work, if the work permits this, for the period laid down in the act, by declaring in writing to the employer, respectively the appointing authority, the circumstance that occurred. The terms and conditions of passage, enforcement and control shall be determined by order of the employer or the appointing authority. Proposal from the MPs Krasimir Tsipov, Plamen Nunev and Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12 the following 1. In para. 1 and 2 the words "September 30' shall be replaced by "December 31'. 2. In para. 8 the word "August" is replaced by "December." "August" is replaced by "August"
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u42	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the created new § 2. Vote 149 MPs: 140 against 2, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the new § 3 proposed by the Commission. Vote 138 MPs: 129 against 2, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u43	Proposal of the MPs Krasimir Tsipov, Plamen Nunev and Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1, which shall become § 4: ............................................ The transitional and final provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In § 10: (a) in para. 1 the words..31 October 2020 shall be replaced by.31 January (b) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: The period of validity of ID cards and passports which expires from 13 March 2020 to 31 January 2021 shall be extended by 6 months. For the duration of the extension, ID cards and passports are valid identification documents in the Republic of Bulgaria and abroad under the conditions of reciprocity. At the request of the person, a new identity card or passport may be issued before the expiry of the extended period. (c) in para. The first sentence shall be replaced by the first sentence of the word "October', the words "by 6 months' shall be replaced by the words "by 7 months' from the date of expiry of the period referred to in the relevant certificate', in a sentence of the second sentence of the words "the only in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria' shall be replaced by "the European Parliament and the Council's Regulation (EU) 2020/698 of 25 May 2020 laying down special and temporary measures with a view to the outbreak of COVID-19 on the renewal or extension of certain certificates, certificates and authorisations and the postponement of certain periodic checks and continuing training in certain areas of transport legislation (OJ L 165/10 of 27 May 2020). in the third sentence, the figure (d) the creation of para. 4. . (4) During a declared emergency situation, respectively an emergency epidemic situation and under the conditions of reciprocity, a foreigner or a national of the European Union, of States Parties to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, the Swiss Confederation or of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, which has entered the territory of the country, may leave the Republic of Bulgaria through the border crossing points within the period for which the country which issued the passport or ID card has notified the Republic of Bulgaria that their validity has been extended, and provided that the person is in transit to the State of his final destination. 2. Paragraph 10a is inserted: 10a. During a declared emergency situation, the administrative control services of foreigners may continue the stay for three months of persons entering the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria under visa-free regime for short-stay and of persons entering a short-stay visa. Persons shall be entitled to apply for the extension of the authorised period of residence of three months for humanitarian reasons or for exceptional circumstances. The application for extension of the authorised period of residence shall be submitted to the administrative control services of foreigners at the place of residence of applicants. 3. In the first sentence of Paragraph 51a, the figures 7 and 8 apply during the emergency situation, respectively, to the emergency epidemic situation and two months after its cancellation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u44	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 1, which shall become § 4 of the Commission Report. Vote 149 MPs: for 147, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u45	According to § 2 there is a proposal of the MPs Krasimir Tsipov, Plamen Nunev and Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that § 2 be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 4, item 4. 2. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u46	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the rejection of § 2 and the name of the division. They voted 140 MPs: for 139, they won't mind, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u47	Proposal from the MPs Hamid Hamid and a group of MPs: In Transitional and Final Provisions shall be established §... with the following content: The Terms of Art. 40 of the Law on Political Parties, stop running during the emergency situation, as well as in the event of an emergency epidemic situation. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u48	Statements? Mr. Hamid, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the House, Dear Minister! We have made an offer to suspend the term under art. 40 of the Law on Political Parties, because this law, as well as the order issued by the Minister of Health to comply with epidemiological measures and to prohibit the collection of more than thirty people indoors, is in a coliseum with the text of art. 40 which requires political parties to hold their party congresses within a certain period of time. Therefore, in order to comply with the Minister's order and not risk the lives of hundreds of Bulgarian citizens, we have proposed this text because I believe that both the Minister and the relevant RZI will prohibit the holding of these party events, as yesterday happened with the Congress of the Football Union. We think with this proposal, we're going to stop this collision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u50	Thank you, dear Mr. Hamid. - What's the line? I can't see. Go ahead, Mr. Tsipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u51	Thank you, Madam President. In connection with the upcoming vote, the procedure is to do a roll call check.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u52	Thank you, Mr. Tzipov. [[Parliamentary groups of BSP for Bulgaria and DPS leave the hall.]] I see that Mr. Krum Zarkov is here, Kristian Vigenin, Dimitar Danchev, Georgi Svilenski, Tasco Ermenkov, please report to Please report that these people were in the room! I'm going on the list: Adlen Shukri Shevked is absent. Albena Vladimirova Naydenova- here Alexander Dimitrov Pawnov- here Alexander Ivanov Matsurev- here Alexander Koychev Ivanov- here Aleksandar Mairov Siddi-here Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov- here Alexander Petrov Alexandrov- here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov- here Alexander Tihomirov Simov- absent Altimir Emilov Adamov- here Anastas Marinov Popdimitrov- absent Angel Iliev Isaev- absent Andrian Ivanov Raykov-- here. Anna Vasileva Alexandrova- here Anna Nikolaeva Slavova- absent Anton Konstantinov Kutev- absent Asya Atanasova Peeva- here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov- here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov- absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov is absent. Bogdan Emilov Botsev- absent Boris Vangelov Borisov- here Boris Petkov Kirchev- here Boris Yankov Yachev- absent Borislav Ivanov Borisov- here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva- here Bürhan Ilyazov Abase - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov- here Valentin Georgiev Lambev- absent Valentin Ivanov Radev- here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov- here Valentin Mirchov Milushev- here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova- absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov- here Valeri Simeonov Simeonov- here Vasil Milanov Antonov- absent Vasil Tsvetkov- here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov here Velislava Ivanova Krasteva- absent Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova- here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva- absent Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - absent Veska Marinova Nencheva- absent Violeta Ruseva Jeleva - absent Vladimir Slavchev Valev- here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev- here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov- here Galya Eneva Zaharieva- here Galya Stoyanova Zhelyazkova - here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov- absent Georgi Georgiev Stoilov- absent Georgi Dimitrov Andreev- here Georgi Evdokiev Markov- absent Georgi Zaprev Dinev- here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov- absent Georgi Kolev Kolev- absent Georgi Nikolov Vergiev- absent Georgi Strahilov Svilenski was here. Georgi Tenev Stankov- here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski- absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov- absent Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova- here Daniel Petkov Yordanov- absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva- here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova- here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova- here Danka Evstatieva Zidarova-Lurtova- here Dean Stoyanov Stanchev- here Delyan Slavchev Peevski- absent Desislaw Petrov Taskov- absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov- absent Desislava Angelova Todorova- here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva- here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov was here. Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov is absent Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov- here Dimitar Boychev Petrov- here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev- here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - absent Dimitar Ivanov Avramov- absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev was here. Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov- here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov- here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov- absent Dobrin Nenov Danev- absent Donka Dimova Simeonova- absent Dora Ilieva Yankova- absent Dora Stoyanova Hristova- absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- absent Evgeni Genchev Budinov- here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva- here Evgenia Danielova Angelova- here Evdokia Slavchova Asenova- absent Elena Vladimirova Angelina- here Elena Stefanova Pesheva- here Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov- absent Emil Marinov Hristov- here Emil Seraphimov Tonchev- here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova- here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin is absent. Errol Osman Mehmet-- absent. Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev- absent Brought to you by Vassilev Iankov- here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov- absent Ivan Dimov Ivanov- absent Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev- was here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski- here Ivan Stefanov Valkov- here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov- absent Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva- here Ivo Angelov Hristov was here. Iglika Ivanova-Subeva- here Ilian Angelov Timchev- absent Imren Ismetova Mehmedova- absent Irena Metodieva Dimova- here Irena Todorova Anastasova- absent Honest Vasilev Veselinov- here Ihsan Halil Hakke is absent Yordan Apostolov-Apostolov is absent Yordan Iliev Yordanov- here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- absent Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev- here Kalin Lubenov Velev- here Kalin Nikolov Popovski- here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva- here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - absent Konstantin Veselinov Popov - absent Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev- here Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov- here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov- absent Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev- here Krasimir Mitkov Subev- here Krasimir Hristov Jankov- here Christian Ivanov Vigenin was here. Cristina Maximova Sidorova- absent Krum Kostadinov Zarkov was here. Krastina Nikolova Takova- missing Lalo Georgiev Kirilov- here Lilyana Drumeva Radeva- here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev- absent Manoil Minchev Manev- here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova- absent Maria Yordanova Ilieva- here Maria Yordanova Tsvetkova- absent Maria Shtereva Belova- here Martin Stefanov Obreshkov- absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova- here Milen Vassilev Mihov- here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova- here Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov- absent Mitko Kostadinov Polychronov- absent Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov- here Mladen Nikolov Shishkov- absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye- absent Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova- here Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer was here. Nikola Iliev Dinkov- absent Nikolay Asenov Tishev- absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov- absent Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov- here Nikolay Dimitrov Penev- absent Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov- absent Nikolay Krastev Boshkov- absent Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov- here Nikolina Panayotova Angelkova- here Nona Krasteva Yotova- missing Pavel Alexeyev Hristov- here Pavel Dimitrov Shopov- absent Petar Georgiev Kanev- absent Peter Hristov Petrov- here Plamen Dulchev Nunev- absent Plamen Ivanov Manushev- here Plamen Tachev Petrov- here Plamen Trifonov Hristov- absent Polina Alexandrova Shishkova- absent Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova - absent Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev- absent Radoslava Plamen Chekanska- here Radostin Radoslavov Tanev- here Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva- here Ramadan Bajram Atali is absent Rosen Zhivkov Ivanov- absent Rosen Malinov Malinov - absent Rumen Vassilev Gechev- absent Rumen Nikolov Georgiev- absent Rumen Petrov Genov- here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev- here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova- missing Svetlana Angelova Naydenova- here Sevim Ismail Ali is absent Sergey Manushov Kichikov- absent Simeon Georgiev Naydenov- absent Simeon Hristov Simeonov- absent Slavi Dichev Netzov- here Slavcho Stoev Atanasov- here Smilyana Nikolova Niva-Krsteva- missing Spas Georgiev Gurnevski- here Save Yanev Panchev- here Stanislav Ivanov Popov- here Stanislav Ivanov Stoyanov- here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov- here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov- here Stanislava Krasimirova Stoyanova- here Stefan Apostolov - here Stefan Ivanov Burgeev - absent Stay Mitev Stoynov- here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev- absent Stoyan Radkov Bojinov- here Tanner Mehmed Ali is missing. Tanya Todorova Petrova- here Tasko Mihailov Ermenkov- was here Teodora Atanasova Halacheva- absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva- here Todor Baychev- here Toma Lubomirov Bikov- here Thomas Nikolov Tomov- absent Philip Stefanov Popov was here. Hayri Recepov Sadakov- absent Halil Rexepov Letifov is absent Hamid Barry Hamid was here. Hassan Ahmed Ademov - absent Hristian Radev Mitev- here Hristo Georgiev Gajev-here Hristo Tanchev Prodanov- absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva- here Tsvetan Borisov Topchiev- absent Chavdar Yordanov Velinov- absent Julian Krastev Angelov- here Yulian Mihailov Papasimov- here Yavor Bozhilov Notev- absent Yavor Rumenov Bojankov- absent Krasimir Bogdanov has come in. I request that Alexander Nenkov be written off the list! We didn't see it. I made a mistake reading it. 130 MPs are present in the hall! We're continuing the hearing. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Hamid Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u53	Vote 91 MPs: 4 against 85 abstentions 2. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u54	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u55	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u56	I'm asking for a re-voting procedure. Colleagues are now entering the courtroom.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u57	It's a rethink mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u58	Mr. Minister, you must comply with the laws!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u59	They voted 115 MPs: 25, against 85, abstention 5. The proposal of MP Hamid Hamid Hamid is not accepted. Mr. Ermenkov, what is it? Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u60	Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner of conduct and in the manner in which the name check was carried out. I'd like to explain to those who were holding the meeting just now, even though they were cowardly running away so they wouldn't take responsibility and not hear what's going on right now. [[Voices from GERB: "Eee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u61	Forty-second National Assembly!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u62	No insulting qualifications, please! Otherwise, I'll take your word for it. Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u63	I just want to explain that everyone has to be responsible for their actions and it is good to be present to bear that responsibility.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u64	The procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u65	The presence during a roll call check and in general the provision of the quorum is the political act and the desire of each member. It is not just a statement of the Chairman of the Assembly to physically count whether there is anyone in the Chamber, or not someone in the Chamber... [[Voices from GERB: "Eee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u66	What's your procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u67	Besides... [[GERB's line.]] Please be polite. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Mr. Chairman, I'm asking you to take an attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u68	Keep order in the Chamber and respect the speaker.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u69	I would like to draw attention to the fact that I was not present in the Chamber during the roll call check, even though I am noted as present there. In this regard, I believe that this roll call check, Mr President, which has been carried out, is illegal, it does not correspond to the state of affairs! And from now on, all the decisions that this National Assembly will take in this session, today, I do not believe that they will be legal! So either conduct a roll call check like the people present here, or don't worry and don't be offended if someone appeals to your decisions today! Because, once again, your quorum is not legitimate at the moment the way they established it with this name check. Thank you. [[(Calling by the National Representative Plamen Tachev:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u70	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. You have the right to refer the matter to the Conference of Presidents accordingly. [[Noise, lines, screams.]] No yelling in the hall. But what I personally saw, as well as over 100 MPs, your body was in this room! [[Happy tidings.]] Your body I saw it myself! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u71	Another procedure in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u72	It's procedure again.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u73	One more procedure. Dear Mr. President, once again, I am explaining that presence or absence during a quorum is not a political decision. [[GERB lines.]] And what I want to give you once more attention to my body whether it was here or not, what you have seen is coming out of the room, which is a clear indication that I do not want to participate in this inspection, that I do not want to provide you with the quorum and that what you have done is an absolute fraud! That's what I want to tell you, and you can explain yourself after that.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u74	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u75	As for Radulov, yes, I have been! I'm a lieutenant colonel from the Reserve, I've served Bulgaria...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u76	Please don't engage in dialogue!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u77	...in the Bulgarian Military Intelligence and I have not changed my beliefs once, unlike you!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u78	Mr. Ermenkov, hold your emotions. You do not need to enter into a dialogue with the House.... to abuse as a speaker to whom the floor is given and to engage in disputes with your colleagues in the Chamber. [[Reply from OP.]] Yeah, we'll take turns in groups. Anyone here for a procedure? Mr. Mitev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u79	How did Michaud Mikov do the quorum?!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is the way I conduct myself. I would like to ask you to explain to all colleagues in this House what is really the process of naming checks and to distract the ignorance of some of the colleagues who declare it in some different way, such as establishing a desire to meet or unwillingness. The roll call check is counting the people who are present in the room. From the moment this census was announced, some of the colleagues from BSP and DPS, who were in the Chamber, could not be excluded because they were physically here. So the name check is legit, legitimate. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] I wish good luck to those who will challenge the decisions that the National Assembly will take today in the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u81	To me, Mr. Mitev. Thanks for the remark, it's justified, I accept it and I repent. [[Laughter from GERB and OP, lines.]] Mr. Hamid. Let's have some rotation. I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u82	Dear MPs, my body was here before the roll call started. After it began, after the list was submitted to the chairwoman, I had long left the House. So you can't write me down that I've been there before the inspection! Yeah, I was, I even spoke from here, I was, but before the inspection started. After she started it, I quit!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u83	I cannot accept your procedure and your remark to the leading sitting because I personally, and I am sure that my colleagues have seen that your body was actually here when your name was pronounced! Otherwise, how will the chairman remember your presence here when you're not here? [[Reply from MP Hamid Hamid.]] No, your body was here. You thought you might have been somewhere else, but your body was here and I saw it myself. [[Happy tidings.]] I beg you not to be petty in such disputes. Mr. Svilensky, please come in for a procedure, possibly in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u84	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Minister! That's your problem, Mr. Chairman. You're looking at the bodies. [[crowd cheering]] And there are no MPs to vote on. Is this how you will accept the budget by looking at people body, with this quorum you will go out to the Bulgarian citizens and say that you have accepted the budget?! And now I'm going to read you what Mr. Mitev says. The President doesn't count the MPs, the President isn't a censuser! It is the President who must legitimise the decisions of the National Assembly... to sign them in the end, not to count them. He's not... not to quote colleague Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u85	Which member?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u86	And I say: The call for a vote in connection with the upcoming vote may take place on its own initiative or only once in a single session at the request of a parliamentary group, as has happened, a check of the quorum by roll call, not, notice, colleagues, by roll call reading of the names of the Members of the National Assembly. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] And I ask Mrs Karayancheva: where was the list where Georgi Svilenski is the third in a row? Where was the list where Ivan Chenchev was fourth in a row? Where was the list where Krum Zarkov was fifth in a row? [[Extreme lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u87	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u88	Where was the list where Tasco Ermenkov was seventh in a row? Tell me, fellow Members!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u89	At the forty-second National Assembly!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u90	Yesterday you bought some MPs, gave them a curtsy.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u91	The procedure is for me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u92	Today you want to add 15 more people!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u93	Don't force me to take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u94	Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u95	The procedure is for me. Don't address the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u96	Well, to you, I'm talking to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u97	What I bought, tell it again.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u98	To address you with the microphone. [[It turns with the microphone with its hand. Happy tidings.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u99	I bought something, didn't I, yesterday?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u100	Mr. Chairman, is this how you want to talk to me so I can address you? [[(Radio.) Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u101	Mr. Minister, pay attention to the speaker that he may infect me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u102	I'm addressing you, but I'm talking to my colleagues because I respect them, I respect them, Mr. Chairman. This investigation you've done is illegal, unconstitutional! The parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria will refer to the Constitutional Court for the three budgets you will vote on today and will leave the state without a budget! This will be on your conscience, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u103	Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u104	Make an inspection as per the Rules of Procedure! You still have a chance to make amends... [[The President turns off the microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u105	I'm sorry. [[Reply of the speaker to the President.]] Well, you've finished. Release the stands, please. Release the stands. [[Reply of the speaker to the President.]] No, no, the point of your speech was clear enough. I would like to draw your attention to you in my right of explanation, less than two minutes, that there is no explicit way, however, in what order should they be... [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski: "There is, it is written! "]] You know very well that very often the check is carried out and backwards on the list back from the last letters of the alphabet. The way you're holding Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u106	My procedure, honourable Members, is in the lead. In fact, it is mentioned in the Rules how the roll call check is carried out. Whether backwards or forwards, the chairman announces how the roll call check is carried out. And here, notice, he has the right to volition, and he has the right to declare himself! Because next time you'll decide you don't even have to ask the MPs how they're going to vote! It is enough for your body to be here and for you to determine whether it is for you, against you or abstention! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]] Only one thing I do not understand, honourable Members: why is violating the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution such a celebration for you?! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u107	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. What you are quoting as Rules may be Rules of any other Parliament, I am sorry. There are no such texts in ours. Here you go, Mr. Angelov. [[National Representative Christian Vigenin wants the floor.]] Then I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u108	Mr. Chairman, I and other colleagues in this House are parliamentary secretaries of the Bulgarian Parliament. Several times it has been necessary for us to count a quorum at the request of a President in the previous term. Each of the parliamentary secretaries counted the sector concerned, whether the physical body is present inside, and each ensures that they have signed it, that there is a quorum! So this procedure, which was carried out by Ms. Karayancheva, is no different than what is being done. All who are in the Chamber can be counted according to the list of the letter "F" whether from the letter "A", whether from the letter "W" does not matter! The point is, they were inside the gym and that's legal! [[Applause from GERB and OP. A line from the National Representative Halil Letifov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u109	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Mr. Vigenin, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is good that Mrs. Karayancheva is here because the procedure is more to her, but practically to the President in the manner of conduct. I ask that my name be removed from the quorum that was established just now. It can be easily checked in the transcript that as soon as the list reached my name, Mrs. Karayancheva said: "Kristian Vigenin was here. That means I wasn't here at the time of the inspection. All colleagues whose name or post-reading in the transcript says: it was........................................ means that they were not here at the time of the inspection. So you decide whether it is not logical to do a new check, or you want with the definite proof of the transcript that will come out in a day or two, in the Constitutional Court to drop everything you think you will do today! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u111	Ms. Karayancheva's procedure. Mr. Chenchev, then you will get the happiness to express your procedure. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u112	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! I would like to clarify that, as soon as I announced a roll call, I quoted the names of colleagues who were in the Chamber, and they are duly reflected in the transcript. When I quoted the names of these colleagues, they were in the room in a hurry to come out the door. All the other colleagues on whom I read the names were in the Chamber as well as those on whom I had previously read them. Please refer to the transcript. And just one more time to read art. 52, para. 3: The President in connection with an upcoming vote may carry out, on his own initiative or only once, in one session at the request of the Parliamentary Group, a review of the quorum by roll-call reading the names of the Members of the National Assembly or by counting the Members of the National Assembly. And let anyone who remembers 2013, 2014 "The Forty-Second National Assembly, " remember exactly how the roll call checks were done at the Forty-second National Assembly. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Same as now!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u113	Please don't shout out of the hall, take the floor!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u114	This is a parliamentary practice that I strictly observe. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Karayancheva. Mr. Chenchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u116	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I haven't demonstrated my will that I want to participate in the roll call. I'm asking you to get me off that list.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u117	There is no such procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u118	Let the speaker speak. Speak, Mr. Chenchev, don't waste your seconds! Keep going!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u119	When my name was mentioned, I was already at the door. I don't know how many people saw me, but it's definitely not my will. Secondly, Mr. Chairman, here is the Health Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. Please call on him, because just before May he received instructions on what he should do, but please call him to refer to the RGI on the health status regarding the CIVID-19 of all MPs. [[Relations from the National Representative Daniela Daritkova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u120	Okay, recommendation in the manner of conduct. Mr. Popov, please come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u121	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I, too, as the previous Members of the National Assembly, are colleagues from both the DPS and from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria, I also state my desire to be taken out of reading because it is not reading, but from the announcement by the President of the National Assembly that I was in the Chamber. I do not dispute the claim that I was in the Chamber, but when reading the list itself, I was not in this Chamber when reading it. So reading the list is an obligation of the President of the National Assembly. That's how the roll call checks are done. It is clearly written in art. 52, para. 3 that the Quorum is established by name reading the names of the Members of the National Assembly. How did the Speaker of Parliament read so chaoticly here that you saw? On which list did you read the names of the MPs who were in the Chamber? We were in the gym yesterday, and the other day we were in the gym, count us off once and don't count us again! That's your logic! In addition, I am the Secretary of the National Assembly. Counting the MPs from the secretaries?! Such a census by the secretaries was not carried out. I declare from this tribune: none of the secretaries of the parliamentary groups have been assigned to count. And the chairman should have read from the list. When did she get that list, when did you read the list? When we were already outside the Chamber and we weren't in the Chamber! Because the quorum is counted by the Members of the National Assembly who are inside the Chamber when reading the list by the President of the National Assembly. That thing wasn't done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u122	Thank you, Mr. Popov. You are mistaken, you simply cannot know, but I guarantee you that the lists were placed in the lead session at least five minutes before this inspection was carried out, first. Secondly, your body was also in the gym and I personally saw it. If you wish, I can propose to the chairmen of the parliamentary groups on Wednesday at the Conference of Presidents, if you need to look at the cameras to see if you were inside during the reading. [[Heckling]] But you were inside! And finally, with regard to your belief that a census should be carried out by the secretaries. This is as an option and is added as a.. or........................................)............................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u123	What are you, that you always interpret? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u124	Mr. Nedyalkov, you're starting to keep an eye on yourself with your constant shouting from the hall. Please don't force me to take any other measures. Mr. Danchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u125	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I also wish my name to be crossed out and removed from the roll call list. During the reading of my name Mrs. Karayancheva, who was reading the list, stated very clearly and this can be seen on tape, as you said, Mr. Simeonov, said that Dimitar Danchev was not in the room, but he was here before that and she saw me. But in the end, when she read the entire list, Mrs. Karayancheva removed the name of Mr. Alexander Nenkov from that list. However, Alexander Nenkov was here during the registration with which today's meeting was opened. By the same logic as my name now appears on this list, the name of Mr. Alexander Nenkov should remain. If it is removed as Mrs. Karayancheva did, please take my name and all colleagues who were not in the Chamber during reading their names off this list.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u126	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Once again, I repeat my suggestion: on Wednesday, sit down, watch the cameras. One thing I can convince you is that there is no way to bring down the quorum to 121. There were too many people in the room and all the names that were read were in the room. Mr. Ebatine. We're taking turns.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u127	Honourable Members, Dear President of the Lord! In the same way, with similar arguments, I also state that if my name is included in the list of presence, I declare that I want it to be excluded. And I'll argue why. In each vote, each Member of the National Assembly, Members, whatever vote is concerned, shall express his will freely by voting for the President, the President of the European Union or the President of the European Union. Bringing down the roll call check only to a physical presence in the Chamber means that you agree to take away the free will of the Members of the National Assembly to declare their participation in this roll call check according to their free will. And taking away the freedom of will of the people's representative means nothing but the removal of fundamental democratic values. Moreover, when it comes to the withdrawal of the will of a people's representative, of a sovereign elected by the people! This is a retreat from the fundamental principles of democracy. And you do, notice, at the adoption of the basic law of the Republic for the year. There is no more important law than the Budget Act! Since the Budget Act is adopted with such a retreat from democratic values, I do not want to think whether in this case this law will have any moral value at all but other value. This law has no weight adopted in this way. Thank you and I insist that this attitude be corrected as a principle of working for the National Assembly. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u128	Thank you, Mr. Ebatine. You've exposed your view of the matter. I don't think you have any reason to claim that someone took your will. The will shall be expressed by voting No one has taken away your right to vote, to express your position, but this has nothing to do with the physical census of the people who are in this Chamber. Here you go, Mr. Vangelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u129	It's the way it's supposed to be. Dear Mr. Chairman, I ask you to make a comment to my colleague from the DPS and to explain to him that he is not a sovereign elected by the people and the people are the sovereign in the Republic of Bulgaria. [[(Applause and cheering by GERB and OP:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u130	Mr. Ebatine, I'm making a remark to you that you're not a sovereign. [[Laughter and excitement in GERB and OP. People's representatives from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS want the floor.]] Mr. Svilensky's been waiting a long time. Let's alternate groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u131	Mr. Chairman, first of all, I would also like to state my name, and my name has been read, to be deleted from the list of those present at the roll call check. My procedure with you, Mr. Chairman, on Wednesday will be too late to find that the quorum is 117. Then three budgets will be adopted, a procedure will be launched between first and second votes and it will be infinitely late, infinitely late then to cancel. And the likelihood of the quorum becoming much less then is even greater. I call on you to do a roll call check. If there are still 121 MPs, continue your work. If there are not 121 Members of the National Assembly when there is one. On Monday, on Tuesday, schedule an extraordinary meeting, ensure the quorum and the Bulgarian Parliament meet. Again I tell you, the work is going to corrupt the adoption of the state budget, referral to the Constitutional Court, cancellation of this budget and in 2021 Bulgaria to be without a budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u132	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. I cannot accept your recommendation in such a brutal and cynical way as to violate the Rules of Procedure by conducting another roll call check. I also cannot in any way perform self-government by crossing you off the list after you were in the room. I can't do that kind of self-government. I'm sorry. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] Mr. Chakarov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In turn, honourable Members, I would like to be excluded from this list in view of the fact that I was not in the Chamber during the name check itself. The fact that I have been noticed when we leave the Chamber is no reason to appear on the list of today's roll call checks. The name check and presence is political volition and political act. I haven't been to the gym, and I'm saying I don't want to be on that list with the other colleagues. The arguments were presented very thoroughly. I mean, registration would be a novelty. The Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly state very clearly how the roll call check is carried out. It shall be carried out by reading the name of the Member of the National Assembly, confirming by him that he is in the Chamber or Parliamentary Secretaries to report... [[Heckling]] Let's see, this may happen, but let the parliamentary secretaries themselves from each parliamentary group represent who was present, who was not present. We have not been present in this Chamber, so it is justified that Mr. Svilenski's proposal, I also share it with me to do a new roll call check and to see the real quorum and on this basis continue the meeting because the most important law of the state for the current year will be considered. So the most important laws must have legitimacy and have the sufficient quorum.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. You're also calling me to break the rules. [[Heckling]] It is you who have chosen me to stand in this responsible position now that you insist that I break the rules! [[Heckling]] No, I can't! [[Noise and lines.]] I can't accept that! Any other groups? Just BSP. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u135	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister of Health, Mr. Chairman! We do not ask you to violate the Rules of Procedure, we ask you to understand it, the Rules and the Constitution. There are different forms for the establishment of the quorum for a normal registration or a name. The purpose of the name registration is not a game of cat and mouse, or onion bony, or small tricks. The purpose of the name registration is each MP with his name, becoming from place to place and asking here to take responsibility... [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u136	Please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u137	...for what's happening in this room. With the name registration here today, every MP should have said, do I agree with the fact that a budget is being put in without elementary preparation from today to tomorrow? Do I agree with the fact that the budget is being discussed in such a way, especially a budget which, in your words, is extremely important? Do I agree with the way this is happening? Am I going to stay in history and in shorthands like the one who made this possible? This is the roll call check, and we from BSP to all of you are telling you: "No, because being here means being accomplices, and we are not, understand it! [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) Noise and lines by GERB.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u138	Please remain silent, as well as respect for those who are entitled to speak out of this high tribune! Mr. Zarkov presented his interpretation of the Rules, has his right. I don't accept it. The next person willing to do the procedure? Here you are, Mrs. Lecheva, then Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u139	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I think that everyone in this House is aware that democracy is a string of procedures and that every procedure has its own clear meaning and meaning. We have made it very clear that we will not maintain the quorum in this National Assembly for any other reason, but because this majority, which claims to be a majority, has already fallen apart and you want to prove in any way that there is such a majority, buying MPs, buying consciences and making a variety of apes to prove that...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u140	Excuse me! However, let the procedure be to me, not to the House.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u141	...you have a majority. Now, Mr President, we have said very clearly that we are not involved in the formation of this quorum and that what you are doing is an absolute circus. But my question to you, Mr. Chairman, who said it, a colleague of ours, is: how many are the quarantined MPs here in the Chamber who participated in the census in the roll call? And let the Minister say this information, if we have to give him a break to get the information out of the RZI. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Lecheva. You're putting me on too hard a task, I can't do it. On the other hand, I will still express my position that this majority is not falling apart, but unfortunately, we are in some difficult period for the country and for the world in a serious epidemic. As it goes, the entire Assembly may soon fall apart. [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Not the majority. Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u143	Dear Mr. Chairman! I'm taking a procedure not to argue with you under the roll call procedure, but because you know perfectly well that you didn't follow the procedure. I have nothing to remind you of anything you know. I take the procedure to state that if my name was in the room because of my body, it was included in the roll call list, to remove it from the list and to record this in the protocol very clearly my will. [[Laughter at GERB]] The second in which I take the floor, Mr President, is because the Minister of Health is in the Chamber, he is a prominent apologist of compliance with the rules, including several times here he called the people's representation for masks, for other things, so that there are no misunderstandings, because we are working transparently, please ask him to say: since the morning all who have registered in the Chamber at the beginning of the registration of the National Assembly, whether there are people under any prohibition to attend? [[Comments from GERB and OP.]] I don't need to name names. Names are 122, Mr. Chairman. 122 are the names! Introduce them to the Minister and he will say against them do these people have any ban in connection with the coronavirus.....................is it self-insulate, isolation, quarantine and all others? Have they had the right to be present, and what punishment will be imposed on these people? This is my procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u144	Okay, Mr. Gokov. Still, this procedure is not for me. You set some inexhaustible requirements and tasks, you include the Minister of Health, which has nothing to do with our dispute here. If you want, I can ask him to come out until you're done, because there's a chain of lists to speak in procedure. He has nothing to do with this. [[(Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.) Noise and lines by GERB.)]] Don't shout out of the hall, please! [[(Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.) Noise and lines by GERB.)]] Please, if you have anything, or on the stand come and tell me, don't scream, because I can't hear anything! Besides, you're wearing a mask, and thank God you're wearing a mask, that you weren't wearing a mask until recently. Mr. Kasabov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u145	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u146	You have 23 seconds eaten.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u147	The big question that we are debating right now, do we have a quorum or do we not have a quorum? With gentlemen who are bodies, or suits without bodies, or talking suits, we have a quorum. As soon as we announce a check, they'll disappear again, and what will be there? The spirits that are here somewhere will roam. Look, it's all endlessly naughty, it's very unpleasant and simple. It is about the budget, and they have no desire to increase the money of the socially weak, of pensions, of the people, of the servants, because to them Bulgaria is nothing, for them only their party matters. You're wasting your time. And they don't do anything else, they just eat the meaning of what we're all here for. So when you talk about bodies, let's specify bodies in suits or suits without bodies, or costumes talking that are currently speaking. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u148	Thank you, Mr. Kasabov. Once again, I call for discipline and order in this House! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I can't see who's yelling because you're all wearing masks. Mr. Gazhev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u149	Dear Mr. Chairman, I am doing a procedure in the manner of conduct. After all, do I remind you of what we started from? The roll-call procedure shall be a verification of the quorum. What does the Bulgarian interpretation dictionary say about the word "quorum"! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This is the least mandatory number of attendees who are present in the meeting where his decisions are legal. "This means a quorum. Present! It's not a volition, it's a presence. So the fact that some colleagues feel a bit present as Schrödinger's cat are both inside, and are not, I'm sorry. Let us, however, note what.. present is saying. By the way, Mr President, is there somewhere in the Rules of Procedure an explicit provision on how to read the names that the President says?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u150	I won't. I already told you. I don't understand what the procedure is for me right now?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u151	It is now that we must now stop the ongoing marathon of procedures in the manner of conduct and explain that...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u152	Offer me a way to do it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u153	...in the end, it's about presence, not a volition, what many of our colleagues here have tried to say. A presence, and it's documented that they were present when their names were given. The second time my name was also read several times, by the way, during the procedure. Separately, I would like to ask, rather to supplement the wishes of my fellow Members, for verification at the RZI: let's check in fact all MPs who have entered the National Assembly building today, whether there are any with a prescription for quarantine? I'd like to see and ask... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yesterday, also last week. Because I would like to remind everyone that last Friday at this time of the stands Mrs. Nino was reading a statement, and it also turned out that she was most likely waiting for the PSR test to come out. So she had doubts that she was sick and put the entire National Assembly at risk. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] Let's not forget that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u154	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. I beg you and you, as well as the colleagues who will then speak, let me do my particular work, because we spend too much time on the same procedure. Now I see Mr. Svilenski, third time he raises his hand, same procedure again. Well, how many times? Excuse me, but there must be some measure of all this! We all know that these 11 people who were read by the President Ms. Karayancheva were in the Chamber because we all saw them. They were inside. At the moment, fellow Members of the BSP, you are trying to play a vaudeville, in a manner of speaking: grab the bodies [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] But you were here, you were here! Someone who hasn't taken the procedure, please. Mr. Kostadinov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u155	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My procedure is in the way of leading you, and also in the direction of the National Assembly. Please, fellow Members, accept my apologies, as at the time of the registration for presence or quorum, I was with a medical examiner, I was in hospital for an examination. It's nothing serious. This can be verified with the time of entry and exit. I'm saying this because if I see my name on the attendance list, if I'm there...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u156	Mr. Kostadinov, what is your procedure towards me? Did I put your name on the list? I won't write it, don't worry!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u157	That's right! Thank you. In the manner of conduct, I would like to say the following. I am out of doubt, colleagues, that nearly a week ago.. especially yesterday after Mr. Hristov made a rude violation of the Rules, today he was surpassed by Mrs. Karayancheva. In the same direction you are going, Mr. Chairman, to remain in the history of this National Assembly as a man who violates the Rules of Procedure. I am out of doubt, colleagues, that in this environment we will see even uglier and less deserving paintings in your attempt to achieve something that I do not know what it is. Because you say it's not a procedure, I'm firmly convinced that the memories today of the bodies, the surveillance and the mention of who saw what body, attest to the presence. It's done through a mechanism... [[Replications from OP.]] You've already spoken. I can see you, even though you're wearing a mask, Mr. Mitev, I can hear you well, but this is not the place.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u158	Don't engage in dialogue. The procedure is for me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u159	The procedure is as follows within the meaning of what the legislator has foreseen: after reading the name of the representative elected by the Bulgarian citizens by means of a sign of the body, as you say, raise your hand, voice or stand up [[GERB noise and lines]] , to verify that he is here. And not the bodies in conclusion, Mr. Chairman, vote. Consciousness votes, and there's no such thing here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u160	Thank you. You have your interpretation of the Rules. [[GERB lines: "Will you not stop them? "]] Yeah, I do. [[(Comments from GERB: You do not do anything!]] Let's alternate groups. Are there procedures on the right? I won't. Mr. Popov, you've already had a statement on this procedure. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Now, how do we interpret the Rules? You have spoken in the manner of conduct. [[Reply from MP Philip Popov.]] There is no more healthy meaning with all these speeches. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is clearly stated in the Rules that on procedural matters the word is given immediately and there are no restrictions in the number of procedures of each Member of the National Assembly. [[(Reply from GERB:]] My procedure is also in the manner of conduct. Dear Mr. Chairman, in our Constitution, in art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 2 It is clearly written that the MPs act on the basis of the Constitution and the laws in accordance with their conscience and convictions. Conscience and belief are expressed through volitions, whether by concluding actions, as the colleague said: raising your hand, declaring your will. We made it clear, more than ten MPs from the Bulgarian National Assembly (BSP) and from the DPS, that our will was not to participate in the roll call check, so we came out when it was announced. However, you have read some of the names you have managed to see without a list. Therefore, given the will of the Members of the National Assembly, which is clearly written in the Constitution, to terminate the meeting because you do not have a quorum. You have announced that the quorum is 130. More than ten MPs have clearly and categorically stated that they do not wish to be on this list, that is, you do not have a definite quorum. Follow the Constitution, follow the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly and respect the will of every MP elected, as you say, by the sovereign. Here the body is not important, as you say, to the MP, here its mental abilities are important, that is, its volition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u162	I think this is a re-vote, but you have the right to your own opinion. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Colleagues, this is already crossing borders. You know what I suggest, Mr. Svilensky? Why don't you stand here and after the two minutes are up, raise your hand again and take two more minutes? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I give the floor to Mrs. Jaffer for procedure. [[The Minister of Health spoke to the Member of the National Assembly.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u163	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today, at least two members of our Rules of Procedure have been violated. 52, para. Art. 3 and Art. 79.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u164	Mr. Minister, stop talking or I'll have you removed from this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u165	Therefore, after the declaration of more than ten MPs that they have not participated in the roll call check and have not stated their will to be numbered, this meeting appears to be illegal and there is no quorum. Let us not forget that, even when voting, there are not three options to vote for.................................................................................................. There is a possibility that the people's representative, if he decides not to participate in the vote, so as to interpret the right of the people's representative, all depends on his volition. There's no quorum. Please consider options so that the sitting is legitimate, because at this point it is not.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u166	Thank you, Mrs. Jaffer. Mr. Svilensky, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to pay attention to you as if you're starting to overdo it, and we're going to have to resort to other measures then. [[Radio.]] Same procedure five times, sorry, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u167	It's okay. Well, that's what the rules say, and I follow it. It's nice to have you read it, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u168	The rules are for the work of the National Assembly, not for sabotaging the work. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u169	You have no right, Mr. Chairman, to remove the minister from this Chamber. With all your desire that you probably have, you can't do it. He can be present at any time and speak at any time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u170	I can remove anyone who violates the order in this room, including you, and I've told you that already.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u171	I didn't break order.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u172	Here you go. I'll compensate you for 25 seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u173	Mr. Chairman, first of all, please ask the Minister to provide a reference to really quarantined or contact persons of MPs. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Whether he has a right or not, he will judge the minister, he has all the responsibility. All of Bulgaria is watching him now! All Bulgaria is waiting for the solution of the problem. [[Noise and lines.]] Like they were self-conscious about masks, like... [[Reply by National Representative Spas Gurnevski.]] Gurnevsky!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u174	Please don't scream from the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u175	Gurnevsky, come here and talk, Gurnevsky!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u176	Don't talk to him, talk to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u177	Come here and talk, don't shout in the back!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u178	Mr. Svilensky, Mr. Svilensky, to the procedure, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u179	On behalf of the parliamentary group, we want a 30-minute recess and the Minister to provide a reference to the state of the MPs and contact persons they probably have, so we need to know how the National Assembly works. In addition to these 117 members of parliament who have been registered, the others who are contesting the quorum work in this building more than 1000 people who are standing and watching now what is happening in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u180	On the first proposal, you are given consent, on the second proposal, no. Thirty-minute break. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u181	We're continuing the hearing. Is there anyone to present the bill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 5. According to § 4, there is a proposal from the MPs Krasimir Tsipov, Plamen Nunev and Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 4 be rejected. Proposal from the MPs Krasimir Tsipov, Plamen Nunev and Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 6: ........................................................... In the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) in the first sentence, the words shall expire within three months of the cancellation of an extraordinary declaration shall be replaced by an expiry date during a declared emergency situation or within 9 months of the cancellation of the emergency; (b) in the second sentence, the words "in a period of up to three months' shall be replaced by "in a time of declared emergency', or within 9 months, after the word "visa' shall be added "for long-term residence under art. 15, para. The following shall be added to the table in Annex II to this Regulation: 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) A new para shall be created. 14: The term referred to in paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. 13 to conduct initial identification, identification and follow-up administrative measures shall be extended by the period during which the foreigner was placed in isolation, hospital treatment or quarantine. (b) the current para. 14 becomes para. 15. Proposal from the MPs Krasimir Tsipov, Plamen Nunev and Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 7: .................................................... The time limits for regular general meetings in 2021 under the Law on Law of Law, the Law on Notary and Notary Activities and the Law on Private Judicial Contractors shall be extended by three months. Proposal from the MPs Krasimir Tsipov, Plamen Nunev and Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 8: ................................................................................... Paragraph 3 shall enter into force on 31 August 2020, and Paragraph 4 shall apply. 1 points (a) and (b) and (c) shall enter into force from 31 October 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u183	Are there any statements on the read paragraphs 3 to 8?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u184	A statement, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u185	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! With colleagues Nunev and Alexandrova, we submitted a proposal for a new paragraph with which the time limits for holding regular general meetings in 2021 under the Law on Law of Law, Law of Law, Notary and Notary Activities and the Law on Private Judicial Contractors should be extended by three months. Before submitting this proposal, we received an informal request from the Chamber of Private Judicial Contractors, the Notary Chamber and the Supreme Judicial Council. We tabled this proposal by insisting that we receive opinions from both chambers and the Council, respectively, in support of this informal request. Since opinions came from the Notary Chamber and from the Chamber of Private Judicial Contractors, but until the submission of the Second Voting Report yesterday in the Chamber of the National Assembly did not come forward, I will allow myself, Mr. President, to make an amendment proposal, namely from § 7 We understand that there is such a problem and we declare readiness, if we are called upon, to make an adjustment in this paragraph if it is voted in this way, but without having a formal opinion from the Supreme Council of Law, I consider it necessary to make this editorial amendment and, accordingly, the words of the Lawyer's Lawyer's Lawyer's Lawyer's Lawyer's Lawyer's Lawyer's Lawsuit dropped out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u187	I couldn't understand the whole paragraph?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u188	No. In § 7, my editorial proposal is: the words...................................................................................................... The time limits for regular general meetings in 2021 under the Law on Notaries and Notary Activities and the Law on Private Judicial Contractors are extended by three months.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u189	Thank you. Any other statements referred to in paragraphs 3 to 8 by importer? There aren't any. First, we vote on Mr. Tsypov's editorial proposal in § 7 to drop the expression "The Law of Law." Vote 85 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 3. The amendment to § 7 has been accepted. I shall put to the vote § 3, which shall become § 5; the rejection of § 4; the new § 6 as amended by the Commission; § 7 with the new version after the correction; and § 8 Vote 87 MPs: 84, none, abstention 3. In the event of enviable unanimity, the Law has been passed. Moving on to: THE LAW FOR THE BUDGET OF NATIONAL HEALTH AND HEALTH CASE 2021 For the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, I give the floor to Mrs. Maria Ilieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I introduce my colleagues to the Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, I am making a procedure for admission in the hall of Mrs. Zheny Nacheva, Deputy Minister of Health and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund, and Professor Dr. Petko Salchev, Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u191	We are voting for admission in the hall of Mrs. Women Nacheva and Mr. Petko Salchev. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. I ask the guests to take their seats in their designated chairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on the Draft Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2021, No 002-01-61, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020. At its meeting on 5 November 2020, the Budget and Finance Committee discussed the above-mentioned bill. The meeting was attended by: from the Ministry of Finance Kiril Ananiev Minister, from the Ministry of Health Prof. Dr. Kostadin Angelov Minister, Mrs. Zheny Nacheva Deputy Minister and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund, Professor Dr. Petko Salchev Manager of the National Health Insurance Fund, representatives of the word and patient organizations. The bill was presented by Professor Dr. Kostadin Angelov. The main objective of the Bill is to provide affordable, quality and timely medical assistance to health insured persons and equal access to medical institutions eligible for contracts with the National Health Insurance Fund so that they can provide professional and high-level medical and dental activities. For this purpose, the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2021 provides for 338,3 million. lv. more on expenditure and transfers (everything) compared to 2020 The main indicators of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020 are the following: I. Revenues and transfers - all: In the revenue section of the budget for 2021, total revenue and transfers of 338,3 million are expected to take place. lv. More than 2020. Health insurance revenues are proposed to be 340,2 million. lv. more than 2020 Transfers from the Ministry of Health to finance the costs under the Health Act totalled 83,4 million. lv. for 2021, i.e. the same amount as for 2020 II. Expenditures and transfers: Total costs and transfers for 2021 are by 338,3 million. lv. more than the amount for 2020 The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, of which 4 930.4 million are offered for current expenditure. BGN, with this amount being greater by 333,6 million. lv. of the same costs for 2021; for the acquisition of non-financial assets for 2021, 5,0 million are planned. BGN as much as it is in 2020. From the amount of current expenditure 4 930.4 million. lv. the most relative share is the cost of health insurance payments, which for 2021 are estimated at an amount of 470.3 million. BGN, or more by 316,4 million lv. under the 2020 law. These funds shall be allocated as follows: 1. for primary outpatient medical care with 22.7 million. lv. more than 2020 2. for specialized outpatient medical care, including for complex dispensary/ambulatory surveillance with 18.5 million. lv. more than 2020 3. for dental aid 17.6 million lv. more than 2020; 4. for medical-diagnostic activity 6.6 million lv. more than 2020 5. for medicinal products, medical devices and dietary foods for special medical purposes for home treatment in the territory of the country and for medicinal products for the treatment of malignancy and medicinal products for life-threatening bleeding and emergency surgery in patients with congenital coagulopathy included in the package of health activities guaranteed by the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund and applied under the conditions of hospital care, which the National Health Insurance Fund pays outside the value of the medical services provided by 88.2 million. lv. more than 2020 6. for medical devices applied in hospital medical care 6.0 million lv. From 2020 7. for hospital medical care 141.9 million. lv. more than 2020 8. for other health insurance payments is available with 14.9 million. lv. more than 2020, including the entire amount is for medical assistance, provided in accordance with the rules for coordination of social security systems. The budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2021 proposed staff costs of 56 million. lv. This amount is greater than the amount of staff expenditure for 2020 by 8.8 million. lv. For 2021, payments on account of the funds from the transfer to the Ministry of Health under para. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid granted by the Region is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, i.e. remain at the same level compared to 2020. This amount is intended to be spent on: 1. medicinal products and activities related to their application under art. 82, para. 2, p. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. more than 2020 2. activities for health uninsured persons 2.1 million The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. 3. activities for health-insecure women under art. 82, para. 1, t. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. 4 amounts per art. 37, para. In this context, the Commission considers that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, repair and maintenance of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and repair of 5. activities related to the treatment of persons up to the age of 18 under art. 82, para. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of 6. activities related to the treatment of persons over 18 years of age under art. 82, para. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. 7. medical devices, aids, gadgets and facilities for people with disabilities outside the scope of compulsory health insurance 38.0 million. lv. The budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2021 is prepared in the current compulsory health insurance contribution of 8 percent. The draft budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020 provides for a balanced budgetary balance. A change is proposed which provides for the suspension of payment by means of a transfer of funds to the National Revenue Agency, with the planned funds being increased in 2021. In addition, amendments to the Health Act, the Health Insurance Act, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, the Act on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, related to the regulation of medicinal products and medical devices paid with public funds are proposed. After the discussion, a vote was held which ended with the following results:....................... 10 MPs............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budgets and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Budget Bill for the National Health Insurance Fund for 2021, No 002-01-61, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u193	Thank you, Mrs. Ilieva. The Committee on Health Mrs. Daritkova, if you please in summary, because your report is quite long.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u194	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a draft budget for the National Health Insurance Fund No 002-01-61, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020. At a joint meeting of the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and the Committee on Health, held on 5 November 2020, a draft budget for National Health Insurance for 2021 was reviewed and discussed, No 002-01-61, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020. The draft and the reasons for the bill were presented by the Minister of Health Dr. Kostadin Angelov, who introduced the MPs to the main financial parameters set out in the draft budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2021. Prof. Angelov stressed that in 2021 the funds for health insurance payments for primary outpatient medical care (PMP) are increased, specialized outpatient medical care (SRM), medical diagnostic activity (MID), hospital medical care (BMP), dental care (DP) and medicinal products, medical devices and dietary foods for special medical purposes. The reserve, including for unforeseen and urgent expenses, according to art. 26, para. 1 of the Health Insurance Act is three percent of the collected income from health insurance contributions and transfers for health insurance from other budgets and is amounting to 149 429 200 BGN. The Bill proposes amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act establishing a legal basis for regional managers to organise and coordinate the implementation and control of the introduced anti-epidemic measures under art. 63, para. 4 and 7 and art. 63a, para. 1 and 2 and the measures referred to in Article 2. 63b, para. 1 in the territory of the area concerned, providing for them to be able to order actions by the local authorities and local administration, the territorial units of the central administration, the natural and legal persons in the area. In this way, the participation of regional governors and local authorities in the activities of the implementation of anti-epidemic measures in support of health authorities, citizens and health institutions and in order to mobilise the overall capacity of all authorities on the ground in combating the relevant infectious diseases in the event of an exceptional epidemic situation and other crisis situations is regulated. The necessary conditions shall also be established for the implementation of the TELK electronic system, providing that the certified person and/or his legal representatives/authorities are entitled to access health information in the information database. In this way, it is intended to facilitate the procedure for persons subject to medical expertise by enabling it to be carried out electronically and by providing access to personal health information in the database, they can exercise control over it, as well as the overall process of their individual medical expertise. The proposed changes to the Health Insurance Act provide that the medicinal products applied in hospital medical care, which are paid outside the value of the medical services provided, are paid by the National Health Insurance Fund at the lower value between the agreements agreed in the framework agreements concluded by the Minister of Health as a Central Purchase Authority in the sector.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. It is explicitly stated that the National Health Insurance Fund cannot pay the performers of hospital medical care and the holders of a retail authorisation for the delivered medicinal products value which is higher than the maximum value fixed for public payment under the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine and the Health Insurance Act. It is proposed from 2021. The National Health Insurance Fund to suspend the payment of the National Revenue Agency for a service fee for the collection of health insurance contributions. An extension of the period for the annual conclusion of contracts between the National Health Insurance Fund and the holders of marketing authorisations and their authorised representatives for the application of medicinal products and the costs of the National Health Insurance Fund to them of a mechanism ensuring predictability and sustainability of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund is envisaged. The aim is to ensure optimal technological time and ensure the conclusion of contracts within a statutory period in order not to apply the norm under which medicinal products for which contracts have not been concluded by 1 March are not paid by the National Health Insurance Fund. With regard to medical devices fully paid under hospital medical care, the introduction of a mechanism ensuring predictability and sustainability of the NHIF budget is proposed, which will be adopted annually by 15 January of the current financial year by a decision of the NHIF Supervisory Board. The mechanism will be applied in the event of an excess of the costs of the NHIF for those medical devices in relation to the funds provided for in the NHIF Budget Act for the relevant year. The amendments and additions to the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine suggest a change to the administrative authority which will generate a unique national number for the identification of each medicinal product in the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as deadlines for publication of a register with national numbers. This power is entrusted to the National Council for Prices and Reimbursement of Medicinal Products, as it already has an extremely well-functioning information system that can relatively quickly be upgraded for the purposes of the national number. The amendments to the Law result from the need to generate and maintain a national code to be carried out by one state body to ensure unique identification of medicinal products to final packaging level and to maintain a structured database in machine-readable format for the purpose of achieving the interoperability of health information systems. The rules for the payment of medicinal products are also optimized in order to better predict the amount of expenditure for medicinal products paid with funds from the budget of the Ministry of Health. Optimizing public spending for the medicinal products concerned will enable a larger number of individuals to have access to the medicinal products needed for their treatment. The proposed additions to the Medical Institutions Act provide that, in the event of a declared emergency or exceptional epidemic situation, the directors of regional health inspections, in agreement with the director of the regional health insurance funds concerned, may order temporary measures to hospital care establishments, irrespective of their authorisations for medical activities issued under the Law on Hospitals. The measures may include the definition of hospital structures and the number of hospital beds for the treatment of infectious diseases within the total number of beds defined in the contract of the hospital hospital with the NHIF, subject to the relevant diagnostic and medical algorithm. The establishment of a legal basis, if necessary, to introduce a specific organisation of the provided hospital medical care is in order to ensure access to hospital treatment for all Bulgarian citizens in need. The opinion of the Confederation of Labour "Supporta" was presented by Mrs. Vanya Grigorova, expressing support for the dropping of the fee, which NHIF pays to the National Revenue Agency for the collection of health insurance contributions and for the intended opportunity for the manager of the NHIF to set a new amount of the individual basic monthly salaries of the employees in the administration once. The representative of the Bulgarian Association of Dentists informed the MPs that for another year in the budget of NHIF health insurance payments for dental aid guarantee the payment of the clinical stage of recovery activities of the chewing machine, but not at the laboratory stage. The written opinion of the Bulgarian Medical Union objects to the financial framework laid down in the part of health insurance payments for primary and specialized outpatient medical care, medical diagnostic activity and hospital care. It is stressed that the budget of the NHIF should provide accessible, quality and timely medical assistance to health insured persons and, in order to meet these objectives, the word organization proposes to increase the funds for 2021 by 15 289 100 BGN. for PIMP, with 22 471,000 BGN. for the SIMP, with 16 400,000 leva. for the IDA and 58 140 500 leva. for hospital care. With regard to the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Draft The Bulgarian Medical Union proposes in § 1 to create a legal opportunity for the NHIF to pay the medical devices included in the list under art. 13, para. 2, p. 2 of Ordinance No 10 of 2009 on the conditions, arrangements, mechanism and criteria for payment by the National Health Insurance Fund for medicinal products, medical devices and dietary foods for special medical purposes, negotiating concessions and reimbursement of excess funds in the application of a mechanism ensuring predictability and sustainability of the NHIF budget, which are applied in carrying out reported but outstanding activities in hospital medical care. This proposal is dictated by the fact that in many cases, in the event of non-payment of hospital care activities, due to the exceeding of the monthly values fixed to the medical establishment, the corresponding medical devices in the cases where they are paid by the NHIF outside the value of the medical services rendered are not paid. The Bulgarian Hospital Association expresses principle support for the proposed bill by stating that the additions to the Law on Hospitals should be seriously reconsidered because the distribution of patients with coronavirus in all hospital care facilities would significantly increase the risk of spreading the disease to both medical professionals and other patients. The proposals on the specific texts of the proposed provisions are set out in detail in the written opinion of the Association, expressing hope that they will be discussed and adopted between the first and second votes of the Bill. The written opinion of the Association of Research Pharmaceuticals in Bulgaria notes that there is a total underfinancing of BGN 76 000 000 000. for health insurance payments under art. 1, para. 2 rows 1.1.3.5.1.1 and 1.1.3.5.2. In these two groups of medicinal products, the correction coefficient of the mechanism ensuring predictability and sustainability of the NHIF budget significantly exceeds 1, which means that holders of marketing authorisations return more to the NHIF than is the increase of the reported costs of NHIF for their products supplied, which would result in the formation of an effective delivery price for certain products, which is negative, respectively, to an economic impossibility to provide these medicinal products in Bulgaria. The Association strongly objects to those offered by § 20, t. 7 Supplements to the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine and sets as a precedent in the Bulgarian legislation the introduction by law of a fixed percentage reduction at the tender price of a particular medicinal product compared to the price established in the Positive Drug List, which is already the lowest against 10 reference countries. It is pointed out that sustainable practice of countries in the European Union in international price comparison is to take legal price reductions into account when calculating prices in the countries used for comparison. If the proposal is accepted and applied, the 10% reduction will quickly have a direct impact on the price of the same medicinal product in the countries that refer to Bulgaria and through them indirectly also in the prices of most countries in the European Union and worldwide. It should be borne in mind that the new lower price will become a reference for Bulgaria and a new 10% reduction will follow. In conclusion, it is noted that the security of drug supply in Bulgaria largely depends on ensuring legal certainty and predictability, which enables pharmaceutical companies to plan their activities in the country and to fulfil their obligations to meet the health needs of Bulgarian citizens. The written opinion of the Bulgarian generic pharmaceutical association states that the intended remedies for medicinal products for home treatment of mass social and significant diseases will not guarantee the Bulgarian citizens the necessary treatment and the additional pressure on the generic industry since the introduction in 2020 of the mechanism for predictability and sustainability of the budget of NHIF under art. 45, para. 29 of the Health Insurance Act will result in the withdrawal of a number of medicinal products from the Positive Drug List. In the context of the above, the Association proposes between the first and second votes of the Bill to take legislative changes to exclude them from the scope of the mechanism under art. 45, para. 29 of the Health Insurance Act, generic medicinal products and the intended means of medicinal products for home treatment should be increased by a minimum of 10 million. lv. In conclusion, it is stressed that if the proposed measures are not taken, prerequisites will be created for the inability to maintain continuity in the provision of medicinal products for mass social diseases, especially in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic. During the discussion, the members of the Committee on Health discussed the financial parameters proposed in the Draft and raised specific questions regarding the possibility for the NHIF to ensure the provision of affordable and quality medical assistance to all health-insured Bulgarian citizens within the framework of the proposed budget for 2021, especially in the context of the growing pandemic of COVID-19. They stressed that increasing the financial resource in itself will not lead to a significant change in the functioning of our health insurance system without the creation of mechanisms for adequate distribution and spending of the funds from the National Health Insurance Fund budget. It was stressed that between the first and second votes of the Bill, the main problems should be discussed and the opportunities for their resolution for the benefit of all Bulgarian citizens and those involved in the healthcare system should be sought. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the draft budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2021, No 002-01-61, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u195	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. I open the debates on the Draft Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2021. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Anastasova and I had a conversation just over an hour ago with the Minister of Health, we received instructions from him to give him a letter which, either through you or personally, if you will allow, a letter asking Mr. Minister about the health status of the MPs, the quarantined...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u197	The procedure I can't figure out what it is to me?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u198	Through you or...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u199	No, it won't work with me. There's no such thing in the Rules of Procedure... What's the procedure for me? You could have made a briefing about that.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u200	I will give it to him, moreover, that the Prime Minister is a judge to respect uniform standards for all positions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u201	I'm warning you twice to speak under procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u202	So, here, I will deliver the letter to Mr. Minister. [[(Comments from GERB: You have no right!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u203	Let's move on to the substance of the bill under consideration. Are there any speeches? And you procedure? The way you're leading it?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u204	No, procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u205	I can't take your word for it?! What kind of procedures do you do to me all the time?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u206	Mr. Chairman, please don't make a comment to me! My procedure is to cut time. Mr. Chairman, please put to the vote on the grounds of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of our Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shortening the period of written proposals between the first and second votes to four days for the Public Finance Act, with a signature 002-01-54, adopted on the first vote on 5 November 2020. My procedure is to be shortened to four days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u207	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Does anyone have a second opinion? I can't see. I put to the vote the procedure for reducing the period between the first and second reading of the Public Finance Act to four days. They voted 83 MPs: 78, against 4, abstention 1. The proposal for a reduction of the deadline has been adopted. We're back on the agenda. Are there any statements on the budget bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2021? Mr. Popovski, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u208	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm sorry the opposition isn't on this very important budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u209	Don't be so sorry! [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u210	Am I sorry?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u211	Don't get too upset. Get to the point!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u212	I would like to say to colleagues who are not members of the Health Commission that this is a really good budget, a possible budget, a predictable budget to the current situation, at the moment. At 8% of the health contribution to the Bulgarian legislation at present, we are for the first time accumulating the sum of just over 5 billion. BGN, which will be the budget for 2021. So at present we have already 726 BGN. for a Bulgarian citizen for one calendar year, recalculated to the 7 million Bulgarian citizens. When we started this term, this amount was just over BGN 500. As far as the drugs are concerned, I've said it in my earlier statements, and everywhere I go here we have a slightly more reduced percentage common to the drugs that move 1 billion. 330 million, which is about 27% of the total budget. In normal Europe medicines are between 15 and 20%, but we have sometimes exceeded even 30%, so these 27% for medicines is a decent option at present. My appeal to the Minister and to the management of the National Health Insurance Fund is to closely monitor how this money is spent, because every year specifically oncolleges seriously exceed this budget set for them, that is, the main expenditure in medicines is oncolleges. Another important thing that I would like to address to my colleagues. The situation we are in at the moment is provided for by two paragraphs. First, we have 149, nearly 150 million reserves of the Cashier for whatever it is, will be decided by Oversight during the year. And a buffer from the big budget that we haven't heard yet, we'll hear it in a little while when we discuss the big budget. This buffer is serious, it is 600 million, which can be used under the conditions of the pandemic at present. You know that for several days the statistics on Bulgaria are very worrying. In neighbouring Greece with more than 10 million population, one third more than ours, there are 2600 infected per day, and we have an average of 4,000 per day. You can imagine how much more disturbing we are by this indicator than Greece itself.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u213	Please be quiet in the hall. Mr. Mihov, you've permanently disrupted the order of the court. Don't force me to take disciplinary action against you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u214	I would like to draw attention to both the Minister and Mrs. Nacheva, as Chairman of Supervision, the path "kovid" which is currently BGN 1200, perhaps very soon with the new framework contract will need to be increased. I give out some numbers from the hospital in my constituency, which has already 7 - 8 months of experience in the treatment of these patients: one patient is averaged between 2 - 3 thousand. BGN, and the path is BGN 1200. We also have a record holder whose treatment reflects at £6,200. To a patient! But I'm saying it's a record of some kind. Average between 2 and 3,000. lv. It costs one such patient, first because these patients are lying for many days, they need expensive treatment, especially if they need plasma and remdesivir for people in severe clinical condition. So this amount should, in my opinion, be increased as far as possible. Success some we have achieved in these four years is that, for example, in my specialty, when we started on the first budget, the birth, for which you all know how special the path of life begins, was BGN 580. Now it is BGN 1,100, i.e. double, so a lot of things have been done in this term from this point of view. The National Framework Treaty, which should be concluded in accordance with this budget, which we will accept today, possibly at first reading, there I appeal once again to the Doctor's Union of the Tribune and to the representatives of the NHIF to make a very good percentage ratio of the prices of the paths, and since we are already talking about it for a fourth term, in some respects it is respected, in some respects not, to see the ratios of Germany, France and Belgium, to make any ratio between the prices of the paths. Otherwise, we continue to see a severe dissonance in prices. Some trails are very well funded, others are extremely underfunded. That's my appeal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u215	Thank you, Dr. Popovski. Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. [[DPS lines.]] I'm calling off the debate. [[Heckling]] Okay, I looked at you once, twice, three times. [[Heckling]] I've looked very carefully! The next time, however, I will not call off the vote that I have started announcing. [[DPS lines.]] Please state if there are any other statements? Mr. Yankov. Is there anyone after him who wants to make a statement? No. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u216	Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! Today, I cannot imagine that when discussing the budget of the State, the budget of the Bulgarian National Health Insurance Fund and the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, we will use the banal budget terminology in a normal budgetary process to discuss the budgetary paragraphs. In all the analyses that I have bothered to read about this budget for 2021, it is defined as an election. Only the Minister of Finance defines the budget as anti-epidemic. Yes, the atmosphere of the upcoming elections is feeling ahead of the future elections, but the present is a coat and only a coat. That is why I believe that today the most important questions to be answered are three questions: is this budget giving enough funds for tests because people have already paid enough out of their diagnosing pocket; is this budget giving enough opportunities for treatment? And here I congratulate the team of the Ministry and the leading medical institutions that have proposed a single standardized treatment protocol. However, dear Minister, there are problems with the insurance and remdesivir, there is a need for investment in centers to carry out plasma feresis to provide recolescent plasma. I can provide you with specific data from the last days. I'm sure you'll do everything you can to secure the treatment under this protocol. However, what needs to be foreseen in the budget is that people will most likely pass from one stage to the slightest, in more complex cases and will sometimes need to be treated at different stages of this protocol and therefore there should be funds. The third important question is whether this budget will ensure better payment to medical professionals. This must happen because I know that you too are convinced that this is part of people's motivation. And they deserve it. Your latest statements that such an amount will be secured will be expected to see realized between first and second readings. The question is, however, on what mechanism this money will be distributed, because very soon we saw that some millions were promised again, which had to go for nurses' salaries, but no mechanism was found because the Cassata only paid prices on clinical pathways. And you promised an equal amount that would build on this payment. As regards the budget, it is necessary to emphasise that it has several key features. First of all, very carefully and skeptical should be forecast both revenue and expenditure. The revenue, because the environment is extremely unstable. The growth of the uninsured Bulgarian citizens is expected, which raises the question: how much will the revenues be? There are also questions regarding costs, because medical institutions will obviously continue to receive 85%, i.e. there will be some 15% that may not be digested. This puts to the test those who made this budget. But I don't think that's the biggest problem. In this uncertain environment, on quicksand, buffers are needed. We note as positive that, for many years now, the health fund reserve within 149 million, if I am not mistaken, has not been allocated ahead of time something that was done in the previous years. The idea, when it was determined that the budget of the Health Insurance Fund should have a reserve, was precisely such that it should be used in critical situations, such as the one we are in. Positive is also the proposed another buffer of 300 million. For the first time this year, the psychological limit of 5 billion will be passed, which will be divided into the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. Despite everything, however, the principle is clearly true again.. Nothing old is forgotten and nothing new has been learned................................... and nothing new is learned...................................... and nothing old is forgotten and nothing new is Firstly, you are again proposing changes through the Transitional and Final Provisions. Now I will not dwell on this, but it was something that was written even in the European Commission Report as a negative practice. Regional disproportions are again being waged on the ratio of outpatient and hospital care to prevention and active treatment, to early diagnosis and drug therapy, to specialties, to regions, as I have already said, which is obviously creating a problem in this situation as well. We really wanted to see an information system at last, because there isn't one yet. The funds for such may exist somewhere in another budget, but not in the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, which, on the one hand, is logical. But the lack of e-health care is painful and is an increasingly obsessive lack that costs a lot because it is absurd for adult patients with many chronic diseases to go to search for their paper between the offices in this environment and not yet to have an electronic recipe. We are witnessing the efforts you are making, but this is not a fact at this time. It is absurd for personal physicians to ask for an electronic direction to avoid unnecessary physical contact between patients between sick and healthy. We hope this will be a fact so that they can run diagnostic tests that will facilitate everyone's work. There is no electronic system for connection between individual units of the health system between people and hospitals, between emergency and outpatient care.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u217	On the budget, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u218	Don't interrupt me, please. I'm talking about the budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u219	It's the philosophy of the budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u220	Absolutely budget philosophy.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u221	No, you've strayed, so...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u222	Don't you dare...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u223	I've allowed myself to remind you that you've strayed. On the budget, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u224	In conclusion: a difficult year is coming for all patients, for medics, for institutions and for the state. What needs to be done with the budget of the Health Insurance Fund is to provide a minimum guarantee for financial security despite the uncertain system and pressure on this system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u225	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Iankov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u226	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Minister! In the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, the so-called Health Budget, what do we find? Again, the failure to reform the health system. The structure of the budget for the most part has not changed the way the budget has been in previous years, and the situation requires a new philosophy in terms of the costs with which healthcare is financed and provided. Prevention and prevention is once again underestimated, unlike practice in many other European countries. The crisis caused by a horse had to provoke not only chaotic actions, but a forecast for the next year for the development of this crisis and for new thinking and a new philosophy of how the funds available to the National Health Insurance Fund were to be adequately met and crossed such an infection. What is certain is that there will be an increase in medical-diagnostic research, especially the tests for health-insured citizens for a coronavirus. The Bulgarian Medical Union has expressed a reasoned opinion objecting to the financial framework laid down in the part of the health insurance payments for medical activities and insist that they be reviewed precisely because of the situation in which the pressure on the health system is also placed. Have you taken note of the lack of sufficient resources in primary outpatient medical care and as a result of the failure to provide in full the dispensary monitoring of chronic patients and to increase the rate of preventive examinations carried out on health insured persons, including a few months in which prevention, examination, early diagnosis were impossible, prohibited by an order. This led to much greater pressure on the health system, especially on hospital treatment after the cancellation of this order. All this needs to be taken into account in the budget for 2021. It is not a question of demonstrating that there are more funds and that these funds should be directed after a thorough analysis, a prognosis of the different options for the development of the situation, the pressure on the health system and on the individual units. However, these units, in order to be able to function coordinatedly, need to be linked to a single information system that will also help the efficient spending, channeling the funds, a faster adequate analysis, daily, hourly, for the different state in which the entire system is located. Mr. Minister, I personally expected you to make a proposal for a revision of the 2020 budget after your inauguration. You have found the opportunity to use reservations, but is the situation and tension of healthcare workers adequately met at the moment? It's not elevated. Aren't they at the limit of their powers, aren't they demotivated for not demonstrating attitude, understanding their work? This needs to be shown in budget 2021, and respect for the dignity of these people. We do not see the need for funds to increase staff to be attractive to the profession of doctor, we see no understanding of the error made in the years with the closure of infectious wards. The logic that they are not profitable should not work in perspective from the analysis that is being done, the situation with the coronavirus. It's like asking for profit from the operation of the Fire Department, the security authorities.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u227	On the budget, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u228	And when we see in people's eyes the hope that management understands the problems and is ready in dialogue and with the industry to find a solution to these problems, this is not evident from the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, seeing the opinion of the Bulgarian Medical Union. We will not support such proposals as the Draft Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund and we urge you to comply with the opinion of the experts between first and second reading to make the appropriate adjustments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u229	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Is there any line to Dr. Iankov's statement? [[Comments from GERB: "Eee! "]] I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Ademov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u230	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Members of the House, Dear Minister, Dear Minister, Mrs. Deputy Minister! At our attention is the Draft Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2021. The budget is, by definition, a financial plan for implementing a certain type of policy. Unfortunately, it is difficult to see in the proposed budget the policies to be financed with the texts set out in this bill. I would like to draw attention to the revenue structure. It is commendable that, for another year under the legislation, the received transfers for health insurance from the Ministry increased by that 5% and are now nearly a billion 800 million, but the state still owes its contribution in terms of revenue in the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. We hope to reach higher levels next year. Next, in terms of costs, we see the number 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are Dear colleagues, if you believe that this money for medicinal products in general will be sufficient, we at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will offer the additional resources of 106 million. BGN, which is under the budget - I do not know why you found a place in the budget of the state social security, those 50 BGN, for which the official information is that they are spent on medicinal products. Once used for medicinal products, their natural place is in the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. And that billion 300 million can be supplemented by that 106 million, so that there is no impression that there is some pre-election populism and election handout of funds within these 50 levs. Next, what is recorded in art. 3 and in art. 4. Honourable Members, every year when we look at the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, we propose that this excessive regulation be abolished. Article 3 shall apply to the regulation of outpatient assistance and medical diagnostic activities, and the next article. 4 refers to the annual total cost of health insurance payments. It is about the so-called budgets or limits of medical institutions that are distributed by types of medical institutions according to the methodology of national framework negotiations. If all these issues are cleared, in any case, the targeting of this five billion resource will be at a better level. What do I mean? With a larger financial resource, however, the aim is gone, it is not clear what effects we will achieve. All right, we'll give you 5 billion. leva, what will we achieve with this budget next year? That's missing. In any case, those nearly 150 million who are in the reserve for casual expenses should be more, I think, at least. Why? Because in the year when there are a lot of unknowns about how the crown crisis will flow from here on in the next year, this resource must in any case be greater in order to be more flexible.. I am ending and there is an opportunity to react without having to update the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. I hope that with the proposals that will be made between first and second readings, the Bulgarian health system will receive more effective funding so that the Bulgarian patients can be satisfied. And something that I'm graduating with... [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u231	Please remain silent in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u232	My fellow Members, in this budget, I believe that the link between the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund on the one hand and the funds that are laid down in the Programme for the Reconstruction of Europe must be clear. Dear colleagues, you know that in this programme there is a mechanism for financing working conditions within medical institutions. The relationship between this budget and those funds which are under European solidarity does not exist in practice, and this is one of the problems of this law. I conclude by saying that with the proposals that we will make between first and second readings, I hope the bill has a slightly more acceptable appearance.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u233	Thank you, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u234	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u235	Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u236	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm speaking as a doctor, although not in medical science, with an insistence on a clarification. If it remains only for the medical college to discuss the budget, the quorum in this House will not be enough, Mr. Chairman. I believe that the debate is political and that your requirement on it to speak only doctors in medicine is unconstitutional and is against the Rules of the National Assembly, so that any Member of the National Assembly may speak on this matter. The debate is not within a professional college. I hope you accept my arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u237	I understand you, but where did you hear me make the requirement to speak only medically? Did you hear that from me, Dr. Zablyanov? You didn't hear.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u238	Do you want me to continue?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u239	No. We just got into business.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u240	I can go on. What you don't understand, I can carry on. I apologize!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u241	Okay. Are there any lines to the speech of the MP Ademov? I don't see anyone who wants to. Are there any other speeches? I'm closing the debate. Voting regime for the adoption of the Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2021 Vote 82 MPs: 75 against 7, no abstentions. The bill has been passed. Mr. Ivanov, do you have a procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u242	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Mr. Minister, Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u243	Take off your mask! It doesn't make any sense. It's like you're talking underwater.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u244	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I am doing a voting procedure to extend the working hours of today's sitting until all the items on the agenda are adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u245	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any disagreements with the procedural proposal made? I won't. I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 96 MPs: for 93, against 3, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW PROJECT FOR THE BUDGET OF THE STATE PUBLIC SURVEY FOR 2021 Please, make sure that these huge reports are summarized. [[GERB lines.]] Don't call from a place not to point out the door, please! [[Laughter from GERB and OP.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u246	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please, a procedure for the admission of Zornitsa Rusinova, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u247	Vote clearance mode! Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. I'd like the guest to take his place in the hall. Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u248	♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Budget and Finance on the State Social Security Budget Bill 2021, No 002-01-60, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020. At a meeting held on 5 November 2020, the Budget and Finance Committee discussed the State Social Security Budget Bill for 2021. The bill was presented by the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mrs. Zornitsa Rusinova. It pointed out that the State Social Security Budget Bill for 2021 is based on the government's three-year budget forecast for 2021 and the following policies are laid down in it: 1. Revenues: - The amount of the insurance contribution to the Fund shall be reserved for the Pensions and Fund for the persons under art. The amount of the insurance contributions for the other DVO funds and also the ratios between the insurers and the insured persons shall be maintained at the level of 2020. - For 2021 no new minimum insurance incomes have been agreed on, in terms of economic activities and qualification groups of professions. Without imposing an administrative increase of the MOD when planned increase of the minimum wage by 6.6 per cent of BGN 610. at 650 BGN, the average increase in MOD in 2021 is expected to be about 4.5 percent. - The minimum insurance income for self-insuring persons of BGN 610 is increased. £650. - The minimum insurance income for the registered farmers and tobacco producers is preserved - BGN 420. - The maximum insurance income for all insured persons is preserved at 3000 BGN. - For 2021, no contributions to the Fund shall be paid to the Guaranteed claims of the employees. - set for revenue in the budget of the National Insurance Institute (NSI) 90 000 BGN. from the incomes of the Fund "Guaranteed claims of employees" "for the activities under art. 13 of the Law on the Guaranteed Claims of Workers and Employees in the Insolvency of the Employer (ZGVR). The total amount of revenue and transfers for 2021 from the consolidated budget for state social security is available at 14 841,3 million. BGN, or with 1,85.6 million. lv. more than 2020 2. Cost: - the age and retirement insurance for workers under the conditions of third category of work and the minimum age for the retirement of the persons under art. Art. 69, Art. Art. 69a. 69b of the Social Security Code (SOC) ; - the percentage for each year of insurance service in the pension formula shall be maintained at the level of 1.2 per cent reached in 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u249	Excuse me, could you stop for a second? Mr. Ivanov, at the very least, it is not polite to turn your back on the speaker from your party, and secondly, it is not chivalrous. If you do this again, I'll have your chair found! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u250	- from 1 January 2021 the minimum amount of the pension for internship and age is increased from 250 BGN. 300 leva. monthly (increased by 20 per cent) ; - from 1 January 2021 the maximum amount of one or more pensions received increases from BGN 1200. At BGN 1440. (increased by 20 per cent) ; - from 1 July 2021, employment pensions awarded until 31 December 2020 shall be updated by 5% (percentage determined under art. 100 CSR) ; - during the first three months of 2021 it is planned to continue to pay additional amounts to the pensions of all pensioners in the amount of 50 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - the minimum daily amount of unemployment allowance is BGN 12,00 and the maximum daily amount is BGN 74,29.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - the period of payment of the money compensation for pregnancy and childbirth is maintained.. 410 days and the amount of the compensation for raising a child up to two years of age............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - and in 2021 the possibility introduced in 2017 for mothers (the adoptive parents) who are entitled to take leave during pregnancy and childbirth until the age of one year of the child but do not use it, return to work and receive compensation from the Ministry of Health at the rate of 50 per cent of their compensation for pregnancy and childbirth; - the payment of monetary benefits for temporary incapacity under art. 40, para. The first three working days of temporary incapacity shall be paid by the insurance provider and from the 4th day of failure by the DEA; - the amount of income to be taken into account for the calculation of short-term benefits in case of temporary inability to work for 18 calendar months, pregnancy and childbirth and unemployment for 24 months shall be maintained; - the amount of one-off aid in the death of an insured person is maintained• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - a maximum amount of the guaranteed claims paid by the Fund is fixed. The total amount of expenditure and transfers for 2021 is 14 841.3 million. lv. and this amount is greater by 1,885.6 million. lv. from 2020. With the largest relative share are the cost of pensions of 12,7 million. BGN, with the provision of pension funds of 1770.3 million. lv. more than their size in the 2020 DPO budget The difference is mainly due to the additional funds envisaged for: - the year-round payment of the 6.7% increase in pensions for employment, social pension for old age, as well as of the related amounts of pensions and supplements from 1 July 2020 - 383.2 million lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - the year-round payment of the increases from 1 July 2020 minimum amount of the pension for internship and the age of 219,43 BGN. BGN 250,00. (for the increase above the planned 6,7%), as well as the associated minimum amounts of pensions for the work of 140.0 million. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - the increase of the minimum amount of the pension for internship and age by 20% of BGN 250,00 BGN 300,00. from 1 January 2021 The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - the increase in the maximum amount of one or more pensions received by 20% of BGN 1220,00. BGN 1440,00 from 1 January 2021 The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Updating employment pensions granted by 31 December 2020 by 5,0% from 1 July 2021 (percentage determined by art. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - payment of an additional amount of 50,00 BGN. to the pension of each pensioner during the months of January, February and March 2021 The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - the possibility of selecting a methodology for determining the individual coefficient between 2019 and the end of 2022 pursuant to § 22w of the CSR CSR. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - the possibility of automatic recalculation of pensions with the supplementary insurance service acquired by the pensioner in the post-delivery period, respectively, after the last reclaim of the pension. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - a natural increase in pension costs due to the higher amounts of newly granted pensions compared to the amounts of suspended pensions, as well as to the modification of certain pensions of a higher amount of 19.9 million. lv. The average pension amount of one pensioner in 2021 is set to reach BGN 488.97 and the nominal increase is 18.6 per cent at the average amount of the SPA for 2020. BGN 412,28 A positive real pension growth of 16.2 percent is expected in 2021 at a forecast value of the annual average harmonised inflation of 2021 from 2.1 percent. In order to continue the State's support for the sectors and economic activities concerned by the measures implemented to limit the spread of COVID-19 in 2021 in the activity "Employment programmes and activities', 300 million are planned. lv. for the payment of funds to employers from the sectors concerned. The consolidated budget of state social security for 2021 is expected to end with a zero budget balance. Under the budget lines of the Funds for 2021, the results are as follows: - Fund of Pensions and deficit of 5 448.3 million. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Fund of Pensions for the persons under art. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty - Fund of Pensions, non-employment-related deficit of 0.02 million. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Trudy accident and occupational disease fund - Rest of 179,4 million. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Total disease and disability fund. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - "Unemployment" fund "Lack of 355,0 million." lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - a budget of the NSI - a remainder of 5,840.6 million. lv. The total result of the Funds and the NSI budget shall be balanced to zero. The Transitional and Final Provisions of the Draft are proposed amendments and additions to Part One of the State Social Security Code, related to the implementation of the budget of the State Social Security, as well as amendments relating to the clarification of provisions on the rights of insured persons and editorial changes. After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held and the following results were received:.......................... 10 MPs........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the Budget of State Social Security for 2021, No 002-01-60, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u251	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. Who will present the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Report? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u252	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee for the First Voting of the State Social Security Budget Bill 2021, No 002-01-60, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 5 November 2020, together with the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Health Committee, examined and discussed the Draft Budget Bill of State Social Security for 2021. The bill was presented by Zornitsa Rusinova Deputy Minister of Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. The draft budget was reviewed and endorsed by the National Insurance Institute Supervisory Board on 20 October 2020. On 27 October 2020, its discussion took place within the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. The draft budget of the State Social Security for 2021 shall be consistent with the main assumptions of the mid-term budgetary forecast for the period 2020 and the instructions of the Minister of Finance in relation to the final stage of the budgetary procedure for 2021. I. Parameters of the Draft Budget of the Consolidated Budget of State Social Security 2021 1. Basic social security indicators: - average annual number of insured persons - 2 744,5 thousand.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - average social security income (to determine the percentage by art. 100 of the CSR) s 1 166.00 BGN• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - number of unemployed persons entitled to compensation• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - average monthly number of pensioners - 2 104.2 million 2. Revenue policies for 2021: - the amount of the social contribution to the Fund is maintained. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. - no minimum insurance income (MOD) in economic activities and qualification groups of professions have been agreed for 2021. Without imposing an administrative increase of the MOD and with the planned increase of the minimum wage by 6.6 per cent of BGN 610. at BGN 650, the average increase in MOD in 2021 is expected to be about 4.5 percent; - the minimum insurance income for self-insuring persons of BGN 610 is increased. £650.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - the minimum insurance income for registered farmers and tobacco producers is maintained.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - the maximum insurance income for all insured persons is maintained at 3000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - for 2021, no contributions shall be made to the Guaranteed claims of the employees. 3. Expenditure policies for 2021: - the required age and insurance service for the retirement of workers under the conditions of third category of work and the minimum age for the retirement of the persons under art. Art. 69, Art. Art. 69a. 69b of the Social Security Code (SOC) ; - the percentage for each year of insurance service in the pension formula shall be maintained at the level of 1.2 per cent reached in 2019; - from 1 January 2021 the minimum amount of the pension for internship and age is increased from BGN 250,00. BGN 300,00. monthly (increased by 20 per cent) ; - from 1 January 2021 the maximum amount of one or more pensions received increases from BGN 1200,00. BGN 1440,00 (increased by 20 per cent) ; - from 1 July 2021, employment pensions awarded until 31 December 2020 shall be updated by 5%. - during the first three months of 2021 it is planned to continue to pay additional amounts to the pensions of all pensioners in the amount of 50 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - the minimum daily amount of unemployment allowance is maintained at BGN 12,00 and the maximum daily amount is maintained at BGN 74,29.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - the period of payment of the money compensation for pregnancy and childbirth is maintained.. 410 days and the amount of the compensation for raising a child up to two years of age............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - in 2021, the possibility introduced in 2017 for mothers (the adoptive parents) who are entitled to take leave during pregnancy and childbirth until the age of one year of the child but do not use it, return to work and receive compensation from the Ministry of Health at the rate of 50 per cent of their compensation for pregnancy and childbirth; - the period, the income for which is taken into account in calculating the amounts of short-term benefits in case of temporary incapacity is maintained - the amount of one-off aid in the death of an insured person is maintained• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - a maximum amount of the guaranteed claims paid by the Fund is fixed. The State Social Security Budget Bill 2021 makes many changes to the Social Security Code and other laws in force. In the Social Security Code, the change is particularly important, which refers to how to determine the amount of reduction of the individual coefficient, when a person is also provided in a universal pension fund, the so-called reduction. It is also proposed that, in determining the amount of the reduction, account should also be taken of the transfer from the State budget of 12 per cent to the sum of the insurance benefits of all insured persons for the period from 2009 to 2015 inclusive. In order to ensure the rights of all pensioners, it is proposed that pensions granted with a reduced individual coefficient be recalculated. Given the missed opportunity of a large number of persons to change their insurance from a universal pension fund in the Fund of the Fund of the European Union, 5 years before the retirement age, it is proposed that from 1 January to 30 June 2021 all those who have missed this deadline be able to exercise that right. In the same period, persons who have already been granted a pension without changing their insurance will be able to request its recalculation without reduction of the individual coefficient if they transfer their funds from the individual account to a universal pension fund to the Fund. According to Deputy Minister Rusinova, the draft budget of state social security aims to protect the incomes of insured persons and pensioners by not compromising the financial stability of the social security system. In the discussion of the draft budget took part the MPs Svetlana Angelova, Kalin Popovski, Vesela Lecheva and Georgi Gokov. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 11 votes for the vote, 7 votes against, and without abstention, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy adopted the following opinion: He proposes to the National Assembly to support the State Social Security Budget Bill for 2021, No 002-01-60, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020 "Thank you very much."
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u253	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. You were perfect and thorough. I'm opening the debate. Mr. Siddy, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u254	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, of course, that we from the "United Patriarchs" will support this budget. We even thank GERB for supporting this budget, because this is the budget of our fulfilled promises. With this budget we raise the minimum pension by 20% and it reaches those 300 BGN which we promised at the beginning of the mandate. We know that it is not enough, but to compare the increase since the beginning of the term or in just four years is almost double something that has never happened. I'll say it again: 300 leva. minimum pension supplied and fulfilled! [[(Comments from GERB: "Slower." We can't understand you.]] To the horror of the Socialists, who have offered this for three years, knowing that it will not pass, because this increase should have happened smoothly. The same people who made this proposal today insolently and hypocritically explain that this decision is wrong. These are the socialists who do not want the pension to increase. They're terrified that they were stunned in their internal battles they forgot to be social. But here is the time to say that unlike BSP we keep our promises and think about people. Yes, again: the minimum pension for 2021 will be 300 BGN. In addition, all pensions will be increased by 5% next year. All Bulgarian pensioners in the first quarter of the year will receive 50 BGN. as an anti-crisis measure. The budget for 2021 will pay child allowances for all Bulgarian children. For everyone! Again, our promise that we have fulfilled. The minimum wage is increased, all budget salaries, salaries of teachers and doctors. Yes, the public insurance budget is an election budget. I agree with that finding. This is a budget for parliamentary elections, but not for those who follow, but for the 2017 elections, the year in which we made commitments to our voters and who we carry out with this budget. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u255	Thank you, Mr. Siddy. Several times, however, you have made a technical mistake - the minimum pension will be BGN 350 while it is this government, while it is this coalition government! Not 300, 350. Are there lines? I won't. Mr. Ademov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u256	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madame Minister! Allow me to begin today's speech with a retrospect of what happened in 2000 and 2015. In 2000, a large-scale structural parametric reform of the pension system in Bulgaria was carried out. In 2015, with a very serious repair of what was done in 2000, the indicators and criteria of age and internship, which are still active in our legislation, have changed. Expectations were that based on these changes the pension system in Bulgaria, the budget of state social security will be financially stable, the pensions in Bulgaria will be adequate, there will be high levels of social protection, there will be a sufficiently high coefficient of substitution. All these expectations of great regret still do not come true. They do not come true because if we look at the deficit in the state social security budget next year, we will see that if, in 2009, when GERB took over for the first time, the deficit under the programme was 2 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, in 2017 At the beginning of this mandate, the deficit is already 2 billion. lv. More and in 2021 the projected deficit is 6 billion. 205 million. lv. [[Reply from the National Representative Boris Vangelov.]] Dear colleagues, all these numbers show that this proposed budget puts the expected end to the financial stability of state social security. I'm not worried about this budget, I know what the reaction is. You will say that all the countries in the European Union are currently, in connection with the crown crisis, adopting budgets with huge deficits. Even we are second to Estonia in deficit and this is one of the arguments. I'm not as worried about this deficit as the rate of growth in recent years. You can see that during the management of GERB by 4 billion. lv. This deficit is increasing. These are the numbers. If anyone wants to disprove them, come here from the stands to say: no, that is not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u257	Why is that?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u258	Dear colleagues, this is true.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u259	Why?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u260	And the biggest concern is that the economy with this 45,000 insured, which you bet in the budget next year, is not going to be able to recover these funds, which means... [[Reply from the National Representative Boris Vangelov.]] Mr. Chairman, will you give me a chance to...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u261	Mr. Vangelov, please stop shouting from the spot.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u262	This deficit is at the expense of debt financing. The economy with the 5.1% deficit set for this year, for the following year "2.6% growth." With this growth, these funds cannot be compensated. If anyone tells me that 2.1% will be compensated for this 6 billion. lv. A deficit in the state social security budget means he's lying or he doesn't know the numbers as they are. That is why I say that investment policy is a better option than financing current expenditure. Current costs, when financed by debt, then in the long term financial stability is threatened. That's what I mean by those few numbers I mentioned to you. And one more thing, one more consideration. We've raised internship and age. They have to reach 2037. 65 years and 40 years and 37 years respectively. Honourable Members, see five years after the last reform of 2015 what is the result. Thanks to these measures, we have saved 12 million each year for this budget. lv. Twelve million leva at 12 billion budget for the Fund Pancy!? What effect have we achieved? Is this the effectiveness of the reform we are doing? People have a hard time coping with the conditions for acquiring a pension with age and internship, and at the same time we say that we have savings of 12 million. lv. The reduction in the number of pensioners is 18 thousand expected for next year. We say what? We have reduced the number of pensioners thanks to the measures we have taken, but we do not realize that a large part of the reduction in the number of pensioners is due to natural causes. Isn't that right, Minister? Next, let's look at the revenue. Colleagues, see what this is about. Last year, when we discussed the state social security budget, we proposed an increase in revenue by 150 million. lv. You brought from nine wells of water to tell us how this income can't happen. Not only did it happen, but it happened in a tough year, which is 2020. The year of the Kovid crisis. And the expected over-performance of the government social security budget revenue for 2020 is 338 million. lv. This is based on information that has been given quite officially. What's the bottom line? The conclusion is that revenues have been underestimated and when revenue is underestimated, there is no way that costs will not suffer. Because then we offered, for example, with the 150 million. lv. To update pensions not from July 1st, I think it was not an election year, but from January 1st. You rejected this proposal with the argument that it costs, say a few million leva. I'll tell you in a minute how much the money is. Next, in terms of costs. If last year's expenditure is covered by 65% of the insurance contributions, this year, more precisely with this budget for the following year, the coverage of insurance contributions decreases to 56%, which increases the dependence of the state social security budget on the state budget. [[Relations from the National Representative Boris Vangelov.]] There's nothing? The thing that has it, dear Mr. Vangelov, is that the other systems in the country will suffer because it is pressure on public finances. Of 4 billion. lv. increase the deficit to 6 billion. lv. means that some of the other systems will suffer. If that's not clear, should I say it in an even clearer way?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u263	Mr. Ademov, don't engage in dialogue. Please, on the philosophy of the Law. If you want then you can talk to Mr. Vangelov outside the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u264	Once again, if there is no risk in this budget, the risk is in the long term. In the long term, the fiscal policy relating to state social security, if it continues in this way, will in any case be jeopardised. It's not about spending. The problem is that the economy will have a hard time dealing with this biased growth for next year, it will be difficult to make up for, which means we are moving on to long funding. I'm repeating it again. A few words about the minimum retirement pension and the age of the pride of the United Patriarchs. Congratulations on finally being able to impose with unprecedented pressure on the government of GERB the size of this pension. Colleagues, see what this is about. There is hardly anyone in this room and outside this room who disagrees with the fact that pensions in Bulgaria, especially minimum pensions for internship and age, are low. The question is how do we make these people have higher incomes? Should they have higher pension benefits, should they be supported by the social assistance system? What's the problem? The problem is, that's $1 million. Twelve thousand. Pensioners - half of the pensioners in Bulgaria will already be at the minimum amount of the pension. And one of you will say, "So what?" What is the problem, really, that half of the pensioners in Bulgaria are of minimal size? The problem lies in that a very large part of them are almost 70% do not have a social contribution to be able to rely on the pension of 300 BGN. Having no social contribution, every month by July, when the update comes with 5%, every month the state budget will finance with 90 million per month the amount of these pensions. An additional one, of course. That's what this is about. And one more thing: you are proposing an increase in minimum and maximum dimensions by 20%. At the same time on all other pensions, the increase is 5%, and notice the increase from 1 July. What do we tell those with the amount of pensions between the minimum and the maximum amount? Do not provide for real income, go to the gray sector, because a government comes, takes a political decision and says: all pensions will be equal, or half of them. This is the big problem, this is the bad signal we give to the insured in Bulgaria, not that we increase the size of pensions. And one more thing, fellow Members, you claim that this budget is not an election budget! If you're saying that it's not an election, why isn't this increase in minimum retirement pension from July 1st? Why since January 1st? Four years in a row we propose updating pensions to be from January 1st, you reject this proposal every year. Why do you agree now? The important answer, the natural answer is because parliamentary elections are approaching. Dear colleagues, despite the fact that you are waving your finger, remember one thing, I have heard recently that the United Patriarchs have increased...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u265	Please, the bill we're discussing. Don't stray, don't look for dialogue with the House, please! In the philosophy of the Bill, if you have any comments on it, please. Be quiet in this Chamber, honourable Members.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u266	I have recently heard a definition that the United Patriarchs have raised five times the amount of pensions. That must be true. But I would like to make a reference to the far 2008 year. Then the Triple Coalition in five steps increased the amount of the 2009 pensions, you yourself will tell who won the parliamentary elections. I mean, what's the bottom line? The conclusion is that with social populism, with social measures, through social security, it is difficult to gain the voter's trust. The sooner you understand that, the better. Next, I cannot help but say a few words about the other election promise of the United Patriarchs. Dear colleagues, you promised...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u267	Mr. Ademov, I'm warning you twice. I'll take your word for it. Under the bill, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u268	Right under the bill...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u269	Do not seek dialogue with the House and do not seek a conversation with political power, please. At the moment, the item on the agenda is the....... the.... of state social security.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u270	The state social security budget also includes disability pensions. I'm gonna have to ask you to add the time you took from me. Invalid pensions are part of the budget, not just any part, but 1 billion. and 700 million. lv. If this is not important to you, it is extremely important to me because these are expenditures and these are expenses at the expense of debt financing and not at the expense of social security contributions. One billion and 700 million is the cost of disability pensions. Understand this thing. You promised I wouldn't mention the name of the parliamentary group, revision of the disability pensions. I don't see that audit in the budget. You were going to save money to update, update pensions. Instead of reviewing the disability pensions, you update pensions based on the debt that I told you just now, how much it is. What, though, do we offer from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? Dear colleagues, it is said in the Social Security Code that the amount of pensions is determined by multiplying the income by the coefficient 1.2 for each year of service. What we are proposing is to have justice in this system, because the biggest problem is the lack of justice, and what you are proposing in this budget also undermines justice. Since 1.2 is currently a frozen coefficient, we propose to defreeze this coefficient as adopted 2015. It should be increased to 1.3 in order for all pensioners, during their internship, absolutely fair, to receive a 10% increase. That's your problem whether you accept it or not.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u271	The weather, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u272	Finally, a few words about the changes...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u273	Does group leadership want an extension of time?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u274	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u275	We're extending the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u276	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to finally say a few words about what is being proposed as amendments to the Social Security Code. We support the window from 1 January to the end of July, that is, the six-month period in which the insured persons can transfer the funds from their individual accounts to the budget of state social security or to the Silver Fund. This is a reaction to those who did not understand, especially those born in 1960, who for one reason or another missed the previous such options that were given in the legislation in 2015. With regard to measures relating to the adjustment of the individual pension coefficient, yes, we support these measures, especially those relating to the clearing of periods in which those insured by the universal pension funds did not have contributions to private pension funds. In other words, the periods in which there was no insurance provision had been translated into individual accounts in the universal pension funds, it is obvious that they had to be cleared in order to reduce the coefficient. Now, however, what we want to discuss between first and second readings is whether next year 2021 we should not do so that, for example, July or August, these changes enter into the calculation of the individual coefficient so that those who were born in the first half of 1960 by March can also take advantage of the possibility of having a predictable individual coefficient in order not to recalculate their pensions in the next version. That's what I wanted to say in a nutshell.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u277	Are there any lines? I can't see. Is there anyone else who would like to make other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u278	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Minister, Dear Minister! With my colleagues from the informal group of progressive socialists, we will not support the State Social Security Budget Bill for 2021. The reasons for this are obvious, despite the planned increase of the minimum pension You continue to condemn our mothers and fathers, not just to a miserable existence, but to a struggle for every breath of air. You have had plenty of time to exercise political will and take a step towards recalculating pensions. You didn't want to do that. You are restoring the freezing of maximum insurance income, thus depriving insurance funds of huge income. You freeze pregnancy benefits, maternity benefits, maximum unemployment benefits, and the increase in minimum unemployment benefits is insensitive. Ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, unfortunately, and at the end of your reign, poverty and the severe inequalities with which you will remain in history are preserved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u279	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines? I won't. Mr. Petrov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u280	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will be brief in the sense that the budget that is being proposed now is reasonable. It meets the conditions of the economic development of Bulgaria.. a country of finance, which in the current period, only among all 27 countries of the European Union, managed to contain the budget as it is under the EU agreements, with a deficit of less than 3%. We must not treat one such country lightly and the new budget it is preparing, and that is as soon as the credit rating of this country has been increased. In this regard, I would like to say that despite the increases offered in the new budget, the minimum pension in Bulgaria, which is 300 BGN, remains lower than in the neighbouring countries. We need to keep that in mind, and what we still need to know is that this pension has been increasing very well since January 1st. I welcome this because then in the middle of the year there will be another 5% increase in this minimum pension to reach or at least get closer...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u281	Just for one part.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u282	That's right, for one part it's true, but they'll get it. The other thing I would like to remind you is that one of the speakers here as Minister of the Government of the Triple Coalition left a minimum pension of BGN 136. I would like to ask whether since then the lamb has become 28 leva, whether the chicken has become 10 leva.? What's doubled? How people lived with the minimum pension that this minister left for them. for people who had 38 years of internship.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u283	Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I vote on the State Social Security Budget Bill 2021, No 002-01-60, submitted by the Council of Ministers. Vote 102 MPs: 95 against 6, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We interrupt now and continue in 20 minutes. [[After the break]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u284	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly, proposes that the following additional item be included in the weekly Work Programme of the National Assembly: Draft decision for the adoption of rules for participation in the plenary meetings of the National Assembly of Members of the National Assembly placed under compulsory isolation or quarantine due to the disease of COVID-19 by an act of an authority under art. 61, para. 2 and 3 of the Health Act. The representatives of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Vote 85 MPs: for 84, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with: LAW FOR THE STATE BUDGET OF BULGARIA FOR 2021, No 002-01-59, implemented by the MINISTER COUNCIL. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. You have the floor to present the report, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u285	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Permission procedure in the hall to allow Mrs. Rositsa Velkova, Deputy Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u286	I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted. Please invite Mrs. Velkova to the hall. Please continue, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u287	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 002-01-59, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020. At a meeting held on 5 November 2021, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021. The meeting was attended by Kiril Ananiev, Minister of Finance; Kalin Hristov, Deputy Governor of BNB; Tsvetan Tsvetkov, Chairman of the Court of Auditors; Professor Boris Grozdanov, Chairman of the Fiscal Council; Boyko Atanasov, Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission; representatives of trade unions and employers' organizations, etc. Minister Ananiev presented the Draft State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021 and stressed that the estimates in the updated medium-term budget forecast for the period 2021 reflect the trends in the autumn macroeconomic forecast for the development of the national economy and the estimates of the effect of the spending discretionary measures, including the provisional measures under exceptional circumstances. The expenditure measures for the period 2021 are mainly socio-economic in nature: social measures to protect the most vulnerable groups, measures to support business and employment and measures to overcome the spread and treatment of COVID-19. Macroeconomic forecast 2021 Main macroeconomic indicators: 1. Gross domestic product GDP growth will reach 2.5% in 2021. GDP growth will accelerate to 3% in 2022 and 3.2% in 2023. 2. Labour market The forecast employment for 2021 is 0.9% after the expected decline for 2020. Along with the employment recovery process, the unemployment rate is expected to decrease initially to 5.2% in 2021 and in the coming years to 4.6% at which to stabilise. 3. Inflation Inflation processes in 2021 will depend, above all, on the level of recovery of international raw material prices and oil prices. At the end of 2021 inflation is forecast to accelerate to 2.8% and average annual inflation to 2.1%. Financial policy and basic parameters for the period 2021 The revenue for the period 2021 is expressed as a percentage of GDP in the range of 38,3% to 37,6% and in nominal amounts they are increased by 47,645.2 million. lv. For 2021, it is expected to reach 52,423.8 million. lv. in 2023, expenditure expressed as a percentage of GDP ranged from 42,2% to 39,6% and made a major consolidation contribution to achieving the objectives of the budgetary balance. Although the parameters of the expenditure part of the budget for 2020 and 2021 exceed the 40% rule of art. 28, para. 1 of the Public Finance Act (public Finance Act), after eliminating the effect of temporary costs for COVID-19 measures they are within the limit. In the medium term, the deficit on the consolidated fiscal programme (on a cash basis) shows a trend of a decrease of 4.4% of gross domestic product in 2020. (revised assessment) up to 3,9% of gross domestic product in 2021, up to 2,0% of gross domestic product in 2022 and up to 1,8% of gross domestic product in 2023, providing for the deficit under the Consolidated fiscal programme to fit within the limit of 2% of gross domestic product under the Public Finance Act. If the effect of the provisional COVID-19 measures foreseen for 2020 and 2021 is excluded from the scope of the budgetary balance, the deficit shall be retained within the limits of national fiscal rules, ranging between 1,5 and 2% of gross domestic product in the period considered. A consolidation of the deficit of the general government sector at the end of the period is envisaged and the negative balance of the budget for 2020 is expected to gradually decrease in the period 2021 - 2023. In 2020 the budget balance is expected to be negative at 5,2% of gross domestic product. In the medium term, a deficit of 5% of gross domestic product for 2021, 1.9% for 2022 and 2.3% of gross domestic product for 2023 is expected. Taking into account the impact of temporary income and cost measures related to the prevention of the spread of COVID-19 in the country and limiting the effects of the crisis, the deficit of the government sector for the next year is expected to be 2.5%. The minimum amount of the fiscal reserve as of 31 December 2021 is intended to remain unchanged compared to those laid down in the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020 amounting to 4,5 billion. lv. On the basis of the assumptions and estimated net debt financing in 2021, the government debt is expected to reach a level of 38,9 billion at the end of the period. BGN, respectively the ratio of government debt to gross domestic product to increase from 25.6% at the end of 2021 to 28.2% at the end of 2023. Expenditure policies and priorities of budget 2021 First of all, the Income Policy An increase of the minimum wage is envisaged from 1 January 2021 to 650 BGN. In 2021, the planned doubling of the remuneration funds of pedagogical specialists will be achieved compared to 2017, with 360,0 million being estimated for this purpose. lv. For 2021, all year-round funds are planned to ensure the 30% increase from 1 August 2020 of staff costs for organ and administration systems entrusted with pandemic management activities and the consequences of COVID-19. Budget 2021 also provides for an increase of 10% in the salary and remuneration of staff employed by employment and service, including insurance contributions, for all entities not covered by the government's socio-economic package, including an increase in the salary and remuneration of staff for electoral posts and for those employed in the judiciary system. Education - Second Priority The implementation of the measures aimed at increasing the attractiveness of the teaching profession and the motivation of the active teachers continues as a basis for providing the scope and quality in pre-school education to achieve higher educational results. 3rd Priority "Health Policy" Health policy has a major focus on ensuring adequate preparedness for the health system in the conditions of a continuing epidemic situation caused by the spread of COVID-19, with a view to ensuring that patients are provided with the necessary medical care and at the same time protecting the health of workers. Social policy The priorities in social policy are primarily aimed at overcoming the socio-economic consequences of the pandemic, related to maintaining employment, increasing the employability of the workforce and reducing unemployment, especially among young people, as well as improving the adequacy and sustainability of social protection systems and social inclusion with a focus on the most vulnerable groups in society. Pension policy Pension policy continues to improve to meet the challenges. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. lv. for an increase of the minimum pension for internship and age of 250 BGN At BGN 300, with effect from 1 January 2021; 94,0 million lv. to increase the maximum amount of one or more pensions received from BGN 1200 On 1440 BGN with effect from 1 January 2021; 884,2 million lv. for measures relating to the modernisation and calculation of pensions, including the year-round payment of pensions increased by 6,7% from 1 July 2020, as well as a new update of pensions from 1 July 2021 by 5 percent; 318,0 million lv. for the payment of allowances to the pensions of all pensioners until March 2021, including Defence policy Funds are provided for the maintenance and development and modernisation of national defence capabilities and capabilities related to collective defence. For 2021, defence costs, according to the NATO classification, amount to 1.69 per cent of gross domestic product, which is 0.05% of gross domestic product more than the reference rate of expenditure on gross domestic product under the National Defence Expenditure Increase Plan to 2 per cent of gross domestic product. The State Budget Bill 2021 provides for a buffer of 5 per cent of the costs granted to some of the chief authorising officers with a budget, as well as subsidies and capital transfers from the central budget, in case the situation with the COVID-19 pandemic worsens significantly, leading to the need to provide exceptional resources related to the treatment of the Bulgarian citizens who are ill, in order to protect their health. From the envisaged limit for buffering funds of 5 percent, the costs of delegated budgets in the system of pre-school and school education and the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology are excluded, and the transfers provided for the state universities, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the Agricultural Academy. Budget relations of the state budget with municipalities for 2021 The main budgetary relations between municipalities and the central budget totalled 4,934.2 million. lv. An increase is envisaged in relation to the state budget for 2020 by 731.7 million. BGN, including: of the total subsidy for the activities delegated by the State by the State by 679,3 million. lv.; of the matching contribution.22.4 million lv.; of transfers for winter maintenance and snow-cleaning of municipal roads by 5.0 million lv.; of the capital expenditure target subsidy - by 25,0 million lv. Budget of the judiciary for 2021 The Supreme Judicial Council proposes for 2021 a reduction in the revenue by 7,0 million. lv. and an increase in expenditure of 138,6 million lv. in relation to those approved by the State Budget Act for 2020 The Council of Ministers proposes an increase in expenditure by 109,0 million for 2021. BGN, not 138,6 million. BGN, as proposed by them, compared to those approved by the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020. For the revenue and expenditure indicated by the Council of Ministers, the budgetary relationship with the central budget is 771.3 million. BGN, which is more than 116,0 million. lv. from the 2020 budgetary relationship Budget of the National Assembly for 2021 The budget of the National Assembly for 2021 provides for revenue of 1.5 million. lv.; costs of 83,0 million BGN 75.5 million of which are current expenditures. BGN, capital expenditure BGN, and Emergency and Contingent Expenditure Reserve BGN, and budgetary relations with the central budget of 81.5 million lv. The estimated GDP deficit for 2020 is expected to increase to 5.2 billion. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. The Standing Committees of the 44th National Assembly at their meetings have discussed, discussed and expressed their support under the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021. After the discussion was concluded in the Committee on Budget and Finance, a vote was held and the following results were obtained: 1. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021 included a draft of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. 1 and 2: no votes......................................................................................................... 2. Under the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, with the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. 1 and 2:........................... 10 MPs................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, with the Opinion of the Council of Ministers on Art. 1 and 2, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u288	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs follows. Mrs. Ilieva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u289	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020. At its meeting on 4 November 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the above bill. The meeting was attended by: from the Ministry of Justice: Mr. Stoyan Stoyanov, Secretary General; from the Ministry of Finance: Ms. Marusya Grubcheva, Head of the Department of the Department of State Expenditure and by the Supreme Judicial Council: Mr. Boyan Magdalinchev and the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council: Mrs. Teodora Tochkova. The draft budget of the judiciary for 2021, prepared by the Supreme Judicial Council, was presented by Mr. Magdalenchev, who pointed out that the budget reflected in art. 2 of the Draft Law was drawn up on the basis of the updated medium-term budgetary forecast for the period 2021 and the assessment of the expected implementation of the 2020 budget. He added that a guiding principle in its development is ensuring an independent judiciary and forecasting the optimal amount of funds needed to ensure the proper functioning of judicial institutions. With regard to the revenue section, the proposals under art. 2 as absolute value in both projects coincide. The Council of Ministers provides for a draft budget for higher revenue from judicial fees and property income and fewer proceeds from fines, penalties, penal interest and other revenue to be proposed by the Supreme Judicial Council. The Supreme Judicial Council and the Council of Ministers predict revenue, aid and donations to amount to 109,0 million. BGN, with a reduction in the total revenue from 2020 by 7 million. lv. The Supreme Judicial Council predicts an increase in expenditure in 2021 by 138,6 million. lv. in relation to the approved budget expenditure for 2020. Thus estimated, the amount of expenditure for 2021 amounts to 909,9 million. lv. The reasons of the Supreme Judicial Council are that the number of magistrates and officers of the judiciary and the means necessary to secure the activities of information systems for the implementation of electronic justice are reflected in its preparation. The funds needed to index wages in relation to the approved budget for 2020, clothing funds, as well as remuneration and insurance contributions are provided for the planned increase with 332 new state units for the positions of the members of staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the institution. Mr. Magdalenchev added that the project provides funds for the implementation of the provisions of art. 360 is from the Law on the Judicial Tribunal and for securing costs in the field of e-government and the introduction of the Single Information System of the Courts. The project of the Supreme Judicial Council also envisions an increase in capital expenditure funds by 31.1 million. lv. more than those approved for 2020, which are necessary for the management of real estate and to ensure the building and technical security of the judiciary. The Council of Ministers, taking into account the requests made by the Supreme Judicial Council to secure the payment of remuneration and social security to those employed in the judiciary, according to the legal requirements and budgetary capabilities, provides for an increase in expenditure compared to that adopted for 2020 by 109,0 million. BGN, or total costs of 880,3 million. lv. The funds planned by the Council of Ministers for current expenditure to secure the activities of the judicial institutions amount to 851.3 million. BGN, with an increase of 105 million compared to 2020. lv. Such funds shall include the costs of staff of the judicial staff, ensuring the implementation of the Office of Protection with the Prosecutor General, the costs of electronic management and the phase-in of the Single Information System of the Courts. In this part, the draft budget of the Supreme Judicial Council provides for current expenditure of 853.5 million. lv. In the capital expenditure part, the Council of Ministers envisions 28.4 million. BGN, with an increase of 4 million compared to 2020. lv. The draft budget presented by the Supreme Judicial Council provides for capital expenditure, including the acquisition of fixed assets and major repairs, amounting to 55,4 million. lv. As regards the maximum amounts of expenditure commitments that can be made in 2021, the two proposals coincide by offering the sum of 134,522,1 million. lv. As regards the maximum amount of the new liabilities, the Supreme Judicial Council proposes the sum of 101,459,5 million. BGN, and the Council of Ministers plans the amount of new liabilities for expenses, which can be accumulated, to be 121 856.5 million. lv. The Council of Ministers supports the amendments proposed by the Supreme Judicial Council to the provisions of art. 2, para. 4, 5, 6 and 7. Mr. Magdalenchev pointed out that the proposed budgets differ in the expenditure section. Ms. Tochkova expressed support regarding the Inspector's budget to the Supreme Judicial Council. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, repair and maintenance of equipment and equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the During the discussion took part the MPs Krum Zarkov and Christian Mitev. Mr. Mitev pointed out that he will support the Draft Law for 2021 with the included draft budget of the judiciary with the opinion of the Council of Ministers, expressing confidence that the proposed estimates will ensure the proper functioning of the judiciary bodies. Mr. Zarkov pointed out that the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) will not support the budget projects drawn up by the Supreme Judicial Council and the Council of Ministers, focusing on the difficulties in updating the judicial map, reducing the workload of magistrates and introducing e-Justice. Following the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs: The proposed article shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in - without votes.......... with 7 votes against................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - with 11 votes for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020, including the draft budget of the judiciary with the opinion of the Council of Ministers. The proposed article shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the - with 11 votes for the Republic of Bulgaria, 7 votes against, and without votes, abstention is proposed to the National Assembly to support the Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u290	Thank you, Mrs. Ilieva. The next report belongs to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. I would like my colleagues to read only the summary of the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u291	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020. At its regular meeting on 4 November 2020, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021. The meeting was attended by Rositsa Velkova Deputy Minister of Finance, Stamen Yanev Deputy Minister of Economy, Irena Georgieva Deputy Minister of Tourism. The main priorities of the state budget for 2021 continue to be income, education, health, defence, social policy, pension policy. A priority remains the successful absorption of EU funds and programmes to achieve sustainable economic growth, higher employment, social inclusion, building a competitive and innovative economy. The financial framework of the Draft Budget of the Ministry of Tourism for 2021 is: revenue of BGN 5 184 800, expenditure of BGN 19 648 500. and transfers amounting to BGN 19 868 200 The draft budget of the Ministry of Economy for 2021 sets out revenue amounting to 27 074 800 BGN and they retain their amount from 2020. The total amount of the planned expenses for the implementation of the policies of the Ministry and of the Program is 101 329 300 BGN, including the government expenses of 76 279 300 BGN, and the administered costs of the project. During the discussion the people representative Valeri Simeonov asked how the fees for the use of beach facilities and accessories will be reduced, what is the envisaged mechanism and legal form; did an analysis of the spent money for holiday vouchers of 210 BGN was made? After presenting and discussing the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: 1. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, including the Project of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. 1 and 2: abstention of 19 Members of the National Assembly, except for...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, with the Opinion of the Council of Ministers on Art. 1 and 2: supposed to be 12 Members of the National Assembly,...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, with the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. 1 and 2, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u292	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. The Energy Committee is a summary of the report, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u293	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Minister, honourable colleagues! I am reading in summary a report on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020. The first vote. At its regular meeting held on 5 November 2020, the Energy Commission discussed and voted on the above-mentioned bill. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Finance, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and the Nuclear Regulatory Agency. Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy, presented the draft budget for the ministry she runs next year, which provides revenue worth 171,768.0 thousand. BGN, with revenues increased by 20 350,0 thousand. lv. As compared to 2020 The planned costs amount to 73 724.0 thousand. BGN, or the decrease compared to last year is 7 848.5 thousand. lv. An increase in staff costs is envisaged by 801.5 thousand BGN. compared to 2020, or planned costs for the period 2021 amounted to 8 688.0 thousand. lv.. An increase in staff funds is envisaged by 10 percent compared to those established for 2020, in implementation of the government's policy to increase incomes. Representatives of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and the Nuclear Regulatory Agency have expressed a positive opinion on the draft budget submitted for next year. After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held and the following results were obtained: 1. Under the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, including the Project of the Supreme Judicial Council under Articles 1 and 2 of the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria, there is no draft of the Supreme Judicial Council under Articles 1 and 2 of the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria and 14 Members of the National Assembly. 2. Under the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, with the opinion of the Council of Ministers under Articles 1 and 2 On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Energy Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, with the opinion of the Council of Ministers under Articles 1 and 2, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u294	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. The next report belongs to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Who reads the report? Yes, Mr. Tashkov. Then follow the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Committee on Defence.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u295	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! I present to your attention a Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government on a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers. At a regular meeting held on 5 November 2020, together with the Committee on Energy, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government discussed a Draft Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020. In the meeting of the Commission took part: Mrs. Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, Mrs. Nadezhda Genova, Director of the Directorate of the Municipal Finances, in the Ministry of Finance, experts from the two ministries and representatives of the Road Infrastructure Agency and the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. On behalf of the importers, the draft was presented by Ms. Nadezhda Genova, who presented to the MPs information on the general framework of the budget, the forecasts of the three-year budget forecast and paid detailed attention to the forecasts of the draft in its part about the relations between the central budget and the budgets of the municipalities in general and in individual functions. The Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021 provides for a general subsidy for the activities delegated by the State 4 332 483.6 thousand. BGN, transfers for local activities including total matching subsidy 329 426,0 thousand lv. and transfer for winter maintenance and snow cleaning of municipal roads 48 228.1 thousand. BGN, target subsidy for capital expenditure 224 110,2 thousand lv. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Petya Avramova presented to the Commission the draft Ministry budget and information on the funds provided for in the project on the main policies, programmes and activities carried out by the Ministry. The Minister paid attention to the funds provided for in the Project for the implementation of the activities of the Road Infrastructure Agency, the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre Agency and the National Building Control Directorate. The opinion of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria received by the Commission took into account the positive increase in funds for municipalities compared to the 2020 budget, while proposals were made to further increase transfers in certain activities. The reasons and the specific amount of additional funds needed for municipalities are detailed in the minutes of the consultations on the Draft Law signed between the Minister of Finance and the Association and a detailed argument has been made on the need to increase the funds. In the course of the discussion were raised questions related to the proceeds and expected revenues from tolls, the provision of funds for the program for renovation of residential buildings, for water treatment plants in the settlements and others to which the representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Road Infrastructure Agency responded. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government: there are no 16 votes held by the National Assembly for 2021, No 002-01-59, including the draft of the Supreme Judicial Council under Articles 1 and 2, not to be adopted in the first vote; and with 9 votes for the National Assembly, 7 votes against the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for the year 2021, No 002-01-59, with the opinion of the Council of Ministers on the Project of the Supreme Judicial Council under Articles 1 and 2, to be adopted at the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u296	Thank you, Mr. Tashkov. The summary of the Committee on Foreign Policy Report. The following two reports belong to the Defence Committee and to the Internal Security and Public Order Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u297	Dear Mr. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Foreign Policy on Draft Law No 002-01-59, for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020. At a regular meeting held on 4 November 2020, the Committee on Foreign Policy of the National Assembly examined the Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021 in its part for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The draft budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for 2021 was presented by Mr. Ivan Naydenov. Mrs. Maria Ivanova, Head of Department at the Department of State Expenditures and Finance, briefed the Commission on the general framework and priorities of budget 2021. For the purposes of programming budgeting and given the administrative functional distribution in the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in order to achieve greater accountability, eleven programmes are formulated, distributed in three policies: Within these policies, eleven programmes have been allocated to systematize tasks and objectives before the diplomatic service. The Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021 defines: revenue, expenditure, transfers and subsidies from the central budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Compared to budget 2020, own revenues were reduced by 10 109 800 BGN, the cost ceiling was increased by 9 311 400 BGN and the subsidy was increased by 19 421 200 BGN. The main parameters in the draft budget for 2021 in its part for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are as follows: - own revenues amount to BGN 46 679 200.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - the costs are 150 557 900 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - The subsidy amounts to 103 878 700 BGN. The allocation of expenditure on policies and budgetary programmes for 2021 shall be confirmed as follows: - Policy on the development of an effective diplomatic service - BGN 128 447 700 Compared to the budget for 2020, the increase is 8 901 300 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Public Diplomacy Policy - BGN 1 189 500 Compared to the 2020 budget, the increase is 249 600 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - policy in the field of active bilateral and multilateral diplomacy - BGN 20 920 500 Compared to the 2020 budget, the increase is 160 500 BGN. The maximum costs that can be borne in 2021 and the maximum costs obligations that can be incurred in 2021 by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which amount to BGN 111 945 600, shall be confirmed. Targeted current and capital transfers to abroad for official development aid and humanitarian aid totaling BGN 6 000 000, which cannot be spent for other purposes, and no more than 5% of these funds can be spent to administer the aid. Work should continue between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Finance to suspend the functioning model at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to reduce the left-wing remuneration of long-term seconded personnel. On the basis of the discussion held and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 10 votes in favour, 3 votes in opposition and without abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote Draft No 002-01-59, for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u298	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. The next summary of the report belongs to the Defence Committee. Mr. Toshev, come in. The following two reports belong to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and to the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Mr. Toshev, don't mess with me. Quickly come here and read the résumé.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u299	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, honourable Members! At a meeting held on 5 November 2020, the Defence Committee discussed the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020. The meeting was attended by Deputy Minister of Defence Anatoly Velichkov and Marusya Garbacheva. The opinion of the Ministry of Defence was presented by Deputy Minister Velichkov, who expressed satisfaction with the budget of the Ministry of Defence and the additional funds allocated in the central budget. It is positive that, along with the resources for staff, capital expenditures are minimally increasing, which, in the difficult circumstances of overcoming the effects of the CIVID-19 pandemic, provides stability for the implementation of smaller modernisation projects from the Ministry of Defence's portfolio. It is particularly important that on the basis of the annual estimates in the central budget funds are provided for the modernisation projects of the Air Force, the Navy and the Land Forces in their part for 2021. The representative of the Ministry of Finance Ms. Marusya Garbacheva noted the general social focus of the budget and the priority funding of the defence together with education, health, social policy for maintaining employment, measures for sustainability of social protection systems and pension policy. The introduction of NATO methodology has been confirmed and the increased funds on the specific parameters of the defence budget have been mentioned. People's representatives Kolyo Milev, Valentin Radev, Nikolay Tsonkov, Simeon Simeonov, Hristo Gabzhev, Plamen Manushev and Milen Mihov took part in the debates. After the discussion was concluded, 17 MPs took part in the vote: with 10 votes for the defence, 6 against the defence committee and 1 abstention, adopted the following opinion: He proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u300	Thank you, dear Mr. Toshev. You've come very well out of the seven. The next Internal Security and Public Order Committee summary. The next two reports following this report, the Committee on Agriculture and Food and the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u301	♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020. At its regular meeting held on 4 November 2020, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed a Draft Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021. The meeting was attended by Mr. Hristo Terziyski, Minister of the Interior, Mrs. Boryana Tsvetkova, Director of the Directorate of Planning and Budget Management at the Ministry of the Interior; Mr. Vladimir Petrov, Director of the Directorate of State Expenditure at the Ministry of Finance. The bill was presented by Minister Hristo Terziyski. The total revenue foreseen under the budget of the Ministry of Interior for 2021 amounts to 232 000,0 thousand. lv. Of the planned current expenditure under the Draft Budget of the Ministry of Interior for 2021 1,735,836,4 thousand. lv. are estimated for staff, which is an increase of 204 397.9 thousand. lv. in comparison with 2020 The determined capital costs for 2021 amounted to 14 947,0 thousand. lv. The policy on the fight against crime and the protection of public order provides for funds of 1 092 263,7 thousand. lv. versus 967 441.2 thousand. lv. for 2020 The policy on border protection and control of migration processes provides for an amount of 263 576,2 thousand. lv. For fire safety policy and protection of the population in emergency situations, funds of 319 221.2 thousand are provided. lv. The management and development policy of the Ministry of Internal Affairs provides for funds of 197 712,3 thousand. lv. As regards the budget of the Commission for the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for 2021, total expenditure of 4 348,6 thousand has been provided. lv. As regards the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data, the Bill provides for revenue of 300,0 thousand. lv. and costs of 3 220,5 thousand. lv. The State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021 provides for 48 849.6 thousand for the activities of the State Agency. BGN, including current expenditure of 21 711,2 thousand lv. After closing the discussion, which took part the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Krasimir Tsipov, Manoil Manev and Valentin Radev, the following results were voted on: 1. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, including the Project of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020: no..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, with the Opinion of the Council of Ministers on Art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020:......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u302	You have the floor for the Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Food, Mrs. Belova. Then are the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and the Committee on Education and Science.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u303	♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 4 November 2020, discussing the quoted bill. The main parameters of the bill in the part of the agricultural holding are as follows: According to the draft budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry for 2021, the planned revenue amounts to 149,4 million. lv. The proposed cost ceiling is 243.5 million. lv. According to the State Fund's budget for 2021, the planned revenue amounts to around 3.5 million. lv. The Fund's expenditure ceiling is around 370.9 million. lv. Under the common agricultural policy, 1 billion will be used under the single area payment scheme for direct payments. The Commission 900,000. lv. European funds. The second pillar of the common agricultural policy for rural development provides for 1 billion. 123 million. Three hundred thousand. BGN 922 million Three hundred thousand. lv. European funds. According to the Common Fisheries Policy, the funds are 38.4 million. lv. Following the discussion, the Committee on Agriculture and Food: - without votes for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020, including the Draft of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. - with 10 votes for the Republic of Bulgaria, 6 against, and without abstention, propose to the National Assembly to support a first vote Draft on the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020, with the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u304	Thank you, Mrs. Belova. Summary of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Report. Mrs. Angelova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u305	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy for the First Voting of the Draft State Budget Act of Bulgaria for 2021, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 5 November 2020, together with the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Health, examined and discussed the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021. The priorities only in the social sector are as follows: It's income policy. The updated medium-term budget forecast for the period 2021 In 2021, year-round funds are planned to ensure the 30% increase from 1 August 2020 of staff costs for organ and administration systems entrusted with pandemic management activities and the consequences of COVID-19, including first-line personnel who were included in the government's socio-economic package. Budget 2021 provides for an increase of 10% in salaries and salaries of staff employed by employment and service, including insurance contributions for all entities not covered by the government's socio-economic measures package. The priorities in social policy focus mainly on overcoming the socio-economic consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic, related to maintaining employment, increasing employability and reducing unemployment, the sustainability of social protection systems and social inclusion with a focus on the most vulnerable groups in society. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. - 10.0 million. lv. for active labour market policies that will be primarily aimed at training unemployed persons to acquire - 300 million. lv. for the continuation of the measure for the maintenance of jobs; - 297,3 million. lv. to increase funds for short-term benefits and aid; - 73.0 million. lv. for targeted assistance to families with children up to the age of 14, where parents cannot carry out remote work from home and are not able to take paid leave under declared emergency or declared emergency epidemic situation; - 390.0 million. lv. for the removal of the income criterion for access to monthly child care aid to the completion of secondary education under the Family Aid Act for children; - 10.0 million. lv. for heating aid referred to in points (a) and (b) of the first subparagraph of paragraph 1 of this Article; - 21.4 million. lv. updating financial support for disabled persons under the Disabilities Act; - 122.0 million. lv. for the Personal Aid Mechanism under the Personal Aid Act; - 79,7 million. lv. for a social service, assistive support, as delegated by the State activity; - 47,0 million. lv. for one-off financial support for food, amounting to 120 BGN annual pensioners, on whom the pension or the sum of pensions together with the supplements and the compensation to them is from BGN 300,01. up to BGN 369, including Upon completion of the discussion, a vote with results shall be held: 1. Under the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, including the Project of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020: no..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, with the Opinion of the Council of Ministers on Art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020: 11 votes for the Council of Ministers, 7 votes against the Council of Ministers, without abstention. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, with the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u306	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Summary of the Report of the Committee on Education and Science.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u307	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Education and Science on a Draft Law on the State Budget Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020. At its regular meeting held on 4 November 2020, the Committee on Education and Science examined the Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020. The opinions submitted to the Committee on Education and Science by the Syndicate of Bulgarian Teachers and by the employers' organizations in the secondary education system express support for funding measures. They propose to allocate targeted funds to ensure the purchase of disinfectants and for an air cleaning system for offices and common premises of educational institutions. The Syndicate proposes to raise funds for delegated activities in education by 150 million. lv. In his opinion, the National Branch Syndicate "High Education and Science" expresses its full support. The Sofia University of St. Kliment Ohridski (Bulgarian Academy of Sciences) and Bulgarian Academy of Sciences insist that higher schools and BAS be excluded from the limitation on the implementation of costs and transfers in the amount of 95 per cent provided for in the Bill. The total estimated cost of education for 2021 is 5 642,3 million. BGN, which represents 4.5% of gross domestic product (vs. 4,823.5 million). lv. for 2020, the growth of education expenditure compared to 2020 amounted to 818.9 million. BGN, of which 729.1 million lv. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. lv. are at the expense of EU funds. In the field of higher education, priority for 2021 is to increase remuneration for the lowest academic positions. The total amount of transfers provided for by the Ministry of Education's budget to state universities amounted to 592.7 million. lv. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. lv. After the discussion was concluded and a vote was held with results: 13 votes for the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, 4 votes for the Republic of Bulgaria for the year 2021, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u308	Thank you. The summary of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u309	Honourable Mr. Chairman, Honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports At its regular meeting, held on 4 November 2020, discussed and discussed the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020. The meeting was attended by Mr. Krasen Kralev, Minister of Youth and Sports, Mrs. Zoya Kasserova, State Expert at the Ministry of Finance, Mrs. Silvana Perozova, Director at the Ministry of Youth and Sports. Mr. Krasen Kralev presented the budget in the field of youth and sport policies. As a representative of the sector, I would like to note with great satisfaction that, in implementing the amendments adopted to the Gambling Act in the current year, for the first time in the draft budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sport for 2021, a transfer of 3.4 million has been envisaged. lv. for activities financed by the National Fund of Culture, which are not included in the statement of expenditure under the Ministry's programmes. The following discussion was attended by the MPs Vesela Lecheva, Ivan Chenchev, Slavcho Atanasov and Stefan Apostolov, forming two groups of opinions. Ms. Lecheva and Mr. Chenchev said they will not support the budget 2021 of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, expressing doubts about its effectiveness given the way the funds are distributed under policies. MPs Slavcho Atanasov and Stefan Apostolov expressed their support, saying that budget 2021 is increasing by 18% compared to 2020 and marked as a positive policy the double increase in funds directed directly towards sports clubs. As a result of the discussion and on the basis of the 11-vote vote held, 4-votes against...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u310	Thank you, Mr. Velev. From the Health Committee? Mrs. Daritkova, you have the floor. The Committee on Environment and Waters and the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications shall then follow.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u311	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020. At a joint meeting of the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and the Committee on Health, held on 5 November 2020, the Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021 was reviewed and discussed. The meeting was attended by the Minister of Finance Mr. Kiril Ananiev; representatives of the Ministry of Finance; trade unions; employers; and the word organizations in the field of health. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by Mr. Kiril Ananiev, who briefed the MPs on the main financial parameters set out in the Draft Budget of the State for 2021. The budget of the Ministry of Health for 2021 provides additional funds to increase the remuneration of staff in the bodies of the Ministry of Health and the National Health Insurance Fund, including for overtime of the authorities carrying out epidemiological control, for subsidies to hospital care facilities for medical activities outside the scope of compulsory health insurance, including for maintaining the readiness of clinics/compartments for infectious diseases, mental illness, active tuberculosis, as well as for medical institutions in remote and difficult areas to provide medical assistance for the epidemic spread of infectious diseases, for the introduction of NAT technology for the diagnosis of donated blood for the purpose of providing quality blood products, for health insurance payments with a view to providing accessible, quality and timely medical assistance to health insured persons, for the provision of vaccines and medicinal products for the treatment of COVID-19, for the establishment of the National Health Information System through the use of new technologies in the field of electronic health care, as well as for the provision of the material base of medical institutions and for the establishment of the National Paediatric Hospital. The discussion was attended by representatives of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and the Confederation of Labour "Supporta" who informed the MPs that in the context of the growing pandemic of COVID-19 some changes should be made to the draft budget to respond to the difficult situation in the country. It was pointed out that the specific proposals of the two organisations are detailed in their written opinions, expressing hope that they will be discussed and adopted between the first and second votes of the Bill. After the discussion was closed, a vote was taken on the following results: 1. Under the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, including the Project of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020:...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, with the Opinion of the Council of Ministers on Art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020:...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the discussion and the vote on the above results, the Committee on Health suggests to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, with the opinion of the Council of Ministers on Art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 October 2020
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u312	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. The next report is from the Committee on Environment and Water. It follows the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Committee on Culture and Media.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u313	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020. At a joint meeting held on 5 November 2020, the Committee on Environment and Water and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020. The main priorities of budget 2021 in the part concerning environmental policies were presented by Minister Dimitrov. He pointed out the main parameters for the Ministry of Environment and Water: expected revenues BGN, expenditures - 64,6 million lv. The Minister also presented the environmental management budget of the enterprise, which for 2021 is within 70 million. The largest share of expenditure in the sector is BGN 40,15 million. lv. For the waste management sector 14.1 million are planned. lv. The estimated amount of payments under the Operational Programme is 549 million. lv. According to the bill the MPs Atanas Kostadinov, Ercan Ebatin, Dzhevdet Chakarov, Rumen Georgiev and Ivelina Vassileva were involved. Following the end of the discussion and the vote held, the Committee on Environment and Water with: 11 votes in favour, 8 votes in favour, without abstention, expressed the following opinion: The Commission supports the Draft Law and its indicators regarding the protection of the environment and water and proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u314	Thank you, Mrs. Lurtova. Next is the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Mr. Letifov, you have the floor. The two summaries of reports from the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Interaction with non-governmental organisations and citizens' complaints follow thereafter.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u315	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 4 November 2020, a Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021 was discussed, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020. The meeting was attended by Mr. Ivan Markov, Secretary General of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mr. Ivan Dimitrov, Chairman of the Communications Regulation Commission, Mr. Kiril Doychinov, Secretary General of the State Agency Electronic Governance and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and of trade union organizations. The Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021 was presented to the members of the committee by Mr. Ivan Markov. The estimated own revenue under the budget of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications lv. for 2021 In 2021 the Ministry plans to spend, transfer and coordinate 2 587 492.4 thousand. lv. for programmes in the field of transport, information technology and communications. The total cost represents a significant proportion of capital expenditure for large investment projects, as well as projects under the Connectivity Mechanism in Europe. Of the total cost for 2021 2 587 492,4 thousand. lv. 1 522 576 thousand is envisaged. lv. to be provided in the accounts of the European Union funds and other international programmes and contracts to which the accounts regime for the European Union funds 734 46.4 thousand applies. lv. from the central budget, including damages and interest on state investment loans 49,575,4 thousand. lv.; 330,870 thousand. lv. from the Ministry's budget. The Ministry's budget for the period 2022 is addressed in its programming format to the Ministry's budget for the construction of railway, water and air infrastructure, as well as the subsidies to the State-owned company National Railway Infrastructure. The necessary funds for capital transfer from the state budget for the State budget for the Bulgarian National Railway Agency are read on the basis of the need to renew the rolling stock and in accordance with the strategic objectives for the purchase of new rolling stock. The funds for capital transfers for 2021 are planned to amount to 109 000 thousand. BGN, i.e. a reduction of 30 000 thousand. lv. As compared to 2020 For 2022, capital transfers are envisaged to be 49 000 thousand. lv. and for 2023 In addition, the Commission notes that the Commission's assessment of the compatibility of the measure with the internal market does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the In connection with the obligation of the Bulgarian Post Office to perform a service of general economic interest in the distribution of periodical printing, with wholesale and retail concessions, directly or on a subscription basis on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria in the Draft Law on the State Budget for 2021, funds of 25 032 thousand are planned. lv. During the meeting were presented and discussed the draft budgets for 2021 of the Communications Regulation Commission and the State Agency. Following the vote, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 9 votes in favour and 7 votes in favour of the National Assembly proposed to adopt a Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020. This was a summary of the Report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u316	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. Report of the Committee on Culture and Media. Following is the Report of the Commission on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Complaints of Citizens and the Committee on Religions and Human Rights.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u317	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At a regular meeting held on 5 November 2020, the Culture and Media Officer discussed the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020. Representatives of the Ministry of Culture, Ministry of Finance, Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, Bulgarian National Radio and Bulgarian National Television participated in the discussion. During the discussion the MPs Ivan Chenchev, Evgeni Budinov, Kalin Velev, Emilia Milkova and Toma Bikov were involved. People's representative Kalin Velev and Emilia Milkova announced that they will propose to increase the standard of state-sponsored activities with natural and value indicators in 2021 in the part concerning the financing of regional libraries. After the discussion was concluded, a vote with the following results was held: 1. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, including the Project of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. 1 and 2: no votes............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 2. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, with the Opinion of the Council of Ministers on Art. 1 and 2: 10 votes.... 5 votes against............................................................................................................................................................ On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Culture and Media proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, with the Opinion of the Council of Ministers on Art. 1 and 2, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u318	Thank you, Mr. Velev. That's a good performance. The Committee on Synergy with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints Mrs. Dobreva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u319	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020. At its regular meeting, held on 5 November 2020, the Commission on Interaction with NGOs and Citizens' Complaints examined the Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mrs. Pavleta Torleva. The State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021 is accompanied by the updated medium-term budgetary forecast for the period 2021. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. BGN, which represents 64,8 million. lv. more than those established in 2020. The additional funds are related to the provision of resources to limit the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as to the envisaged legislative commitments. After the discussion, the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints with 8 votes, 3 votes against and without abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u320	Thank you, Mrs. Dobreva. The Committee on Religions and Human Rights Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u321	Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister! Mr. Chairman, thank you. ♪ I can't believe on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020. At a regular meeting held on 5 November 2020, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights discussed a Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Ivaylo Tanev, Senior Expert at the Department of State Expenditures and Associate Professor Dr. Diana Kovacheva "Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria," Associate Professor Dr. Baki Huseinov "Deputy Chairman of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination," and Mrs. Petya Parvanova "President of the State Agency for Refugees at the Council of Ministers." On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mr. Ivaylo Tanev, who introduced the MPs to the general framework and priorities in budget 2021, focused on the sectors of social policy and income policy, pension policy, education, health and defence. For the institution Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria Associate Professor Kovacheva expressed his support for the bill in the part of "Ombudsman" and presented a justification for the need for additional budget funds for the effective functioning of the institution. The Ombudsman stressed that he had an understanding of the difficult financial situation caused by the exceptional situation of work in the conditions of a pandemic and expects budgetary resources to be allocated if possible. For the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, Associate Professor Huseinov pointed out that the funds at stake are not sufficient for the effective functioning of the Commission as an independent body for prevention, control and protection against discrimination. Additional funding is needed to open new regional offices in the country. At the State Agency for Refugees at the Council of Ministers, Mrs. Parvanova noted that the envisaged budget for 2021 and the approved funds under projects and grant agreements from the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund enable the Agency to carry out its functions in the field of international protection. The granted subsidy for religions registered under the Religions Act amounts to BGN 38 640 000. With 5 300,000 leva. more than budget 2020. I would just like to point out that money has been allocated, in this amount, of course, BGN 600,000. for the Rila Monastery, BGN 200 000 for the Troyan Monastery and BGN 200,000 for the Bachkovo Monastery. You know these are monuments of national and global importance. Following the debates held, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights with 9 votes in favour of the Council of Ministers and 4 votes in abstentions proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u322	Thank you, dear Mr. Velchev. Following is the Commission report on the fight against corruption, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics. Mr. Yachev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u323	Mrs. Chairman! I'll give you a brief summary of: ♪ I can't believe of the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Commission on a Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020. The Committee on the Fight against Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics at its regular meeting held on 5 November 2020 examined the Draft State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, together with the updated medium-term budgetary forecast for the period 2021 - 2023, representing reasons for the bill, and the Opinion of the Council of Ministers on the Draft Budget of the judiciary for 2021. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Finance: Mrs. Rositsa Velkova Deputy Minister, and the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property: Mr. Anton Slavchev Vice-President. The Ministry of Finance pointed out that the draft budget follows the three-year budget forecast adopted previously and the updated budget forecast for 2021 and the key objectives will be the preservation of fiscal sustainability and the implementation of a consistent, transparent and balanced fiscal policy, which is a reliable basis for sustainability of the budgetary framework, for rapid recovery and return on the path of economic growth and activity, with a view to the adverse impact of the epidemiological situation linked to the spread of COVID-19 and its limitation. Mrs. Velkova presented the parameters set in the Commission's budget for countering corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. With the draft budget are estimated costs of 23 400 700 BGN, of which for current expenditure 21 680 700 BGN, of them for staff/pays. s 16 984 000 BGN.; for capital expenditure intended for the acquisition of fixed assets and major repairs The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 1 million. 544 thousand. lv. with a view to 10% increase in staff funds, which includes remuneration, social security and other remuneration not only for salaries, which is a plus for the increase made in 2020. Mr. Anton Slavchev expressed satisfaction with the so presented draft budget of KKCONPI, pointing out that the planned financial indicators for KKCONPI concerning the financing of the implementation of the functions assigned to it in countering corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, and the imposition of sanctions and other measures in the event of an established conflict of interest, constitute a serious guarantor for the effective and full implementation of their activities next year. After the discussion and voting, the Committee on the Fight against Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics: with 5 votes in favour, without abstention and 2 votes in opposition, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Draft State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020, together with the updated draft budget forecast for the period 2020 - 2023, representing reasons for the Law, taking into account the opinion of the Council of Ministers on the draft budget of the judiciary for 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u324	Thank you, dear Mr. Yachev. Report of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds Mr. Petrov. It's a very extensive report. I hope you'll present it in a summary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u325	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds on a Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020. At a joint meeting held on 5 November 2020, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds and the Committee on Environment and Waters examined the Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers. In view of the specific nature of its work, the Commission on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examines the parameters of the draft state budget for 2021 concerning the contribution of the Republic of Bulgaria to the European Union budget, as well as the planned revenue and expenditure under the European Union funds. Bulgaria's contribution to the European Union budget is projected to be 1 462.6 million for 2021. BGN, with this amount subject to possible adjustment in view of the non-final decision-making under the multiannual financial framework of the European Union. The European Union's revenue, aid and donations are intended for the State Fund....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The National Fund in its revenue section of the European Union Fund account for 2021 is intended to enter 3,021.9 million. lv. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to studies, meetings, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives of the programme and to the achievement of the objectives of the programme. BGN, or 2.3% of gross domestic product. In the State Fund, the revenues (without the proceeds) of the fund account are planned to be 699.7 million. BGN and the costs to be 913.1 million. lv. The common agricultural policy provides for 1 604.9 million to be used under the first pillar. BGN, and under the second pillar in which the funds for rural areas enter, 1 123.3 million is envisaged. BGN 922,3 million lv. are funds from the European Union. The Fishery programme is planned to include 38.4 million. BGN, of which 30.4 million lv. will be from the European Union. For 2021, the planned revenue on other accounts for EU funds and funds under other international programmes is intended to be 199,6 million. lv. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds proposed by 3 votes for the European Parliament and 2 votes against the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u326	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. And now the Commission's report on the control of the security services, the implementation and use of special intelligence and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u327	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020. At its meeting held on 5 November 2020, the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act examined the Draft State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance and heads of the security services. The State Budget Bill outlines the main parameters, objectives and priorities in it. The parameters of the expenditure for the period 2021 are in line with the budget opportunities for financing policies and the prospects for public sphere development, as well as the CIVID-19 pandemic and its economic consequences. The Head of the Security Services briefed the Commission on their draft budget for 2021 and the updated forecast for 2022. As a result of the discussion and the subsequent vote, the Commission, with 2 votes for the Republic of Bulgaria, 1 vote against the Council of Ministers, proposed that the National Assembly adopt a Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u328	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Next is the Report of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad. Here you go, Mrs. Milkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u329	Madam President, honourable Members, I will present a brief summary of the Report of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad. ♪ I can't believe on a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2012, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020. At its meeting held on 4 November 2019, the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad discussed a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021 in its part on the policies towards Bulgarians abroad. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Culture, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Education and Science, Ministry of Finance, representatives of the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad. Mr. Ivaylo Tanev, Chief Expert at the Ministry of Finance Directorate, said that the budget for 2021 was developed under the conditions of a cod pandemic. In its main parameters it is not very different from last year's budget, seeking stability and increase in incomes in all budgetary organisations. The draft budget of the Ministry of Culture was presented by Deputy Minister Rumen Dimitrov, who emphasized that it creates extremely good conditions for the realization of the cultural policy of the Ministry. The draft budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was presented by the Permanent Secretary Mr. Ivan Naydenov, who announced that there was an increase of slightly more than 9 million. lv. The draft budget for 2021 of the Ministry of Education and Science was presented by the President of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad. Mrs. Elena Pesheva, she emphasized that the budget was with 963 700 BGN. increased compared to the previous year, the largest feather is for Bulgarian state and Sunday schools abroad. In addition, there is an increase in funds under the National Program "Born language and culture abroad." Mr. Dimitar Vladimirov from the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad informed that the draft budget of the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad is unchanged, with the exception of a 10% increase in the fund. After the discussion was concluded, there was a vote, which received the following results: 11 votes for...... 4 votes against............................................................................................................. and 1 vote............................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u330	Thank you, dear Mrs. Milkova. The latest report today belongs to the Commission for Monitoring Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u331	Dear Madam President, Members of Parliament, Dear Ministers, I present to your attention ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020. At its extraordinary meeting held on 3 November 2020, the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling discussed and voted on a Draft Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 002-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Finance: Ms. Rositsa Velkova Deputy Minister and Mrs. Lyudmila Petkova Director of the Tax Policy Directorate. The general framework and priorities of the Draft Budget 2021 were presented by Mrs. Rositsa Velkova, who briefed the members of the Commission on the main policies in the portfolio. The main indicators showed a trend of a nominal increase in both revenue and expenditure, provided that costs related to overcoming the negative effects of the pandemic were excluded. Although the parameters of the expenditure part of the budget exceed 40% of the rule of art. 28, para. 1 of the Public Finance Act, after eliminating the effect of one-off costs for COVID-19 measures, they are within the limit. As regards revenues, this forecast shows a growth in nominal terms for the entire three-year period. As a relative share of GDP, they show dynamics dictated by different circumstances affecting tax revenues for 2020 compared to 2019 respectively, are declining, mainly due to the revision of 2020, reflecting the negative effect on tax revenues from the economic downturn resulting from the outbreak of the pandemic, and also the effect of non-compliance with certain non-tax revenues and charges. In terms of costs, trends are for a reduction in the middle of the plan period, both in nominal terms and as a share of GDP. The increase of expenditure in the project for 2021 compared to the revised evaluation for 2020. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, is due to both the COVID-19 measures and the costs of other priority policies of the government in different areas. With this base and with the existing uncertainty and risks, the forecasts for the relative share of expenditure to GDP for 2021 are 42,2%, bearing in mind that the costs directly related to overcoming the effects of the epidemic are included here. After the discussion, a vote was held on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, which ended with the following results:.......................................................................... 7 votes...................................................................................................................................................................... As a result of the vote, the Committee for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 002-01-59, submitted on 29 October 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u332	Thank you. Colleagues, this was the last report. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u333	Dear Madam President, Mrs Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Minister, Mrs Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! All mechanisms and interconnections in the three budgets do not work and are cut off. An example of this is the freezing of maximum insurance income, despite the growth of the maximum pension amount. Another example are the rules and mechanisms for determining the main budgetary relations with municipalities. So what if there are rules? They are not respected and these rules and mechanisms are violated by the executive power in the face of Borisov. It, by decrees of the Council of Ministers, amends the Budget Act contrary to the texts of the Constitution. Historically, the struggle to validate parliamentaryism goes through the seizure of powers by the executive of the instruments for the distribution of state money. This, with the decrees of the Council of Ministers, is proof that we are not a parliamentary republic, but a Prime Minister's Republic. Return the rule that budget surpluses should be allocated by Parliament's decisions. Until then, the texts in the State Budget Act will be just a good wish. For these reasons, we will not support the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u334	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? I can't see. To make a statement, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u335	Dear Madam President, dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Minister, colleagues! In a time of unprecedented health crisis in recent decades, a complicated epidemic situation, a aggravated economic situation not only in Bulgaria, not only in Europe but in the whole world, we are discussing and will vote on the budget for 2021 of the Republic of Bulgaria. In recent months, topic number one is health, and immediately after that comes the issue of money, about funding, to help people, businesses, the economy, the health system, so that it is prepared. Be prepared to help and support each and every one, whether provided or not, whether left or right, no matter what color his understandings are. Colleagues, this budget is a colorless budget. This is a budget aimed entirely at people with priorities: income, health care, pension policy, education and defence. The budget doesn't give money aimlessly. He did not aim to win folk love, as some said. Let's not underestimate the budget. A budget couldn't have done that. This is a reasonable budget no different than the budgets for next year of other European countries in a crisis situation that we are currently in. The budget has specific objectives, policies that will help us get the state through this pandemic, get out of it in a relatively good condition and get back on our feet as soon as possible. We've heard a lot of accusations about the election budget. No, he's post-election, anti-pandemic. This budget, as a colleague before me said on the IPO budget, is a budget of the promises that have been fulfilled, but I would also add the agreements that have been met. There's no increase in taxes for business and people. Already in 2017 a request was made to reach the minimum salary of 650 BGN, and gradually, year after year we walk in this direction. This is the last budget for this term and the goal is achieved. The minimum salary is 650 BGN. This year again, once again, teachers' salaries increase. We have made a request that they will be doubled and by 17% increase this year we achieve double. Four years ago, we were talking about 300 leva. The minimum pension is set in the budget for 2021. The ceiling of the pensions is increased from BGN 1200. At BGN 1440. All pensioners by March will receive a supplement of 50 BGN. to their pensions. An annual increase in the incomes of employees in the public sector by 10% is something that we continue to carry out, as in previous years. It is also not new, it is also not election, but a consistent policy on people's incomes. For 2021, in relation to the pandemic, there is a 30% increase in the salaries of people on the first line to combat the coronavirus. They deserve this increase. This is not an election decision. I think it's a short memory, or maybe it's more comfortable that way. There's nothing true about this budget being pre-election. It is an expression, again I say, of a consistent policy that we proposed to the Bulgarians four years ago. They believed us, supported us. We continue to keep these promises. Today, more than ever, this is necessary because when there is a decline in investment and consumption due to the global crisis, which are the main drivers of gross domestic product, the increase in income is a proactive and countercyclical policy by the government, and we see it being implemented in a number of European countries. Of course, one of the main priorities is taking measures to limit the coronavirus. Over 3 billion. lv. are set in this respect in the budget. Reforms in education are included - 0.4% of gross domestic product, or 820 million. lv. growth in the budget for education, more than 580 million additional for healthcare, this is once again 0.4% of gross domestic product, we recall the measures for the business that have been taken, VAT from 20% to 9% for certain goods and services by the end of 2021, measure 60/ 40, state subsidy in tourism, the programmes of the Ministry of Economy, the operations that the Bulgarian Development Bank is undertaking. Nevertheless, we are hearing further accusations against the budget. Just a few months ago known and unknown names called for more spending: grants, loans, free funding, more money to be given, more and more measures to pour out unlimited financial resources to combat the coronavirus. And these same people are now saying, "Why are you giving?" Is there, or is there not, for people? Or is there just a debate going on and always someone against it? We were accused of the debt in the budget enslaving our children. They were going to pay our loans. This is obviously the place to say that debt taken can be used to repay deficits, to maintain the fiscal reserve, as a buffer in difficult situations, for net fiscal payments on current debt during the year. In this regard, let us not manipulate society by instilling the feeling that debt is being taken to abuse it in some way. You've all seen some graphs that were circulating in space, and I'm going to show them again. These graphics are eloquent.. Bulgaria has the second lowest debt in the European Union after Estonia. Seventy-seven percent is the debt of the member states of the European Union and the debt of those in the Eurozone is 84%. In this case, there is no debt spiral. Bulgaria is 25.6% in 2021 below half of the permitted size under the Maastricht convergence criterion of 60% of gross domestic product. And another graph I'm going to show you is the deficit graph, and here we are at the lowest. A deficit of 3.9% is planned for 2021 in relation to the pandemic. And here the European Commission made a derogation. That is, if we calculate the deficit by subtracting the costs of dealing with the pandemic, which amount to about 2.5% deficit, we are left with a deficit of a percentage and a half compared to other countries, where even this cost can be removed, the deficit is many times greater than ours. And just to note that according to data from the autumn economic forecast of the European Commission Bulgaria will be the only country in the European Union with a deficit of less than 3%, and in fact the deficit of three quarters of the countries in the European Union will be more than 6%, in France, Italy, Belgium, Spain, Romania will be more than 10%. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, the medium-term budget forecast for the three-year period shows that for 2022 and 2023, we are planning to begin gradually returning to the old levels before the crisis, to a lower deficit of a percentage and a half to two percent. To the very current question who will implement the next budget, the answer is we will execute it until the regular elections in March, and then if people again vote on us. The budget shall have sufficient resources to implement the measures within the following year as foreseen. The budget is completely viable. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u336	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov, a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u337	Mrs. Chairman! My speech will be brief and it is related to the way the revenue is budgeted, because on a proposal and at a decision of the Prime Minister you proposed, at least you announced that you would propose that the VAT Act should be taxed with 9% rate.. as it is charged for the consumption of the restaurant's local consumption. How do you budget this revenue part, based on what law, will there be an amendment to the Law between first and second readings, because there must be a first, regulatory basis on which to budget revenue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u338	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Second line? I can't see. Mrs. Angelova, for the back? You're not gonna make a douche. Mrs. Shevked, come in for a statement, then Mr. Sabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u339	Dear Madam President, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, honourable Members! We of the DPS reaffirm once again that this budget will lead to the end of the financial stability of the state. The figures set out in the budget do not show policies in the long term. As of next year, the government and the Finance Ministry have foreseen that Bulgaria's gross domestic product will grow by 4% nominally compared to 2019, while social payments increase by 28%, which in itself speaks of unreasonable treatment because it is not comparable to this, even with the possible expectation of growth of the economy. If the aim is to increase consumption, leading to growth in the economy, efforts should, in the long term, be directed towards a change in tax policy, namely a reduction or delay in payments on certain taxes, rather than an increase in costs. The costs which can hardly be defined as measures to address the consequences of the pandemic represent 54% of the budget, while those which are intended to support the business are within 18% of the total cost, with the sole measure provided for the measure 60/40 or around 300 million. lv. from bets in the budget. We of the DPS believe that this measure for 2021, as well as for subsequent years, should be 80/20, even 100/0 for some of the most affected industries. We can assume that assuming new debt and expected levels, which it will reach in 2023, amounting to 29.4% of gross domestic product, is, of course, a poor strategy that has been undertaken, as long as this debt is used to increase the competitiveness and potential of the Bulgarian economy in the long term through reforms. We of the DPS are of the opinion that the short-term budget forecast implies short-sightedness in terms of debt, which will rather be a burden on a fissure, and in the event of a decrease in revenue, the following years should also be made significant changes in tax policy and, in particular, increasing its burden on citizens and, in particular, on business, which is from our point of view, the......................................... to care for the public sector.................................................................................... Another surprise for us is the expected growth of final consumption of 1% in real terms. Indeed, during the first six months of the year, there was a growth of 0.6% on an annual basis, which is the result of an increase of 3.7% in the first quarter, but we also have a decrease of 2.2% on an annual basis in the second quarter. In the third quarter, transport and retail trade continued to shrink as communication services increased. By the end of the year, prospects are not essential for improving the situation. Banks are increasingly cautious in lending, and transfers that provide little of the available income to many households and businesses have shrunk almost half. The unrealistic forecast for 2020 also makes macroeconomic expectations for 2021 unrealistic. The expected recovery of the economy can begin at the earliest after the middle of the year, and even the next tourist season is highly questionable, which will inevitably lead to an increase in unemployment, and will have a negative impact on consumption. Without direct support and guaranteeing the investment process, investments will continue to slow down, which further worsens the negative prospects for medium-term development. Foreign trade will also not score a good result. In view of the arguments put forward, we of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, as a responsible opposition party, will not support the proposed budget of the state. Our position has always been clear and clear that this unprincipled cabinet leads the country to the abyss, with budget figures confirming our vision. Thank you. [[Single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u340	Thank you, dear Mrs. Shevked. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Mr. Sabanov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u341	Dear Madam President, dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister, dear Minister, honourable Members! Indeed, this budget is a budget of promises that have been fulfilled, and I think people will understand that. What we, as candidates for MPs from the group of the United Patriarchs, have spoken to the people, is now becoming a fact. And for all these four years, when budgets were adopted and pensions were raised, and incomes with small steps, we talked about this, that by the end of the term we would fulfill our promise of 300 BGN. minimum pension and increase the income of all Bulgarian citizens. Today, when we adopt at first reading the last budget for this mandate, we actually show that we have fulfilled our promises. Of course there will be criticism from the opposition. Soon we talked, we all do politics in this room, what's important to know? The most important thing, my fellow Members, is that there are two things that distinguish government from opposition. These are the votes on the budget and votes on the vote of no confidence in the government. So it is quite normal for the opposition not to like this budget. She, as you know, has not liked any budget so far, always the people who will ruin the state, always the people who are on the brink of the abyss and almost after the start of the new year we will fall into this chasm. As you can see, this has not happened in these years, and as we have also been declared populists, we have achieved our goals in the end. In what way does it matter? Dear Bulgarian citizens, as some of the opposition say, we, together with colleagues from GERB, have worked for four years, and we intend to continue to work for your interests, to increase the incomes of all of you, so that every Bulgarian can feel more European than he felt at the beginning of the mandate. We from the United Patriarchs will support this budget. Thank you. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u342	Thank you, dear Mr. Sabanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u343	Madam President, Vice Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority! It's not so rosy, and it's not so bright in the future. It is not possible to support a state budget, despite the undeniable and fair increase in the remuneration of teachers, doctors, nurses, the people who are on the front line in the fight against the pandemic. The most important lack of support for the incomes of the majority of Bulgarian citizens, those with the lowest remuneration, for the people who, with the miserable and frozen for the next three years minimum wage, are doomed to continuing social exclusion. It's about time, and I'm sorry the Minister of Finance isn't here right now, it's time for a change in the tax system. It was time for solidarity and a fair balance in income taxes. Because at the end of the year business will again distribute profits and dividends, and employees will continue to bear the main tax burden. We have proposed a change in the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals, which during the examination of tax laws was ignored by the government. We'll offer it again. In such difficult times, the introduction of tax relief for workers on a minimum wage is the least that needs to be done. On the support of this proposal we will see if there are any MPs in this House who are sympathetic to those with the lowest incomes. Because it is more than 1,000 of our fellow citizens who, instead of supporting you, will soon make them do twice as much overtime. Despite your attempt to convince both the people's representation and society of the advantages of the presented draft budget, the truth is this: honourable Members, this is a budget of poverty, and for a long period of time! Thank you. [[Single applause by non-member MPs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u344	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Kichikov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u345	Madam President, Mrs Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! The budget for the next 2021 can hardly be called an anti-crisis budget, rather it is a budget in which we see a distribution of a calpat, a budget created by the least resistance, and the idea is clear by giving it to a calpat, then this calpat of the next elections will become a voice. The project does not include anti-crisis measures at all, envisions social costs, a large deficit, debt and leaves the impression that the only priority in drawing it up is the next elections. There are no reforms in any of the major expenditures set out in budget 2021. The social element in which there is nothing wrong in itself, but when it is broken and distorted only through the prism of the government and this social element is aimed only at the political survival of the subjects of the ruling coalition, this is already a problem. In fact, colleagues, the only reforms envisaged by the government are those that would allow it to spend more. And here we are told that the dissolution of fiscal rules is a necessity in a period of unusual and crisis circumstances. The deficit must be higher in order for the state to spend more to fight the pandemic and the economic crisis caused by it. But which of the main spending measures announced by the government is directly aimed at combating the particular economic effects of the pandemic? There aren't any! It is understandable and is a practice in a period when the stay of elections, spending is always greater. But even in such a situation, a little common sense could have been shown and a priority could have been given to more meaningful and long-term policies at the expense of our proposed in the current budget. Much of our expenses are presented as one-off, but we are convinced that they will become long-term. There is no chance that the level of spending in the long term will be later and we do not see measures to accelerate growth here. There are no measures for the long-term recovery of the economy. Against the backdrop of all the wasteful costs, our support for the business is lost. The part of the economy that actually produces something, not just redistribution, will continue to suffer. Stimulating investment must be a priority. Otherwise, it will be the most important problem in the long term. We, therefore, from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, called all together, on the basis of our political programmes and views, for a consensus on setting national priorities to be implemented by each future government. In a situation like today, when we have a crisis caused by the coronavirus and another crisis caused by the behaviour of the government, which breaks statehood, it would be for the benefit of the people and the state. Unfortunately, we will obviously continue, as we have so far, 10 years of political timelessness and an escape from reforms, public investment without purpose and results, and the destruction of a 20-year political consensus on the country's financial stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u346	Thank you, dear Mr. Kichikov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Iankov has a statement. Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u347	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, Mrs Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We do not see in budget 2021 a fair mechanism to support those most affected. There's no justice. There's no solidarity either. And the ruling coalition explains that budget 2021 is the most social budget in recent years. There's no other explanation. For each and every one equal. However, I would like to inform you why I say that there is no justice and solidarity in such a complex situation, in a crisis where not the big money is expected to determine the fate of the citizens, the fate of the workers, which will be the priority sectors in the economy and the state will enter into its functions as a social state, as it is written in the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. A million and a half Bulgarian citizens are on labor contracts with minimum wage, one million and three hundred thousand are those working from 650 BGN. The minimum wage, up to BGN 2000 and only 300,000 are the ones who get over BGN 2,000. The measures you are proposing are for all of you equally, and for those who work nearly 300,000, including remuneration over 10 thousand. lv. A month of human beings! I'm not talking about household. In such a complex crisis situation, especially from the forecasts made for the next year, you had to make a responsible decision, which may not have been your policy, but it would have been with broad public support. Solidar society is motivated to be one of the decisions that the rulers make. Therefore, we have already made a proposal for amendments to the Law on Income Tax on individuals, which you are ignoring. Now, when we look at the budget, we will offer an indeterminate minimum for people with a minimum wage contract. Upon completion of the year, the advance tax deducted on income from wages shall be recovered. Those who work with a contract of BGN 650. per month, after the end of the year, to receive the tax for the 12 months. And since you probably don't know what it means to work on a minimum wage, do you know how much you actually get when you don't have a class when you haven't worked, especially if you're a young person? You know, this is actually going to be 500 leva. To be exact.. 504 BGN.? We offer these 56 BGN, which are held each month at the end of the year, one such social group, very large and over 1,500 000 in Bulgaria, to be able to restore these 672 BGN. There are not many, but there is actually an extremely large amount of money for a large number of Bulgarian citizens. That's the value of a refrigerator. You probably do not know that there are also Bulgarian families who do not know or have a shortage of electrical appliances and do not have a refrigerator! Don't forget yourself! And for the next group of citizens, we offer a limited minimum of 1,300 000.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u348	Get it over with.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u349	Tax preference of the poverty threshold, provided for as 369 BGN. for the following year, for receiving employment income of BGN 650. up to BGN 2000 It's not a big amount either. It is about 450 BGN, which, however, are a solidarity attitude regulated by a management solution in relation to the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u350	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate, colleagues. Please, the Quaestors, invite the MPs to the Chamber! First, I will put to the vote the Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, including the Draft of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. 1 and 2, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 103 MPs: for no, against 65, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, with the Opinion of the Council of Ministers on Art. 1 and 2. They voted 104 MPs: 98 against 6, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. That concludes the state budget point.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u351	We move on to the final item of today's agenda: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO ACCEPT THE PARTICIPATION RULES IN THE PLENNAR MEETINGS OF THE PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING OF PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES PUT UNDER A REFUNDING IMPLEMENT OR CARANTINES WITH THE CIVID-19 ATTACK OF AN AUTHORITY 61, AL. 2 AND 3 OF THE HEALTH LAW. Importer Daniela Daritkova and group of MPs. Here you are, Mr. Tzipov, to introduce us to the Project of Solutions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u352	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! May I have your attention, please? Project! DECISION adopting a draft decision adopting Rules for participation in the plenary meetings of the National Assembly of Members of the National Assembly, placed under mandatory isolation or quarantine due to Covid-19 disease by an act of an authority under art. 61, para. 2 and 3 of the Health Act. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and § 2 of the Additional provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in relation to art. 63 of the Health Act HAS DECIDED It shall adopt rules for remote participation by electronic means in the plenary meetings of the National Assembly of Members of the National Assembly, placed under mandatory isolation or quarantine due to the CIVID-19 by an act of an authority under art. 61, para. 2 and 3 of the Health Act as follows: 1. Members of parliament placed under mandatory isolation or quarantine due to the COVID-19 by an act of authority under art. 61, para. 2 and 3 of the Health Act, shall have the right to participate remotely electronically in the plenary meetings of the National Assembly, including if they are close contact within the meaning of an act of an authority under art. 61 of the Health Act of a confirmed case of COVID-19. 2. Remote participation by electronic means in plenary sessions shall be carried out through an internet platform for video conference, which shall provide direct and virtual participation. 3. The Chairs of the Parliamentary Groups shall present by 18.00 on the day preceding the plenary sitting in the Office of the President of the National Assembly a list of the Members of the relevant group meeting the conditions under point 1. 1 and expressed their desire to participate in the plenary. 4. Member of the National Assembly, non-member of a parliamentary group meeting the conditions set out in paragraph 1. 1 and expressed a desire to participate in the plenary session, states this within the period laid down in paragraph 1. 3 by e-mail: Predsedatel@parliament.bg. 5. The office of the President of the National Assembly shall draw up a common list of the Members of the National Assembly. Three and four. A link shall be sent to each MP listed between 8.00 and 8.30 on the day of the relevant plenary session by the Cabinet of the President of the National Assembly for registration on the Internet platform for video conference and participation in the plenary. 6. In the verification of the quorum under art. 52, para. 2 of the National Assembly of the People's Republic of Bulgaria 5 are registered by visualizing a special screen in plenary. After verification by the Secretaries of the National Assembly whether the national representatives visualized on the screen are included in the list of items. 5 and by order of the President, the operator on duty of the computerised voting system shall add them to the system by which they are deemed to be present at the meeting. Member of the National Assembly who does not wish to participate in the inspection of the quorum under art. 52, para. Three of the subs, leaving the platform. 7. If you wish to speak, reply, duplicate, explanation of a negative vote, personal explanation or on procedural matters, the national representative shall be responsible for this. The 6th sentence first and second states its wish by request on the platform. The Chair shall give and take away the floor of the Member of the National Assembly through the platform. The time used shall be recorded over time under art. 58th subsp. 8. The People's Representative under c. 6 shall take part in a public vote after the vote of the Members of the National Assembly has been closed in plenary, and shall personally and orally declare its vote on a vote on a vote on a vote on a vote on a vote on a vote on a vote on a vote on a vote against a vote on a vote on a vote on a vote on a vote on a vote on a vote on a vote on a vote on a vote on a vote on a vote on a vote on a vote on a vote on a vote on a vote on a vote on a vote on a vote on a vote on a vote on a vote on a vote on a vote on a vote on a vote on a vote on a vote on a vote on a vote on a vote The results of the relevant vote shall be aggregated and the President shall declare the total result. 9. The Secretaries of the National Assembly shall assist the President in the implementation of these rules. 10. Members of the National Assembly who participate remotely electronically in the plenary sessions of the National Assembly who expressed their desire to participate in the plenary shall provide themselves with the necessary technical means and internet connection. 11. These rules shall not apply to secret ballots and closed meetings of the National Assembly. Honourable Members of Parliament, the proposed draft decision on the complexity of the epidemiological situation in the country due to the spread of COVID-19 and in the case of MPs from all parliamentary groups who are prevented from attending the plenary because of compliance with the anti-epidemic measures imposed, taking into account the need for these MPs to be able to participate in the plenary work of the National Assembly and in order to limit the spread of the disease in Parliament, we propose this draft decision to regulate their participation to be secured through an Internet platform for videoconference, providing them with personal, direct and virtual participation in plenary meetings. Allow me, Madam President, to draw attention to the Members of the National Assembly that the adoption of this decision will allow all Members of the National Assembly who are in mandatory isolation or quarantine within the meaning of the Health Act to participate in plenary sessions and to freely express their will, as has been said today in this plenary session. Allow me to continue the presentation of the Project with a statement of speech to propose editorial amendments to the text of the Decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u353	Switching to speeches. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Here you go, Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u354	In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 6, Madam President, I would like to make the following proposal for an editorial amendment: sentence two and third of this. 6 to be amended as follows: After verification by the Secretaries of the National Assembly whether the national representatives visualized on the screen are included in the list of items. 5 The President shall declare them, by which they shall be deemed to be present at the meeting and shall be added to the stenography protocol. The President shall open the meeting where the number of registered MPs through the computerized voting system together with those registered by visualization is more than half of the MPs. That is one proposal, Madam President. And the other proposal I want to make is to add a new t. 12 to read: ..12. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure and the activities of the National Assembly shall apply to outstanding questions. We believe that this decision, Madam President, will create the inability of these fellow Members to register and participate in the meeting and to vote and to verify how their vote is reflected by reference to the vote, which is an integral part of the stenographic protocol for the respective plenary sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u355	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Simeonov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u356	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'd like to propose a point. 6 The foreigner is to be replaced by an exhibition. I am reading: "In the verification of the quorum under art. 52. para. 2 of the National Assembly of the People's Republic of Bulgaria 5 are registered by showing a special screen. What does visualization mean? Nothing. There is no such word in the Bulgarian language. And then: "After checking by the Secretaries of the National Assembly whether the MPs shown on the screen are included in the list of items. 5 and at the order of the President and so on and so forth. And there's another dirty word that I can't find right now because...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u357	A foreigner is called, not a dirty word. A foreigner!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u358	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u359	Let's be exclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u360	That was the word "virtual." After talking about the display and the electronic communication, this can also be used. Or via a computer Internet or something. These are my editorial proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u361	Mr. Simeonov, I will only put to the vote the change in visualization with display and the House will decide whether to accept it. Any lines to Mr. Simeonov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Tsipov.]] Of course, Mr. Tsipov, you are welcome to read all over again. 6. As a procedure, I will allow you, because once you have spoken, to clarify the wording of this point. 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u362	Thank you, Madam President. Point 6 in its final version, honourable Members, will look like this: It's six. In the verification of the quorum under art. 52. para. 2 of the National Assembly of the People's Republic of Bulgaria 5 are registered by visualizing a special screen in plenary. After verification by the Secretaries of the National Assembly whether the national representatives visualized on the screen are included in the list of items. 5 The President announces them, with which they are considered present... [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u363	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u364	..at the meeting and added to the stenography protocol. The President shall open the meeting where the number of registered MPs through the computerised voting system together with those registered by visualisation is more than half of the MPs. Member of the National Assembly who does not wish to take part in the inspection of the quorum under art. 52, para. 3 of the SUBS, leaving the platform.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-06.u365	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. First, I'm going to put to the vote the editorial amendment to this. Six that Mr. Tzipov just read. Vote 95 MPs: for 94, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I am now voting on Mr. Simeonov's proposal for visualization to be replaced by an exhibition. 90 MPs voted: 27, none, abstention 63. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the creation and addition of a new item. 12 with such readings just now by Mr. Tzipov's text. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the entire draft decision with the editorial amendments thus made. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The proposal is accepted and with this the Project for a solution. Colleagues, due to the exhaustion of the agenda, I am closing today's plenary session. Thank you all for your work. Next regular plenary session on 11 November at 9:00. [[PHONE RINGING]]
