ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u1	I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, before we begin, a few messages: On 26 May 2020, the European Parliament and the Council adopted Decisions (EU) 2015/994 and (EU) 2015/994 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 May 2020 to 26 May 2020 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 May 2020 to 25 May 2020. No 0011-00-4, the National Assembly received a Report on Financial Management and Control and Internal Audit at the Supreme Judicial Council for 2019. The material is provided to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Sub-Committee on Public Sector Accountability to the Committee on Budget and Finance and is available to the National Representatives in the Library of the National Assembly. According to the Law on the fiscal council and the automatic corrective mechanisms in the National Assembly, an Opinion of the Fiscal Council on a Report on the implementation of the budget of the State Social Security for 2019. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance and to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and is available in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: REPORT ON THE COMMISSION'S ACTION ON THE CONVERSATION OF THE CORRUPTION AND THE DEFINITION OF THE NON-CONTEMPORARY PROCEEDANCE FOR 2019 With the Commission's opinion on the fight against corruption, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics, Mr. Yachev will introduce us. Here you go, Mr. Yachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u2	Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov, Chairman of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, I would like to propose to the MPs first.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u3	We are voting on the procedure made by Mr. Yachev. Vote 166 MPs: 162, no objection, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Invite Mr. Tsatsarov to the hall. Here you go, Mr. Yachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u4	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I give your attention: "COMMODITY" on a Report on the Commission's Anti-Corruption Activity Report and on the withdrawal of illegally acquired property in 2019, p. No 020-00-6, submitted on 26 March 2020 by the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property At its meeting held on 21 May 2020, the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interest and Parliamentary Ethics Commission examined the Report on the Commission's Anti-Corruption Action and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property in 2019, No 020-00-6, submitted by the Anti-Corruption Commission and on the withdrawal of illegally acquired property on 26 March 2020. Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov, Chairman, Mr. Anton Slavchev, Vice-President, Mrs. Antoaneta Tsonkova, Member, Mrs. Sylvia Kudarova, Member and Mr. Plamen Yotsov, Member attended the meeting of the Anti-Corruption Commission. The annual report on the activities of the Anti-Corruption Commission and on the withdrawal of illegally acquired property for 2019 was presented by the President of the Commission Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov, who noted that the report is structured in separate directions in which the Commission has the power to work. The presentation of the report was carried out by the relevant members of the Commission in charge of portfolios. According to the Department of Corruption and Corruption Prevention, Mr. Yotsov, who is responsible for this directorate, said that in 2019 a total of 79 draft laws were agreed by the executive bodies and 34 proposals were made in order to reduce and avoid this risk in 18 of them. An electronic platform has been set up for the bills passed through the conciliation procedure. During the accounting year, the review and analysis of anti-corruption policies and measures contained in the sectoral anti-corruption plans of the institutions continued. The anti-corruption plans of 35 structures are analyzed and secondary officers with a budget. The work on the preparation of Methodology for Corruption Risk Assessment continues. There are also 3 projects under the Operational Programme "Good management" which are aimed at increasing the expert capacity of the Commission staff. In order to carry out its functions in the prevention of corruption, the Commission, during the reporting period, together with representatives of the local authorities and the Ministry of Education and Science, has undertaken initiatives to support the process of including anticorruption training and education in the relevant educational levels. Mrs. Sylvia Kudreeva pointed out that the campaign for the adoption and processing of the annual declarations of property and interests under art was successfully carried out. 35, para. 1, t. 1. et cetera. 4 of the Law against Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property submitted by persons holding senior public positions under art. 6, para. 1 of the Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property, as well as the adoption and processing of introductory, final and corrective declarations of property and interests. The Commission has made within the statutory period the publication of its website of the submitted declarations of property and interests under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 et c. 4 of the Anti-Corruption Act and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property and the publication has the following content: - 3706 Annual Declarations - Part I: Property; - 324 introductory declarations - Part I: Property, and Part II: Interests; - 416 final declarations, including those to be submitted one year after the submission of the first final declaration; - a total of 258 are the persons who have not submitted or submitted the relevant declarations outside the statutory period, of which: 179 persons who have submitted outside the statutory deadline and 79 persons who have not submitted any declarations at all. On the occasion of the local elections held in 2019, a serious preparatory work was carried out by the Commission to establish the number of municipal councillors, where for the first time there was an obligation to declare the property, including the preparation and dispatch of more than 300 letters to the municipalities of the country to provide information on the persons who successfully passed the elections and those who had dismissed the post held, which led to the successful adoption and processing of the declarations of those debtors, who amounted to more than 6300 persons, mayors, deputy mayors, municipal councillors. The publication carried out contains 5116 introductory and final declarations of property and interests. A total of 374 are persons from 135 municipalities, who have not submitted or submitted outside the legal deadline. For the past year, employees of the Public Register have carried out an inspection of more than 9900 persons, of which: 8573 annual declarations, 324 introductory declarations and 416 final declarations. 117 acts have been carried out to establish an administrative infringement of persons holding senior public posts who have not complied with the statutory deadlines for submitting the relevant declarations. A conflict of interest was established in the context of a conflict of interest and Mr. Anton Slavchev pointed out that in 2019 a total of 166 signals were received by the Commission, which were initiated to verify the existence or absence of a conflict of interest with regard to persons occupying a senior public office by collecting, processing and analysing documents and evidence collected during the verification and preparation of the relevant draft decisions. In total, during this period, the Commission prepared 162 draft decisions on substance and termination and imposed fines, sanctions and forfeiture of property under criminal decrees of BGN 173 511. The Commission has established the following decisions: - 14 decisions establishing a conflict of interest; - 87 decisions with which it does not establish a conflict of interest; - 61 decisions to put an end to the proceedings. During the reporting period the Commission continued the work of proceedings initiated before the Commission to prevent and establish a conflict of interest under the repealed Law on Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest and imposed sanctions of BGN 34 027. The Directorate has carried out a procedural representation in 32 pending cases in different stages of development. In 2019, the Supreme Administrative Court's final judgment confirmed 6 Commission decisions establishing a conflict of interest and annulled 2 decisions. In the field of anti-corruption in 2019, the Commission received a total of 555 prosecutorial inquiries within the meaning of the Law on the Judicial Authority, which carried out or carried out operational search and reference events, including the taking of explanations of persons and the requirement of documents. The work on 450 checks has been completed and the results have been reported to the authorities of the Prosecutor's Office. During the same period, the Directorate has received the competence of 965 alerts on which specific actions and checks have been carried out, including the removal of explanations from persons. From them, 893 alerts have been completed, reports have been produced and the Commission has taken a decision. Other alerts shall include operational search and reference events, documents required, information taken from persons and cross-check on documents shall be carried out. In 2019 were sent according to competence 136 signals of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria for operational interaction. The staff of the specialized directorate have participated in 9 specialized operations together with the Specialized Prosecutor's Office, namely: - on the territory of the municipality of Cherven Bryag, Pleven District.. an investigation into corruption actions of the mayor of Cherven Bryag Municipality........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The mayor has been charged by the Prosecutor's Office for Official Crimes; - on the territory of the Municipality of Chuprene, Vidin District "Operation and Search activities against officials, including the mayor of the municipality, for crimes related to the sale of municipal lands to companies related to relatives of the mayor. Indictment has been filed by the Special Prosecutor's Office against the Mayor for Officials and Documentary Crimes; - on the territory of the municipality of Bozhurishte, Sofia district "operative and search activities against officials, including the mayor and deputy mayor of the municipality, for crimes related to the sale of municipal lands at a total price of 160 thousand. lv. At their actual value, about 8 million. lv. to companies that are related to the Mayor's relatives. The mayor of the municipality was detained for 72 hours and charged with an official crime, while the deputy mayor and head of the Department of Municipal Estates were charged with preparing false documents; - on the territory of the Municipality of Plovdiv - actions in the investigation of data for requested bribery by a member of staff of the Mayor of Plovdiv in the municipality of Plovdiv and its purpose is to issue a building permit. The Mayor of the District of Severjesk is indicted by the Specialized Prosecutor's Office for Trade with Influence; - on the territory of the municipality of Kostenets and elsewhere in the country, addresses on the territory of Sofia, the municipality of Bratya Daskalovi, Stara Zagora - on the territory of the customs office Sevlievo, carried out investigative actions according to data that the head of the customs office for a long period of time has taken unregulated amounts in the form of a monthly fee of calmness by a local company against a promise not to carry out customs checks on the trader for which an accusation has been brought against him; - in the State Fund............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ - on the territory of the town of Kostenets "actions to investigate against the mayor of the municipality that as an official he has embezzled foreign money awarded to him in this capacity; - on the territory of the city of Nessebar and the district of Burgas................................................... for actions for an organized criminal group, buying votes and violating the political rights of the citizens, resulting in charges against the mayor of the municipality of Nessebar and three candidates for municipal councilors. In the accounting year 2019, the Commission carried out a total of 482 operational and search events throughout the country in relation to the prevention, detection and countering of violations and crimes related to corruption of persons holding senior public positions. In the field of "Coordination and Control" and "Management of the secured property" Ms. Tsonkova noted that in 2019, in total, under the two laws, the already repealed Law on withdrawal for the benefit of the State of illegally acquired property and the current Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of the illegally acquired property, the Commission has adopted 222 decisions for the application of claims for interim measures in the courts of the country of 848 million. 385 thousand. BGN 935. and with assets offered for collateral worth 653 million. 388 thousand. 252 lv. The Commission's activities in carrying out the verification and establishment of illegally acquired property, securing and withdrawing it are carried out through the specialized administration organized in five territorial directorates: Burgas, Varna, Veliko Tarnovo, Plovdiv and Sofia. During the reporting period there is a significant increase in the imposed precautionary measures on the available cash and shares and shares of commercial companies compared to previous periods. The trend of the largest share of the secured real estate is to be maintained, to have land properties followed by the auction sites and residential sites. For this period in favour of the State, movable and immovable property, distributed by type of asset, is taken away as follows: - real estate s 37 pcs, including land properties "16 pcs, regulated land properties "7 pcs, non-regulated land properties " 2 pcs, apartments and garages " 8 pcs, houses " 1 pcs, and sales sites " 3 pcs. - motor vehicles - 119 pieces. In conclusion, Mr. Tsatsarov presented the view that the current Anti-Corruption Act and the forfeiture of illegally acquired property had a positive impact on the activities in the prevention of corruption, the publicity of the property of persons holding senior public positions, the establishment of conflict of interest, the withdrawal of illegally acquired property and the counteraction of corruption. In the course of work, the Commission also found the need to refine separate texts of the Law in order to achieve greater efficiency in the implementation of anti-corruption policy. The outlined ideas for reform of the legislative framework are related to the scope of art. 6 of the Anti-Corruption Act and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property and the provision of paragraph 2, namely the clarification of the circle of persons holding senior public positions and other debtors, as well as the volume and type of circumstances that those persons should declare. In the discussion of the report took part the MPs, members of the Commission Boris Yachev, Spas Gurnevski, Kristina Sidorova, Milko Nedyalkov, Ivan Valkov, Simeon Simeonov, Slavi Netzov and Simeon Naydenov. Specific questions were raised regarding the results of the Commission's activities carried out in 2019. In the course of the discussion, questions were raised about the need for legislative reforms, a new territorial structure of the Commission, the methodology for declaring property and interests, the Commission's interaction with the other institutions, the coordination procedure of the bills, the numerical composition of the Commission and a number of others. Following the discussion, the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Commission, with 6 votes in favour, without the opposition and 2 votes in abstention, proposed that the National Assembly adopt a Report on the activities of the Anti-Corruption Commission and on the withdrawal of illegally acquired property in 2019, No 020/06, submitted by the Anti-Corruption Commission and on the withdrawal of illegally acquired property on 26 March 2020. Madam President, allow me to read the National Assembly Decision Draft. Project! DECISION on the report on the action of the Counteraction Commission of corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property for 2019 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 18, para. 1 of the Law on Countering Corruption and Acquirement of Illegal Property HAS DECIDED Adopts a Report on the Commission's activities in countering corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property for 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Yachev. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mrs. Sidorova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u6	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Tsatsarov! Two years ago, the ruling majority adopted the long-awaited Anti-Corruption Act and chose a Commission to implement its provisions. Even then, the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) clearly and categorically stated that in this form the Law will not work effectively, that the Commission, elected in this way, will not be able to deal with one of the biggest problems of Bulgarian society, namely corruption. We get evidence of that every day. Let us remind ourselves that at the beginning of this year the International Non-governmental Organization of Transparency International has placed Bulgaria in 74th place on the Corruption Index. This gives us the bottom of the European Union among 180 countries surveyed, Bulgaria is 74th. Last week, in its recommendation of the Council of the European Union on the National Reform Programme in Bulgaria 2020, it was made clear that in order to build public confidence, it is necessary to achieve sound results in terms of final sentences in cases of high-level corruption. What does that tell you? We don't have an effective fight against corruption. There is also the tendency of a significant discrepancy between the expectations of society and the successful results of the Commission's activities. Because I'm sure you hear every day about corruption signals that don't get their results and your investigation. The report that we are looking at today takes into account the work of the Commission under the leadership of three Presidents Plamen Georgiev, after his withdrawal Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov, who was temporarily acting as President, was elected Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov at the end of 2019. What do we read in the report? Or exactly what we don't read in the report? We do not read about the biggest scandals that happened last year and have been involved in them by Commissioners. We do not read that the Commission, which is called upon to fight the illegal acquisition of property, was at the epicenter of such a scandal. I only recall the terrace of the former President of the Commission Mr. Plamen Georgiev. In this report we also do not read about the Apartment Gates another major scandal with illegal acquisition of property. There's not a word about them. But what's in the report? There is a scope, a structure defined according to the order of the President of the Commission. There is also a paradox for the controlled authority to determine the parameters by which it will be reported to the control body, in this case the National Assembly. These parameters are also not consistent with the portfolio committee of the National Assembly. We read and see that the structurally exported data for the purpose of the Law, the composition, the powers of the Commission are one in one with those that were in the activity report for 2018. The reminder is certainly for validation. And I do not accept the motive that this is being done because the report is intended for the general public. It's more like searching for quantity and volume at the expense of quality. A serious problem that stands out in the Commission's 2019 Activity Report is the personnel problem. In 477 people state 100 members are not employed, of them 23 management posts. Three territorial directorates are without guidance. At the same time, those working in the Directorate for Counteraction of Corruption are working under conditions of overwork. It turns out that the work in the Commission is not attractive. Why, however, is not clear from the report that has been proposed to us today. I hope this will be changed this year. There is also a serious discrepancy between the claims brought for the revocation of property and the actual revocation of property. Does this not seem to you to be an increased repressive function of the authority in a pending trial? As a result of this approach, persons to whom such measures have been taken may rightly claim compensation from the State. Let us also consider the activities of the other directorates. Department of Administrative and Legal and Information Services. In the activities of this Directorate is also the procedural representation to which KPCONPI is a party. In 2019 the procedural representation took place in respect of 64 cases. Only for comparison, in 2018 such cases were 41. There's height, but it's not clear which cases mark an increase. Let us also take a look at what is happening in the Directorate for Prevention of Corruption, with which 79 bills of executive power are agreed in order to prevent corruption. In 18 bills such prerequisites were found and corruption risk was found. However, the report does not reflect any of the bills and the measures taken. We come to the Department of Conflict of Interest. During the reporting period, I remind you again, the Commission received a total of 166 signals for a possible conflict of interest. However, this has been established in only 14 cases. The fines imposed on these 14 cases amount to 173 thousand. lv. From these figures there is no way to determine what the real effect of the fight against conflict of interest is. We've got a few open cases, a lot of signals, some fines. I expect we'll get an answer as to why there's such a big gap. To conclude, I would say that despite the work the Commission has done for the reporting period and the efforts made by its members, the levels of corruption in our country continue to be extremely high and our country does not achieve satisfactory results in this area. I hope that the necessary legislative changes, which, apart from our parliamentary group, we have also heard the President of the Commission Mr Tsatsarov talking about and about which he has written in the report's conclusion, will soon be available to the MPs and we will be able to discuss them. Because I believe that it is clear to everyone that with a bad law we cannot have a well-functioning Commission. We will not support the Report. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u7	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sidorova. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Colleagues, we are continuing the debate. You have the floor. Here you go, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u8	Happy Spasov Day!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u9	It's Spasov Day, yes. Mr. Gurnevsky, you are congratulated for the mansion day Mr. Stoynev. And I congratulate you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u10	You're particularly kind today, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u11	And the opposition colleagues mostly.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u12	There will probably be no booing from the opposition, there will be no punishment for which I thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u13	Well, when you have a holiday, we won't punish you, sir.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u14	You never know, I haven't started yet. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u15	Be careful then.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u16	I listened very carefully to the report during the Commission, which took place last Thursday, and today's speech by colleague Sidorova, who, I must say, is an active member of the parliamentary committee. And there, and here continues the trend from the first day when this law was passed to him, the attitude towards him. Since the first day in this Chamber, when we adopted the Law, all the political forces in this Parliament have united around this law, they have considered it to be good, suitable, and, of course, in time with slight adjustments, improving certain texts, updating, will become a strong and working law. The only ones who did not support this law were the colleagues of the Bulgarian Socialist Party and their main request then, their main view was: yes, to have such a law, but, you see, not under the auspices and supervision and supervision of the parliament, where all the political forces are, but to be attached to the presidential institution, practically the President to control this law. And then I wondered for myself why. The next two years, however, explained why. Maybe it's clear to you, too. The colleague got up and said: "Nothing has been done on the terrace, on the Apartment Gate. "And I ask myself: if we look into the Bulgarian arrests at the moment, for these two years there are the biggest Bulgarian oligarchs, with untold riches, with castles, islands, yachts, airplanes. We've been looking for them in Europe, in the world. One is in Dubai, one is in Belgrade, one is huge oligarchs for billions, taken from the skin of this people. And perhaps that was the aim of colleagues: to have any chance of these people being under the wing, under the shadows. Because if you look, you will see that all of these oligarchs are derived from the Bulgarian Communist Nomenclature and State Security. And this is undeniable with their membership, which came to light. That's where the penis was tightening. The coworkers wanted in some way to save these people, who in certain cases are their prominent sponsors and members in their lists when they go to elections. So when we're talking about a terrace and billions and billions and billions and billions and billions and billions and billions and billions and billions and billions and billions and billions and billions and billions and billions and billions and billions of dollars and billions and billions and billions and billions and billions and billions and billions and And here we are talking about prominent oligarchs, and if it comes to checking the criminal transition, there are privatizers here and on the first lines of such people, you realize what will happen? That's where the cocky fellows are. I think that I am personally convinced, and this has shown it, and the result of the vote in the Commission, all the parliamentary groups represented in this committee, supported the report of the President and the Commission, only the BSP did not support it, you saw reasons from which you did not remember anything. It is a fact that the President of the Commission, who has only been a few days, a few days, President of this committee, has made it clear from the report that he has done a very serious job to fully cover the Commission's activities. The differentiation of individual activities by the Vice-Presidents has shown that there is professionalism in every direction, they have done a serious analysis. I'm not going to talk about the numbers, but the numbers Mr. Yachev said... However, the fact that the Commission's attention is over 3 billion. And 900 million. It shows right now that this committee is working seriously, and maybe there's still some political power out there that's shaking about it. The other thing that made the impression is that the analysis shows that they have reached the risk categories to be covered and how well the parliament did when it included in the scope of the declarations and municipal councillors, because for all of you who were in the local government or observed on the ground, a number of cases have been exported here. You know that there is an extreme risk of serious corruption and serious public funds are leaking out. Therefore, parliament, when it adopted a decision to fall into the scope and those six thousand municipal councillors are already over 10 thousand people covered, shows that more and more taps are closing. The problems of the Commission, Mrs. Sidorova, said, were also the very property situation as a service, as an opportunity for more effective communication between the Commission's individual units and the unsecured personnel potential on the ground, but this is not such an easy job. It was very well mentioned, told this thing by Chairman Tsatsarov. For this committee, both locally and here at headquarters, people are selected by special methods who have to meet very serious criteria in order to get a job in this committee. So not quickly, but gradually and securely, building up personnel and on the ground will result in even better results in the work of this committee, which means that the Law adopted then was correct, that Parliament had done the right thing, not accidentally united the political forces except one that was afraid of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Gurnevsky. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you are, Mr. Nedyalkov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u18	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Tsatsarov! I have no fear of this law. This law is designed to demonstrate the activities of the Bulgarian state in the fight against corruption. And for a reason, I'm telling him to demonstrate! We've already seen two reports under the new law. This year's report takes into account the Commission's work according to its structure and functions as described in this law. The report is like last year, slightly further developed. However, there is no analysis and guidance for effective countering corruption, such as the objective of the Law, especially for corruption for those holding senior public positions. The other, which is, there is not a single accent in the fight against corruption. For example: society knows that one of the most susceptible sectors to corruption, these are public procurement and so-called absorption of large public resources. There's not a single accent in here. I exclude the mayor of Cherven Bryag, who has stopped a public procurement in the interest of his relatives this is described in the Law. But there's a lot in society. The Commission has not made an analysis of how many public contracts with European funds have been launched and have not even been started, money on them has been paid and these public contracts have not been completed. There are many such cases and this gives us a bad view to say, a bad image to the European Commission and the European Union. I will only address a few aspects. First of all, prevention of corruption. You have heard how many bills have been the subject of the Commission's work, how many recommendations have been given, how many texts have been amended in these bills. But here in society there is the opinion and quite rightly that the bills with great corruption risk are not introduced by state institutions are not imported by the Council of Ministers. They are imported by certain Members of the National Assembly and are even assigned to them to bring them in. Therefore, as a Member of the National Assembly and as a member of the Anti-Corruption Commission, I intend to introduce to the National Assembly a change of art. 32, p. 1, where the laws submitted by us, colleagues, will also be subject to coordination for corrupt elements. We're talking here about the second focus on efficiency. A lot of numbers were said here. Mr. Yachev in the report emphasized some of them. Let's look at them from another angle. The Commission states at the moment, as in last year's report, that it claims property worth 3 billion. and 144 million. lv. It's almost as much as it was last year. I want to tell you that, until now, confiscated property, seized property under the new law, there is no, and there is no lev withdrawn under the new law. This is about procedures. The stolen property reported in the Report is under the old and repealed laws, whose successor is again the Commission for Countering Corruption and Detainment of Illegally Acquired Property. In 2019 157 requests were reported under the new law to secure 782 million. lv. For 2018, they were five productions for 826 thousand. lv. Seventy-seven million claims have been filed in court. lv. You can see the funnel shrinking. For 2019, the court has satisfied 11 claims - partially or entirely under the Law on the seizure of property acquired under criminal activity - and 12 under the Law on the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. Eight claims for 8.8 million were rejected. lv. 14 claims for 8 million are fully and substantially respected. And 100,000. lv. Three billion claims for 700 million this year........................................... 8 million. And 100,000. lv. by the old law that's been repealed. So far, the facts are true, but the funnel is shrinking even more. A large part of the real estate is realized by the National Revenue Agency. Here are the results for last year: realized by the NRA (NRA) 116 real estates for each, if we divide them, the total amount is for nearly 2 million. BGN, for 18 thousand. And 100 leva. Every single one of them. Fourteen vehicles for 28,000. BGN, 14 vehicles of 2 thousand lv. Or the total implementation of the NRA is 2 million. And 142,000. lv. So the long trials that are carried out on illegally acquired property devalue this property, and we take away property that ultimately does not bring serious revenue to the state, and that is the Law, that is the retribution that people want. And if we are talking about efficiency, I would like to say: the Commission's budget last year made 17 million. BGN, the income is 8 million. And 100,000. lv. Make your own conclusions. And I'm graduating. The reform, made with the Law on Countering Corruption and the Defeat of Illegally Acquired Property, had great expectations, especially with the establishment of this mega commission. With the events surrounding its former president, starting energy was wasted and confidence in the Commission stagnated last year. Not only does this episode give the European Commission the right in the spring package recommendations to Bulgaria, to stress that it takes a solid number of final sentences for corruption on the high levels of power to build confidence in society. Here, too, the Commission's activities, as well as the entire justice system, are being properly criticised by society. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u19	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Tsatsarov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Frankly, I had no intention of speaking simply because this is a report by the Commission and because the word in this Chamber should be of the Members of the National Assembly. I can find another argument in which I do not speak, it is formal, but for me it works quite well, because I can say that I have been the chairman of this committee since 20 December and I am taking into account the work of my fellow Members. Therefore, all that has been heard so far is none of my concern. It may be that we are alive and well, it will be heard next year, but at least at this point I can say that my contribution is 10 days, as a result of which I do not take the floor, because it does not concern my work. In fact, the reason why I take the floor is not to argue with the MPs, but it is unacceptable, who have just spoken, but rather to defend to a certain extent, as far as I can, of course, the authority of the institution that I am at the moment, at the same time the work of my fellow Members, regardless of whether one of them is a member of the Commission and one of them is a regular employee in its administration. What have you been told? Mrs. Sidorova also said that in the parliamentary committee at the time of the hearing. Of course, dialogue was, I'd say, an idea more constructive. However, it has been said that the Law in this form will not work effectively, the Commission in this form will not deal with corruption, that there is a significant gap between the Commission's activities and the expectations of society. I can't argue with that conclusion entirely. The only thing I'm going to say, believe me, without a gram of politicisation, is this. In this form, if the Law is changed as demanded by the parliamentary opposition, it will still not work. Nothing will change in your work and your findings if the Commission is appointed not by this Parliament but by the President. Nothing! Everything will be like this! But if you think this is the key to the fight against corruption in Bulgaria, without a gram of politics I tell you, and you know it very well. One more thing. You said the Commission, in this form, would not deal with corruption. It's not my place to argue with a MP. However, dealing with corruption is not just the work of one committee, dealing with corruption goes through this room, because it votes and accepts the tools we work with, with which the prosecution works, with which the Ministry of Interior, DANS works and so on. Part of this toolbox, let's say, is in the Penal Code and remains intact since 1968. Ms. Sidorova, with all due respect to your opinion, I cannot accept criticism of the contents of the report in this form for a simple reason. First you said that we have determined the contents of the report ourselves. Well, given that there is no decision of the committee concerned, I have no other way than to define it as it is in its present form. If the Commission, which you are Vice-President of, takes another decision, it is natural that we will comply with it. But so far, there is no such solution. Again, I don't want to politicize, but I'm asking you to take the following into account. The report is not a newspaper, the report is not an information website. You said that there is no terrace of Plamen Georgiev in it. I'm sorry to remind you of this, but there are also no checks on purchased real estate in Sofia for a small amount of parliamentary representatives from your parliamentary group. So let's be objective. But I'm saying it again, the report isn't a newspaper. One more thing. It has been said that there is a huge gap between the cost of claims and the loss of property. The MP who last took the floor, I think he said a lot of objective things, said something else. There is no fear of this law because there is a difference one of the reasons was that there are long processes that devalue the value of property. Why is there a difference between claimed and stolen property? Because the property, before it is taken away, goes through three courts and because if we talk about the processes being too long, it means to take it from you, a completely reverse decision, and this reverse decision is a decision on accelerated confiscation, as a result of which you will give us the right to enter people's homes and immediately take away their property and sell it so that it is not devalued. Only then it would be a drastic violation of their rights. That's why I'm saying there's such a difference. There is therefore a gap between the prices of claims and the final result, and the gap is due to another reason: 127, exactly 127 cases, I can announce tomorrow and to what value they are stopped because they are waiting for an interpretation decision from the Supreme Court of Cassation of 2018. And these 127 cases strengthen the liability, i.e. the property which has been claimed, but has not yet been withdrawn. These are basically the things I can answer for. I'd say one more thing. You spoke, Mr. Nedyalkov, and about an analysis of public procurement. Believe me, whatever analysis we do to you on public procurement, on this: these public procurements how they were realized, what public funds were spent, who finalized them and so on, while art. 219 The notorious idleness in the Penal Law stands in this form, this analysis can only be used for your own, and for our, of course, purposes, but they will not go further than the end of the analysis. In conclusion, I have been guarding myself from this talk of political conclusions, at least because of the obligation to be politically neutral, but again I say: please judge that the changes in the Law are in your hands. And, please, if possible, of course I know that politics does not allow it, but ultimately there is a mind, do not think that if this committee is appointed by the President, whoever he is, here you will hear a different report under this law in force. Otherwise, I am using the case of thanking all Members of Parliament because any criticism is welcome and constructive and, of course, to thank my colleagues from the Commission. I'm sorry if I was too spaced.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsatsarov. Colleagues, we are continuing the debate. Is there a wish to make a statement? Mr. Zarkov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u22	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Tsatsarov! I take the floor because it has been mentioned several times, and this is normal when we are discussing the PKCONPI and the Commission report that, you see, BSP's only criticism of this law and of this committee was who appoints its chairman. That was one of the criticisms. Fact! But the truth is that we conceptually opposed the idea of merging a series of bodies working in different procedures and presented another option in which this body was not only headed otherwise, but had other objectives, other functions, other powers. Namely, I recall: our idea was to create a new, tight body to investigate the Criminal Procedure Code of Corruption on the high levels of power and to fight for convicting sentences within the criminal trial. It is quite different from joining bodies that have been built over the years, most of them following the recommendations of the Monitoring Mechanism, which we talked about last week, which, firstly, have been reported as very good and working separately in a series of such reports, and then were joined to work even better and today we are watching such a report. This was the basis of our criticism of the Law and of the authority it must carry out. And the element of who to appoint its President was the subject of another debate which had a bearing on the independence of the Commission and how independent it should be of the ruling majority, respectively..... by the government. This report is therefore important every year to put some elements of reasoning in order to see which things can be improved and how. But do not underestimate the debate on the substance of the various types of anti-corruption. We still argue that corruption is also fighting through the Penal Code not only naturally, but also there! And here Mr. Tsatsarov raised the question of adequate regulations in the Penal Code. We have a new concept of penal policy that the government approved a few weeks ago. It has to work, but the truth is this: when the Council of the European Union, which we quoted last week and this week, says: "A public trust will be achieved when there are many statements, this criticism is not to this committee and is not the subject of this report. Because many of you may not yet understand that this committee cannot pursue the Penal Code and put people in jail. That's the D.A.'s job.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u23	To the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u24	Chasing and blaming. [[Reply of MP Dimitar Lazarov.]] Therefore, my speech ends with the following: this report has and poses important issues that we need to discuss, but the big issue of effective fighting corruption remains with us, it is our responsibility. The main criticism of this committee and the way the Law was created was not only who appointed the President. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? I don't see any other speeches. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I'll allow myself to read the draft decision one more time: Project! DECISION on the Report on the Activity of the Commission on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property for 2019 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 18, para. 1 of the Law on Countering Corruption and Acquirement of Illegal Property HAS DECIDED Adopts a Report on the Commission's work on countering corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property for 2019 Vote mode, please! Vote 177 MPs: 131 against 1, abstention 45. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, let's move on to the next point: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR MANAGEMENT BY THE EUROPEAN STRUCTURAL AND INVESTIGATION FUNDS. Report of the Committee on Budgets and Finance "Please come in, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u26	Mrs. Chairman! The Act for amendment and supplement of the European Structural and Investment Funds Fund Fund Management Act (prom., SG No. (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the Where proceedings before the managing authorities under this law are carried out by means of ISU, the communication of individual administrative acts issued in those proceedings shall be carried out by means of a communication in ESA to the applicant or beneficiary concerned and the relevant act shall be attached to the communication. The act shall be deemed to have been served by sending the message to ISUN. (4) Where proceedings before the managing authorities under this law are not carried out by means of ISU, the communication of the individual administrative acts issued in those proceedings shall be carried out under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u27	If you want, since the Law is short, let's read everything and then we'll open the discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u28	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, as in para. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6. "Transitional provision." The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following version of the name of the division: The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... By 31 October 2020, the Central Coordination Unit shall provide the possibility for the ISU to send information to the profile of a candidate or beneficiary in the secure electronic service information system for the message sent to the ISUN to the applicant or beneficiary under art. 22, para. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Are there any speeches, colleagues, on the bill presented? I can't see. Then let's move on to the vote. We are going to vote on the name of the Import Bill; § 1 by importer; § 2 in the version of the Commission; § 3 and 4 by importer; § 5 in the version of the Commission; § 6 by importer; "Transitional provision" in the version of the Commission; and § 7 in the version of the Commission. They voted 107 MPs: for 107 against and abstentions there is no. The bill has been passed. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: REPORT ON THE SITUATION OF THE ARGUED AND ARGUED FORCES OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA IN 2019 Here you are, Mr. Gazhev, to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u30	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe on the state of defence and the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2019, No 002-03-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 April 2020. At a meeting on 21 May 2020, the Defence Committee discussed the Report on the State of Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2019. The meeting was attended by: the Chief of Defence, Admiral Emil Eftimov, Deputy Minister of Defence, Atanas Zaprianov, the Parliamentary Secretary, Vanya Denevska, and the Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers, Georgi Krastev. The report and the reasons for it were presented by Deputy Minister Atanas Zaprianov, who pointed out that the report was developed on the basis of art. 23 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria presents an objective assessment and takes into account the commitments made in defence policy. The focus in 2019 was on modernization, the gradual increase in defence funds, overcoming the lack of personnel and combat training. The main conclusion of the report is that the state of the defense capabilities of the Bulgarian armed forces allows the tasks of the missions arising from their constitutional duties, but with limitations during and the volume of the tasks performed. The main factors that negatively affect the state of defense capabilities are outdated and malfunctioning weapons and equipment and the state of completion of personnel formations. Deputy Minister Zaprianov noted that during the year an important step was taken in the modernisation and technological re-arming of the armed forces with the acquisition of eight fighter planes F-16, block 70/72. A positive impact has had the planned increase in defence resources with the implementation of the National Plan to increase defence costs to 2% of the gross domestic product of the Republic of Bulgaria by 2024. Recruitment with servicemen at the end of the year was an average of 79,27% of the state staff, and the voluntary reserve was approximately 14%. As a result of the policy and measures to increase the attractiveness of the military profession for the first time in several years, the trend for increasing vacant posts has been stopped. The report proposed directions for the focus of efforts in 2020, such as: implementation of the National Plan to increase the defence costs of 2% of the Republic of Bulgaria's GDP by 2024; gradual overcoming of the incorruptibility of the armed forces and the voluntary reserve; implementation of the activities under the 2017 capacity target as a result of the Strategic Review important decisions are to be taken for the defence of the country by 2032. In the subsequent discussion the people representative Nikolay Tsonkov pointed out that in the report on the state of defence and the armed forces in 2019 there were positive moments, such as efforts with regard to people in defence and overall modernization, but they impress gaps and worrying moments. The serious difficulties in completing the reserve were highlighted. A criticism was also made regarding the structure and content of the report, which was recommended to change according to the established priorities, to increase the analytical part and avoid repetitions. On behalf of the MPs Emil Hristov, Plamen Manushev, Valentin Radev, Vladimir Toshev, Simeon Simeonov, Boris Vangelov and Milen Mihov was expressed support of the Report, which contains a report of implementation, professional evaluation and analytical part. It has been assessed that the report is critical and in some respects is even more detailed than necessary. The comments agreed that it is appropriate to maintain the permanent structure of the Report, which allows comparison with previous years. Support was also voiced on the direction of focusing efforts. The reported disturbance in Land Forces has been assessed as worrying, requiring further analysis of the causes and it is necessary to continue the trend of an increase in the percentage of gross domestic defence product for a long period with the support of all political forces. People's representative Vladimir Toshev raised a question as to whether new challenges such as cyber defence, communication and reliable management of new weapons systems are being taken into account, as well as what is being done to provide the servicemen with housing and the use of properties with a reduced need. People's representative Slavi Netzov asked for clarification if there was any confirmation from the United States that despite the pandemic of COVID-19 they would be able to deliver the F-16 planes? In response to the questions asked, Deputy Minister of Defence Atanas Zaprianov explained that additional organisational measures on cybersecurity were discussed during the Strategic Review. Additional requirements for the single management environment shall also be taken into account to enable full use of the capabilities of new systems such as F-16. There is official information that the contract for their delivery is executed on time and assurance that the time limits will be met. The Strategic Review also developed proposals for fairer compensation of rents and provision of servicemen's homes. The Chairman of the Defence Commission Konstantin Popov stressed that the Defence and Armed Forces Report reported one year during which defence remained an important priority. The report is objective, does not save the challenges and offers clear guidelines for 2020. The facts speak for themselves about the work done especially in the area of modernisation. On the basis of the debates held and the opinions expressed, the members of the Defence Committee with 13 votes in favour, without the votes against the Council and 8 votes abstention, adopted the following opinion: The Defence Committee shall propose to the National Assembly on the basis of art. 23 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria to adopt by decision a report on the state of defence and the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2019, No 002-03-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 April 2020
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Gadget. I'm opening the debate on the report. Please come in for a statement. You have the floor, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Despite the increase in defence expenditure for 2019 compared to the previous 2018, they remain insufficient to compensate for the accumulated capacity deficits in the armed forces over the last 30 years because of the current needs significantly exceed the resources that the country can afford for defence. Although the military budget for 2019 is more than 3% of gross domestic product as a result of the payment of the new F-16s, this does not solve the existing problems that stand on the agenda, and I will mention some of them, namely the state of Zenith-missile troops, radio-technical troops, logistics insurance and the problems of utilization. And in 2019, the state of defence capabilities of the armed forces allowed the tasks to be carried out on missions in national format and within NATO's collective defence and common security policy of the European Union to be carried out, notice, but with a time limit and volume of tasks performed. The limited financial resources, the large number of vacant posts, the outdated weapons continue to be among the main reasons that hinder the implementation of the adopted targets in full. Despite the increases in the wage of the servicemen in two consecutive years, on average by 10% and the implementation of the information campaign, the problem of the failure of the Bulgarian army was not solved. The Bulgarian army is completed at 79,27% of the state staff, with the incompetence by categories of servicemen and officers at 19%, officers candidates at 10 per cent, sergeants at 9 per cent, and soldiers, notice, 29%, which is the largest percentage. That is, the assembly of the Bulgarian Army in 2019 is maintained at the same levels as in 2018. Particularly serious is the problem of Land Troops and its resolution largely depends on the modernization projects of Land Troops, which must become a priority. The most serious percentage of failure in Land Troops is about 26%, of which, notice, junior officers and soldiers who are the backbone of Land Troops are 31%. Low levels of completion of the voluntary reserve are maintained......................................................................................... This calls for realistic and effective measures to be taken to improve the pay of the Bulgarian Army to become competitive in the labour market. Secondly, holding a permanent and positive media campaign to improve the image and attitude of society towards the military profession and its promotion. Absolutely solving the problems with the reserve and paying serious attention to mobilization and conducting it regularly, which in recent years has been greatly underestimated. In conclusion, the DPS parliamentary group will support the submitted report on the state of defence for 2019. This is what we said in the Commission, and here the group will support the project, taking into account the progress shown so far, but must continue the battle to ensure the Bulgarian army in the best way, regardless of material and financial difficulties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. I give Mr. Popov my word, unless there are lines before that. Are there any lines? I won't. You're welcome to come by procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Only a procedure for the admission of Deputy Minister Zapreyanov to enter the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u35	Thank you. We are voting on the procedure for the admission of Deputy Minister Zaprianov. I hope we can gather the necessary quorum. Colleagues didn't expect a vote this early, Mr. Popov. I ask the Quaestors to invite them if there are any MPs in the hallway. Vote 74 MPs: for 73, against none, abstention 1. Please invite Deputy Minister Zaprianov. We'll continue the discussion. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u36	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Minister! The report on the state of defence and the armed forces for the past 2019 is structured according to the government's decisions and the views of the Ministry of Defence on the policies it has led over the past year. It is commendable that in form and content the same tries to cover all the activities of the Ministry of Defence. I would say that everything positive that has happened over the past year has been reflected and there are even some data that are in excess and will benefit from some missions, perhaps. However, as a parliamentary group, we also have certain views on the main sections, as there are no thoughts and views in the report other than the factual situation in the future. We are concerned, for example, Section II, where it is said that women in the army have increased over the last five years from 14.8% to 16%. Even in recent years, their participation in missions has increased from 7% to 9.4%, which retains the incompletion in the army and is at the expense of the lack of young people or men to serve in the army. Back in the day, the commanders punished us for increasing the percentage of female servicemen in the mechanized units, especially in the mechanized battalions, and the ceiling was literally 5%. Although we respect the UN Security Council Resolution No 1325 on Women's Equality, Peace and Security, but the army is still an institute that gives more opportunities for men, especially the ranks. I believe that in this regard, although there is a great incompletion, we should not stagger and fill the army with a large percentage, but look for realization of the same in the other sectors of state construction. In this order of thought, I would say that the campaign "Be a soldier" played its part by visiting 31 cities and helping to preserve the non-completion, not to reduce it. We believe that if this campaign continues and should continue, all of us The report also pays great attention to the modernisation and purchase of the notorious eight F-16 Block 70 aircraft, for which the National Assembly had to double the funds that were allocated. We paid the entire amount at once, with which we doubled the defence budget and the ratio reached 3.14 per cent, even more, of gross domestic product. I say that such a coefficient in the coming years will never be reached and such a report that we have at the moment will not be read over the next few years and will also not account for such large costs.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u37	Is this just for the Land Troops?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u38	However, this is a precedent and it is not an excuse that in the past years we have allowed the modernization of the Land Forces to be delayed, and also of the Naval Forces because I see that Admiral Manushev is excited. Since this precedent already exists, why is this not done for example for the Land Forces or for the Navy?! I said in the Commission and again that I do not agree with the introduction of too many names in the modernisation of the Land Troops as the Single Centre for Initial Training, where there are two mechanized battalions, the Centre for the Training of Professionals with Three Tank Battalions or the Brigade Command with two mechanized battalions without a brig kit and the introduction of the name or position of the Head of Centres. When these formations are somewhat ranked as a brigade and we know that there are 12 types of brigades in NATO, but we could accept, for example, two titles of battle brigade and training brigade, and these centres to be brigades and their commanders to be commanders of brigades. Otherwise, we return in the 1980s and the so-called TUCs when we created such centres with the rank of brigade and division, and their commanders were head of centers. Although the vision for the development of the armed forces is currently in place, I would also suggest in the Defence Committee that, with the completion of the Strategic Review of Defence or its discussion, we should unify these names and also the posts of the commanders. I cannot agree that even the joint command of special operations is equalising to the Land Forces, although we have a duty to NATO to have special forces, and even to observe this ratio 30:30, and 30 for the special operations forces. Our army is not able to maintain all declared formations, and we must not fly away and in the future we must assume new obligations for both the Navy and others and for the Land Forces, as everything is done at the expense of national defence formations. We are filling in the declared forces of the Land Forces, Air Force, Naval and Special Operations Forces.......................and we do not have the resources to maintain these formations at a high level.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u39	Why?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u40	Because there's no money and there's no staff, even though every year there's an increase in personnel. Increases, improves pay, even efforts are made in the social sphere, but the army does not increase as combat capabilities. However, at the end of the report, the Ministry of Defence admits that all tasks are carried out with certain conditionalities by volume and time to perform the three missions for which we are preparing. With these remarks, our parliamentary group from Coalition BSP for Bulgaria will refrain from adopting the report, again saying: it shows everything that the Ministry of Defence has done and is to be done, but still can be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Milev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Deputy Minister! It has become a tradition for the Bulgarian Parliament to accept the Ministry of Defence's reports on the state of the armed forces in the previous year. This report is yet another one, and I would like to mention to share with you several characteristics, because hardly all colleagues have been able to get to know it in depth. The report is objective, which is essential for reporting the activity and state of one of the main elements guaranteeing the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria. The report is very detailed and analytical, and the colleagues who spoke before me, and I suppose there will be after me from the other parliamentary groups, perhaps they will mention that it is not analytical enough. On the contrary, its very title is about the state of defence and gives sufficient material and recommendations, and conclusions to improve the state of our armed forces. I would even mention a feature that is not always characteristic of such a report and of such an element of the structures of our national security. The report is highly critical! I say highly critical because it is manifest and accessible to absolutely everyone who would like to know its content. In the beginning the report reports on the basis of an analysis of where the Bulgarian Army is located, our armed forces and what is the state of our national security as its main element. The main conclusion that we all need to hear and we need to know is that in recent years, the strategic situation in the world and in the region has been steadily complicated. Apart from that, tensions and military opposition have increased significantly in the Black Sea region. These are things we can't miss. It has already begun to be a practice almost to change the military textbooks for a sustainable combination of hybrid and classical methods of fighting war. In this context, the report finds several things that can not be taken into account, but they must be of our attention because they have been the product of our work for dozens of years. It is that the armaments, the maintenance equipment, the equipment of our armed forces are outdated and with an expiration date. This is that in a significant number of cases General Simeonov mentioned it, there is a shortage, incompleteness of the divisions. It is that our interaction with NATO allies at a tactical and operational level is virtually impossible because we have an operational incompatibility based on the weapons and equipment we have. Last but not least, as a very important element, this is the continuing chronic financial uncertainty with the resources of our armed forces. In this regard, in addition to neglecting the problems of our armed forces for tens of years or staggering in one direction or in another with regard to reforms for cuts, for reducing the budget and so on, in recent years, including this, one element has been extremely sharpened, which we need to take into account the demographic emptying of entire regions of the Republic of Bulgaria by personnel who could take part in the ranks of the Bulgarian Army. What are the solutions? Our task to the politicians is, after we have accepted, I would not use the word "modernization" although it has been imposed in terminology for all three types of armed forces, I would suggest re-arming because we do not modernise ships, planes, or war machines, we create new complexes in these three families and types of armed forces. Our task is to make them irreversible both to the Air Force and to the Navy and to the Land Forces. Next thing. In order to overcome the shortage, the non-completion of personnel mainly in the Land Forces, but also in the rest of the Air Force and the Air Force, we honourable Members need to think about something else, although third, fourth and I do not know which consecutive year it will be, we will increase the salaries of the military personnel, we need to think about something else that is a broad practice in the NATO armies, to which we belong for more than 10 years. And this is an extension of the compensation kit for the servicemen and their families. I once again highlight the word "compensatory, social and economic package." This is not about the privileges of the servicemen, it is about compensation for their service 24 hours a day for our country, for the settlements, for our families. And one more thing, we need to make it clear that in addition to the notorious aircraft, ship and war machine, there are dozens more modernized re-arming projects that are extremely mandatory, because in two or three years' time we will have the most advanced aircraft in the Balkans and in the region, only if we do not have its corresponding communications and control system and if we do not replace the current radar stations with the most modern 3D radars, this aircraft will be like Danube Bridge 2 So it is our duty to consider these issues and then, when we are talking with full reason about raising pensions, raising social supplements, helping in this extremely severe economic crisis throughout the world of businesses in different ways, we must also think that there is a system. I would like to thank at this time all privates, sailors, sergeants, officers, generals and admirals in the Bulgarian Army that they have nevertheless resisted our army and is currently in extremely good condition as personnel and as performing our tasks in these conditions, which we have been looking at and will continue to talk about them, and will be such regardless of the difficulties in which they serve. I think we should do something maybe both legally and legally here, my colleague Radev is a much bigger specialist than I am, for a problem which in the report has been hit quite a bit by several paragraphs with the utilization of surplus ammunition in the army. It's a problem that could affect the lives of civilians that happened in my region, in the village of Gorni Lom. We don't have a solution to this right now, and we have to figure it out. He's not only scientific and technical, he's also financial, but I'm not a specialist, so I'm gonna let the experts say the word, the ministers offer the solutions. To conclude, I would like to say that the report, I thank the specialists and the experts who wrote it, led by the political leadership of the Ministry, says the following, which we should take into account that the Republic of Bulgaria with the Bulgarian Army, with our armed forces at international level, is accepted as a reliable, stable and predictable partner. The second, which is also very important to us, is that the Republic of Bulgaria is a key factor in the Balkans region and the Black Sea to ensure stability in the region. These are things we could hardly deny. Despite what has been reported and I share it, it is quite understandable, and I have addressed some of the reasons, it is to conclude that the Bulgarian army and our armed forces are performing their tasks in a limited volume, but they are performing them, guaranteeing our national security, guaranteeing our independence and territorial integrity. And since my colleagues insist, I want an extension of time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Toshev. Please extend the time of GERB's parliamentary group. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Vangelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! With a lot of the things Mr. Toshev said before me, I agree, so I'm gonna miss them so I don't have to repeat myself with him. I would like to say that we from the United patriots will support the report because it is ruthlessly accurate and is indeed one, in the literal sense, a real report on the state of defence for 2019. In addition to the content, the most valuable part is the conclusions and planning of future actions. There the conclusions are made very precisely, with great accuracy, and the information that the sentences and paragraphs themselves carry is enough to allow each paragraph to become a huge analysis. In the past years, and you know it, I will not say anything new, I will only remind it because we must not forget it: the Bulgarian army, especially the first 20 years of democracy, was brought, as the people say, to Körsokak. It was extremely humiliated, was brought with pseudo-reforms to a state in which it was never when we had an independent Bulgarian state, except perhaps the period after the New dictatorship. On some topics, such as the topic "Macedonia" we, whether we are ruling or from the opposition, are in full national consensus. This consensus includes not only the MPs, as far as Macedonia is concerned, but also the Prime Minister and the President. In my humble opinion, a similar subject of national consensus in parliament should also be the subject of defence. Therefore, I will allow myself, although each party is autonomous, to appeal to my colleagues from the BSP, again, by fully respecting the autonomy of each party: they can reflect on the issue of defence and include it in their priorities or their points of national consensus, as they have done on the topic. The subject of the Bulgarian army and the Bulgarian defence cannot really be party. Yes, we can remember, we can make different arguments, but it is good to always be united, putting the Bulgarian army and defending a kind of pedestal, as we have done on other topics. Before I finish, I will allow myself to quote a very brief paragraph of the Report, which will also be heard by those colleagues who have not come to know it in detail: despite the increase in defence spending compared to the previous year, they remain insufficient to compensate for the accumulated in the last 30 years of the Armed Forces' capabilities deficits, notice that there is no plan-dimensional, targeted and adequate investment in re-arming and modernisation. Therefore, current needs significantly exceed the resources that the country can afford to spare for defence. This is why we note with satisfaction the fact that last year the defence rate reached 3% of the gross domestic product, even exceeded them, and that the plan for increasing defence spending is followed to reach 2%. This year will be very crucial in this respect because we will see what economic consequences the pandemic will have and hopefully there are no quite emergency situations that will prevent 2% of gross domestic product by 2024. It would be good in the coming years after 2024, depending on the state of the economy of the state, to consider even an increase above 2%, as those 2% that Bulgaria has negotiated and agreed on are not a ceiling, but a minimum that the NATO Member States must reach in terms of defence. That's what I'm finishing my speech with. I repeat, we of the United Patriarchs will support the report. I call on the subject of defence to be truly outpartisan and consensual! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Vangelov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Tsonkov. I saw that you were hesitating, but perhaps your speech will also be the last for the debate. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u46	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Minister! Today we are discussing another report on the state of defence and the armed forces. I would like to start with a finding that we from BSP for Bulgaria do when comparing the reports of the last few years. The statement is as follows, using military jargon: The Bulgarian army marches in one place. Why do we think that? Because all the findings that are being made and the few conclusions that we have at the end in the Report, comparing them with the latest reports, we will see that in addition to the basic finding and the conclusions that are being made, there are two new words lodged that the restrictions in which the Bulgarian Army and the armed forces carry out their tasks are limited by volume and time. By referring them to the conclusions that were drawn last year, two years ago in fact, we will see that everything that is said is the same, which means that the condition of the Bulgarian army is obviously not improving. We are not saying that we do not see the government's efforts in this direction. He works, thinks about the development of the Bulgarian Army. We do not deny that. Modernization projects have started, which we also support. But if we remove last year from the costs of gross domestic defence product The Air Force Modernization Project, we will see that the growth in defence spending is only 0.11%, honourable Members, and we boast that we are acquiring new capabilities, we are implementing a project. It is underway, but we have not yet built these abilities, which are vital to the Bulgarian Army and the Air Force. I would like to say a few words in general about the report itself. In fact, what does the Defense and Armed Forces Report show? Every year it gives an assessment to the government for the management of this sector, for progress, if any, in this sector, what results have been achieved. Well, since the reports in recent years are almost the same, where did you see the progress? We from BSP for Bulgaria also want the Bulgarian Army to be modern, combatable, not to have a problem with an incompletion of the Bulgarian Army, to have completed the personnel, to have high combat readiness and preparation, but in practice the facts, the information which is presented to us, which, by the way, is not small, shows a very different thing. Starting at the beginning with the general view of the report, I would like to say that it is not well-subscribed enough as a structure, does not respond, does not correspond to the reports in the defence sphere, which are at the lower level. It is more like a mechanical collection of facts and information that are served, which have an important task with them the Ministry of Defence and the military leadership should acquaint the public, the National Assembly with the results and the state in this sector, how the armed forces develop. In this sense, I do not accept the findings or rather the thesis of some of the Members of the National Assembly that you see this report is analytical. On the contrary, it's just a data transfer. It is another to strengthen the analysis, and when these information and data are interpreted, then the report itself will acquire another form, there will be a serious evaluation element and it will show what the prospects for development are, we will link it to the priorities of the government, we will bind it to have a close relationship with the basic doctrine documents, such as the Defence Development Program by 2032, which we have yet to develop, such as the Development Plan of the Armed Forces, such as the Investment Plan of the Bulgarian Army. I therefore do not accept the findings that this report, both from a general perspective and structure, is good enough. What are the main three problems, if we have to identify them, which are visible when we talk about the state of the armed forces? Naturally, in the first place, the serious incompletion that exists in the Bulgarian Army, which we have seen for ten years that it continues to exist and cannot be found the right solution. This year, we also adopted new changes in order to resolve the shortage of personnel. And what do the reports show? 79,27% is the completion of the Bulgarian Army. More disturbing is the fact that the largest type of armed forces You answer me if we can in this way talk about enough fighting ability that military formations have in the Land Forces. By referring this alarming fact to the declared objectives of capabilities that are barely spoken of in the Defence and Armed Forces Report, we will see that we have not actually made great progress in building defence capabilities that we have declared to NATO's collective defence, and, naturally, declared military formations, certified ones. The second major problem, of course, is outdated weapons and equipment. That is why we are also doing modernisation projects, but there are much smaller projects that need to be implemented. We must not fool ourselves because, returning to the Air Force Modernization Project, the new planes cannot fly or be fully used if we do not have modern radars. And you know it. That's why I see the Ministry is working that way. The third major problem is the financial shortage of funds. However, there is another issue here. Every year in recent years, we have increased the wages of the servicemen by ten percent. Administrations for that! We increase with a little capital expenditure and alimony, but by imposing resource security on defense capabilities because we need to make such a connection and analysis based on the costs we make, are we getting more defense capabilities, are we improving the situation? Obviously, we are trying to contain the condition that exists at the moment to avoid more erosion of the defense capabilities we have than to build new ones. And a few more words on the contents of the report. I can't help but notice the security environment assessment. It is directly related to the defense capabilities that we need to build. For me, it is not clear what the purpose of this assessment is. Too chaotic has been made this assessment of the security environment, and hence, of course, there is no way to make this connection with the defence capabilities that the armed forces and the Bulgarian army should possess. Very little space is allocated in terms of strategic review, legal framework and doctrinal documents. There, too, should be paid more serious attention. To be precise, we have only a timid hint of the review of the legal and doctrine base on page 29, one § 48. That's it. And here is the place when we talk about the doctrinal base, to talk about career development, the long-term vision for the personnel development of the armed forces and the Bulgarian army. It is directly related to the basic documents, such as the Program for the Development of Defence Capabilities, to the Plan for the Development of the Armed Forces. In the end, I'd like to mention something else. Speaking of collective security, the data that is being exported about our contribution to collective defence, for example, nothing is mentioned about the London Summit and what arises for Bulgaria from this meeting. This is also related to engagements with defense capabilities, if you will at a lower level with formations. How do the events that took place within NATO affect the defence system and the processes that are developing there, what do they lead to? For all these reasons and the arguments that I have made so far, we at the BSP for Bulgaria are unable to support the report on the state of defence and the armed forces and will abstain from the upcoming vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonkov. - What's the line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, before I talk about the Report, I would like to return things a little bit and tell some things in the story, because our opposition colleagues seem to be forgetting. The first government of Boyko Borisov adopted a new Law on Defence and Armed Forces and there is a art. 23, where it is said that a report on the state of defence is being prepared, it shall be submitted to the National Assembly and a decision shall be taken. So you are only talking now because we have ever adopted such a decision and there is such a report. Nobody's ever done that before. Your Stanishev government didn't. Since then, 11 reports have been produced, including BSP, made one report during Oresharski's time. I remember very well Minister Angel Naydenov the second half of 2013 and there a sentence, I can quote it, here I had noted it, but it was as if So you've also done a report like this. From 2009 to 2019 the report contains eight chapters. I can tell you by name. Nothing's changed! I answer to what you're saying should look different. And it became clear in the Commission that such are international rules. Where we are participating in NATO, and there, more or less, such criteria, such chapters and such matters, the state of defence shall be dealt with. So much for that. And one more thing to add, I have said it many times "GERB" in national security is a legislator. We made the rules. Remember the three law of service. GERB made it the first government. The second, 2015, adopted including the Law on the functioning of the system, where it is written, by the way, that the services are preparing reports, all the services of the National Assembly, the DAR, are preparing reports. I was impressed by the fact that only the Ministry of Interior does not prepare a report on the state, for example, of internal security and public order. Maybe this is a pass. All this is put into a system, GERB has done it and we are now practicing on what is the state of defence and the armed forces, because there is order in this system of national security. Specifically for the report. The report must answer two questions, i.e. several questions, but the main question is: what is the state of defence and the armed forces? A photo for last year's report takes a picture for last year, and you and I, as opposition, should look at whether it is objective, whether it is saying things correctly or not. With the brief answer, yes, I believe that the report is objective, critical and says things exactly as they are. Many details may be requested from the Report and remarks to it, but in general the picture of the state of defence and the armed forces is accurate. Besides that the rules have been the same since 2009, and there has been comparability, the truth has been told. The colleague from the coalition government, from the patriots, said he was critical and objective. I agree with that. I have comments on him, I will tell you, and I have told them in the Commission. I can't and I don't agree with what my colleague Tsonkov said. I'm trying to quote it, I've written down what's been done and almost a lot of things are missing in the report. It's not like that! Pay attention, it's all written in there. Whether there is an analysis or not, there are findings there, described almost everything we need in the field of defence and the armed forces and the positive parties and the negatives. Here are some of the problems that I have also said in the Commission, I will now complete. I agree with you on a 26 percent non-completion. I always ask myself the question: OK, 26% for the Land Forces, which are the backbone of the army? It's a lot, but a strategic review is coming up. Should I take you back over the years? At one time, there was talk of the army being 28,000 bayonets. Maybe there shouldn't be so many after all these years, in the last few, come on, not so much, we can't bring this doppler. Something's not working. The reserve is 13% alone. That's amazing! You didn't mention it. Here, I'm telling you that too. Why is this happening? So there's something that's a little out of the hands of the Department of Defense, and it has to be considered why that is? I, for example, am amazed at these 26%, of course, and the other non-completion, you said it, not to repeat it around 20% for the entire army, after raising the wages by 10%, this year by 10%, by 30% increase in wages. We buy new equipment, there's motivation for people to join the army. Why isn't it working? We raised the age by three years to serve, and hop, uncompletion for the young officers and soldiers. This is Deputy Minister Zapreyanov, you must think very carefully. I think it's not just a matter of the Department of Defense. There's something else, and I told you one of the reasons that we might not need so much bayonet. But that's just one option, I'm not sure that's true. The second thing, I said in the Commission. There are some tablets that, again, I say, quite detailed is written.. 100% teachings. Yes, but these same military are asking themselves some teachings, the same teachings are being appreciated and said: "We did them 100%. " Admiral Eftimov isn't here, but the Deputy Minister is here. It should also be considered to change the evaluation system. Someone else to do the tasks and evaluate. We control Parliament, but something does not. So they're doing some teaching... I immediately ask myself the question: well, how did the abilities change? Isn't that the most important thing for the defense and the armed forces?! This is not clear from these 100 percent fulfilled teachings or not fulfilled for example. There is Europe, there is NATO, we need to see what the good example is. The imbalanced balance of this many times, both I and my colleagues have stressed it, and here it is. The ground troops, the Air Force, the Navy, this balance must be straightened out. We can't pass now, I think 3.19 has become the percentage of gross domestic product for the army as money. He was never like that. The balance is broken. This should also be upright. Good for you for giving up so much money now. For the first time, you're wrong. This is the first time you've bought combat vehicles. Do I need to remind you of what you were doing before when you had the most money for the army, Mr. Stanishev's government? Only means of transport. I'm not gonna stop saying that! It wasn't Spartan, it wasn't Cougars, it was all kinds of machines we didn't buy and there was no fighting gear. Now we give the money there and go three billion. In NATO they applaud, but we are also pleased because there is a perspective for people as well. This fat must be highlighted. This makes him the third government of GERB. I also made the effort to see from the Management Program, which I think colleague Tsonkov mentioned. We've done almost everything there, and there's almost another year. Come on, nine months. There are three things that are not fulfilled, however, and I am obliged to say them as a matter of fact, although I am not an opposition, but they are not. The handicap there is said that it should be said that there are nine more months, but I do not know how they will deal with these 26% land or 20% for the army. That's one. I've written down my measurements. It doesn't matter what the numbers are. Filling in the reservation I told you.. 13%, there it is written that the reserve must be filled. I've told you a non-completion of 13% is only filled. And the third, the construction of the Cyber Security Military Operations Centre, measure 312. This I have been able to see, which has not yet been implemented, that is, the Management Program has been implemented. And then the logical conclusion, I conclude, is that this report, apart from being objective, has criticism inside, there are analyses, gives us the general picture of last year what is happening with the defence and the armed forces, and something else has a perspective. There is also talk in the Commission that the strategic review is coming. There are expected some new things, again related to what has been mentioned here, with the international situation, with what is happening in the world, with the countries around us? So, naturally, GERB will support the report. I have no hope that you will support it, but let us all be a little more humble when it comes to defence and armed forces, and be as objective as possible. Personally, I'm satisfied. I would like to congratulate everyone who has worked on the report, of course, the government and colleagues from the Ministry of Defence for their efforts and for giving us an objective and accurate assessment of what is happening in the defence and the armed forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u49	Thank you, Mr. Radev. The line, Mr. Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Minister! Yes, I agree that the report is critical after the facts and data have been presented, but the conclusions are not real enough and fair on the basis of the information that has been released, because this information shows how bad the state of defence and the armed forces is. Mr. Radev, you said only 13% of the voluntary reserve was completed. However, this is also evidence of obviously the management weakness that exists in this case and the Reserve Act, which has been adopted, so it is made clear that it does not create any incentives and conditions for civilians to go volunteers in the reserve. By the way, this is a fact from the Report from a thousand vacant posts that have been announced, we have only 36 signed contracts for the voluntary reserve. You said cyber defense, cyber defense. That's where we started doing something from last year. No results are mentioned in the report what is happening, and this is an important topic that we should not ignore. Cyber-defense, cyber security, cyber-defense are important defense capabilities that the armed forces must have. We have always said from BSP to Bulgaria that we should pay attention [[the President signals that time has run out]] of the social package that Mr. Toshev is talking about. The compensation should be more for the servicemen. Obviously, only the salary is not enough to create conditions. We want to have the army as it was when Mr. Hristov was in the ranks of the Bulgarian Army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u51	Thank you, Mr. Tsonkov. Second line, Mr. Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Deputy Minister! Dear Mr. Radev, thank you for your sincere speech. You and the Commission have spoken so critically, but still the army is a depoliticized institute, and as we speak from this tribune and go back in time to which party has been in power and what it has done for the army, I believe we will not achieve what we all want. Therefore, I call for unity in the name of the army and let us import projects for the Bulgarian Army, import them on behalf of, I would say, all parliamentary groups and help it finally take a decent place in society. Even these three priorities have not been fulfilled last year. The first two will not be fulfilled in the coming years, whichever government is in power. It's about the non-completion with personnel and even modernization. I believe that cybersecurity, this centre will happen and we are bound to do so, it cannot bother you, but I still want, when we speak from this tribune, not to go back with the years of what government, in what year, what has done or has not done, because it does not help the Bulgarian army to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u53	Thank you, Mr. Milev. Third line? I can't see. Mr. Radev, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Reserve Act, when you say it wasn't.. 13%, is so completed. Actually, yes, there is a problem, but this law and we wrote it. I regret to return, Mr. Milev, but GERB made this law for the reserve a new law. We laws that we passed months ago, then we changed them.... why not change this one too. There's obviously a problem. I'm not saying it's an ideal law, I was also involved in it, the first GERB government. There hasn't been any before, you know we've changed the army, we've removed the recruitment service, these are changes that haven't happened for decades, and maybe in the century there hasn't been anything like this. There must be some defect in this law or some problems in it....we will change it and I am talking about the reply of the colleague. I only mentioned cyber-defense for fullness of the exhibition because I saw it wasn't done. In fact, I will tell you about the conversation between me and the Prime Minister: I have persuaded him to participate with military forces, I am talking about Europe, to come to the border, we are talking about migrants. To come here I want to see Germans, as you think there, Austrians, Hungarians, come to guard the common border, not us with naked breasts in front of the country with less resources. Do you know what he said to me? No, no, I'm not going to say that there was a forum. That's where I'm gonna want other money. Do you know how much money it takes for cybersecurity? It was his cue there was the huge money, there I had to convince them to give money for it. And us, of course. This is not a matter that can only be solved by our country. " - This was his assessment and I agreed, I said: okay. And that's very important. Perhaps this is the path to solving this problem. We've done something, the Navy has done, as I understand it, at the naval school, the first step. The social package yes, you will always talk about a social package. What is the most important of the social package? I don't know if it's the most important thing, but I think it's very important that these are the salaries. Well, we're raising them to 10, 10, this year again 10%. We don't touch anything, we don't touch anything, we don't touch anything, we don't touch anything, we don't touch anything, and it's in the report. What don't you like about it? You socialists like to spend, but... Mr. Milev, don't go back. I can't help but come back while you're criticizing un-eectively, I think, of course, that's my assessment. I am obliged to remind you who makes and puts the violets in national security legislation. You need to be more robbed here and confess. You say it, I won't say it, say it you: GERB made this law, well, they did so that there is a report, but we have comments. Tell me why you're even talking about a report!? That's what I mean. And one more thing about the army. What don't you like about the army? I have read in the report....................................................................................... If that's the case, they've gone straight to the Church. I hope so. It was 45%. Once it was, but once, as you mentioned, to go back, that just couldn't happen. Once upon a time, when Mr. Christov served, it was a whole other thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u55	Thank you, Mr. Radev. Mr. Mihov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u56	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Hristov, I will not start with the expression when we served together, because we remember it very well, but I will start with a paraphrase: Bulgaria in the last 150 years has had a single ally and this ally is called the Bulgarian Army. I'm saying this to stress the importance of the subject. Here someone has mentioned the world's environment and we must make it clear that today wars do not begin in the traditional sense of declaring war in which the attacker announces the day and time of the start of the war. Today the attacks are carried out without such gentlemen's gestures, and the military action is conducted by soldiers and planes with no distinguishing marks, by drones, and those who are attacked understand the consequences of the news only. I am also saying this in another aspect of the purely geographical. One big country, our neighbor, took one peninsula from another big country, also our neighbor, and turned it into a powerful military base literally on our borders. Another neighboring country of ours decades ago took part of an island and created its own country, and today it sends research ships to explore and exploit the marine riches of this island. This is the time to go back to what I said that we have the only ally proven in the decades and more than 150 years of our armed forces, and that determines the importance of this report. I would not like to agree that the report shows that nothing changes. It may be similar to the previous reports in the last three years, which Minister Karakachanov and his ministry have imported, but for the third year in a row we will increase and increase the salaries of people under a pagon by 10%. Yes, it is repeated that, for the third consecutive year, we are implementing the three modernization projects and the issue of a financial organizational and contractual country for the quality modernization of the Air Force has been resolved and it is a question of its implementation that we are on the verge of finalising the process in the Navy that the process in the Land Forces is advanced. I do not understand when the opposition is sincere when it criticises today that we are moving too slowly these projects and that we are not giving enough money, or when only a month ago they convinced us how we should freeze these projects, because we are in the worst epidemic, which is obviously today on the streets of Bulgaria as if it is not, as if it is over?! In this sense, I think that the opposition should support this report because it is so critical that it can be a flag of the opposition for criticism against the government that they have not done their job to the end. However, this position to abstain the opposition in the face of the BSP is somewhat unspoken and unacceptable because the main issue in this report is the following: the question of the long-term financing of the Bulgarian defence. Yes, when we served with Mr. Hristov, the official defence budget in the 1980s was 17% of gross domestic product. The hidden defense costs were far more and yet the historians do not know exactly how many yet. In 2000, Bulgaria released 2.7% of gross domestic defence product. Today it is 1.61%, last year due to the one-time payment, we reached a decent level. But this is the question of whether the political forces, those who claim responsible and national behaviour and politics, will unite around the idea that the necessary means of defence should be allocated long-term, consistent, over a relatively long period of time, regardless of the political changes in the country. Because only then can we break this trend in the last 20 or more years of erosion of the country's defense capabilities, no matter what we call them in the reports. If we have responsible national behavior, we must unite and say that in the next 10 years or more the army needs sufficient resources because we must support our ally. International relations, treaties, military commitments are important factors, but above all, the capabilities of a country guarantee its national security. I conclude that the support of this report is also support for the idea of a coherent policy in defence, guaranteed by the necessary funds, both next year and decades ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u57	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Colleagues, thank you for taking me back years. I don't know what happened. By the way, the SNR station, which is in the Military History Museum of the complex "Crugue" is the one on which I served as a young officer 63-12-39. The line, Mr. Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Deputy Minister! Dear Associate Professor Mihov, I'm taking a line just because you didn't take the advice I tried to give earlier at my cue. And you're taking us back years again....who, what and how, and you're looking for enemies around Bulgaria. We still have an analytical institution that should be giving us these threats, and I, as a military man, can say that we do not currently have such data for any direct threats against Bulgaria. And who does what from his point of view? With regard to what we have done in the army, and I, mentioning Mr. Hristov, can tell you that in the years of the greatest failure in the Bulgarian Army, perhaps in 2008 It is very easy to say: certification, declaration, combat, but we know what it means to prepare a formation to appear before a NATO committee and the Bulgarian Army to protect Bulgaria, what efforts these commanders then make on the ground to be able to meet the requirements we currently have on them. We should not speak politically from this tribune, especially about the Bulgarian army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u59	Thank you, Mr. Milev. Any other lines? I can't see. Mr. Mihov, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u60	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! General Milev, I was speaking in the opposite sense of political speaking, perhaps. I hope that when we have the strategic defence review, we will approach it in another way, because this will be the basis on which we need to build the political programmes of our forces precisely in terms of long-term sustainability in defence policy. Since we have all, or most, served in the Bulgarian People's Army, I am tempted to say only one sentence: it was strong because it stepped on the military tradition of the previous decades. Our army was built by the readings, by the Legias, by the militia, by the army of the earth, by the army of the king, and by the army of the people. She was a continuation in the military sense, and that's why she was strong. In order to restore the power of the army, we must follow this principle. This is briefly my thesis, and I think we have a basis for dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u61	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Ermenkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u62	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the floor so that I can give you the opportunity to rest afterwards, because we will abstain, and I do not see that there are enough others to vote to accept the report, but not just because of that. As we have started talking about the strategic review that we are going to do here, I would just like to remind you that we of the opposition from the very first day in the composition of this National Assembly and the Defence Committee have raised the question of the need for such a strategic review. If you open the transcripts of the Commission's meetings, you will see how rarely the ruling majority opposed the need to do so. Only at the third year it became clear that the strategic review is essential for the development of the Bulgarian Army, because it defines the overall framework of what and how we should do it, where we are now and where we will be tomorrow. Otherwise, here, when we talk about the State of Defense and the Armed Forces of Bulgaria is an accurate picture of what happened - yes, it is a picture, but it is an element of a mosaic that is irrelevant to the other elements of the mosaic, because we do not know exactly what picture we want and what we want to achieve. Because when we talk about an uncompletion in the armed forces, we don't know if it's an incompletion that's vital for the armed forces to exist, or if it's something that we have, but it won't give us any more abilities, nor will it be necessary to carry out those tasks that the new strategic review will give us. Because when we talk about defense status, I want to remind you of art. 3, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces, where it is said: The defence of the Republic of Bulgaria is a system of political, economic, military, social and other activities to ensure a stable environment of security and to prepare and implement armed protection of the territorial integrity and independence of the state. Without knowing what the ambitions are, without knowing exactly what we want to achieve, what exactly does it mean to achieve armed protection of the territorial integrity and independence of the state and with what powers and funds this should be achieved, there is no way to know if we have an incompletion, whether we have a lack of funding, whether the state gives more or less money. And that is what is lacking in this report. The state in order to give us an objective assessment of what we need in order to be able to carry out as an armed force the work we need. In this regard, I strongly call on the Ministry of Defence, once this strategic review has passed, to comply with this point. Article 6 16 of the Law, which I mentioned, where the National Assembly determines the number of armed forces and adopts programmes for their development on a proposal from the Council of Ministers. I hope the Council of Ministers will take care of its work so that we can solve once and for all the problems with the necessary numbers, with the necessary weapons. The other thing I want to say to you: yes, we share that there is a disbalance in the development of the armed forces. Yes, I would even say a priority development of one project at the expense of all the others at the expense of the Air Force, at the expense of the Land Troops and the Navy. We have a very consistent funding policy because, when you submitted the three projects to Parliament, we supported them, but we supported them within a reasonable time frame, with reasonable payments and reasonable expenditures on the state budget, rather than throwing out a huge amount of money for only one type of armed forces at the expense of the others. Because when we talk about carrying out armed protection of the territorial integrity and independence of the state, the Air Force is hardly leading in this regard. Yes, they have a role to play, but when you don't have land troops, when you have no one to guard your sea border, there's no way you can accomplish this task. And when you spent two billion on this type of armed forces that have a supporting role in this task, and the main role that the other two types of armed forces have not funded, and you have not covered that in the Report, this report cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u63	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Are there any lines, coworkers? I won't. We interrupt work for 30 minutes. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u64	Dear Mr. Popov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u65	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mr. Deputy Minister! Please do not accept my words as a generalisation, but rather as a personal opinion. I will, of course, repeat a lot of things, because the report is the same, but I think it is important that I deal with the issues raised. First, the structure of the Report. For those who are not aware, the structure of this type of report was discussed at the Ministry of Defence many years ago with the participation of military expertise, political leadership, and was presented to MPs at the time. And, of course, there has never been a debate on this structure, allowing myself here to express a personal opinion that, of course, anything can change at any time. The important thing is to make sense of it. Secondly, the report is objective. I think that we can agree to all find common speech on this subject. There is always a danger when this is one final report, because this will be the last report that this National Assembly will most likely accept on the state of defence and the armed forces. There is the temptation to present things in a more rosy light. The fact is not presented in a pink light, and I think it accurately reflects the state of the army, as is the title of the report. About the analytical part. Yes, there is a comparison between the year 2019. Of course, the analysis system itself and the achievement of these conclusions is not described, but there are conclusions, there is a focus on the efforts in the coming years. The analysis mechanism is in the system we're developing at the Department of Defense. You know that analysis is done in the brigades, the bases, then in the types of armed forces, at the end of the defense is done an analysis, and these conclusions, these directions are generally formulated then. In fact, what's done in defense? Is that enough? Do you think it's okay for more? There's always more! We cannot, however, ignore the fact that there is a breakthrough in the way of thinking when it comes to the modernization of the army. I'm talking about thinking. We've witnessed over the years when we were happy to talk about defense, with the clear awareness that you're not going to do any modernization, but you're going to hand it over to the next one after you. Here we cannot fail to take serious success both at the political level and at the military-technical level. I think it's wise to say, and we will unite around this position that the recovery of the air school was also a success. It was a success which, of course, should develop to give the result that we all expect. There was talk of a budget of 3.17. How efficiently this budget is spent is the subject of a long conversation, but there is definitely a restoration of technique at stake, definitely more teachings, which speaks for better preparation, that is to say there is no lack of it and to hold on, and to wonder what to do. We're up 10%, which is not too small. I hope that the figures sound dry, but imagine the 10% growth of the countries of the European Union as gross domestic product, what it means. We're up 10% here! That means 10% better preparation in just one year. Of course, many participations in terms of missions, in terms of helping the population. This is all an enormous effort. I believe that the people of the armed forces, the Ministry of Defense, should be recognized this work. They have to be recognized by the public! Negativism does not have a good effect on motivation or combat spirit. When we listen to strange speeches from all directions that we don't have an army, that our army is broken and so on, it doesn't help us. I hope that with the positive messages, with the budget that the armed forces deserve, the Bulgarian Army, we will be able to really build a good army. Of course, I also share the focus of efforts, but I will allow myself to say a few words using the possibility that there is Deputy Minister Zaprianov here. The strategic review is very important. It is very important to complete it in time, to outline the guidelines. Nothing's ever been like that. Everything has plans. Our plans are running out, our programs are running out. The important thing is that we do something serious with horizon 2032. The Parliament should adopt the Defence Capacity Development Programme. I can give a personal opinion, I hope that this will be taken into account in the review, or appreciated, but we really need to hold on to military expertise so that political leadership can have the right information and the right recommendation. I would like to say here that I think it is very important in this direction that the Defence Skills Council find its more dignified place in decision making. It is very important to carry out what is written in the Law, in full volume, that the Defense Headquarters be a strategic headquarters with all its functions, which deserves a strategic headquarters. It is really important that things become complete in this strategic review of the security system and understand from both of us and the public that defence is not solely the responsibility of the Ministry of Defence, but is the responsibility of all structures and of every citizen, as written in the Constitution of Bulgaria. I would like to thank the people who have worked on the Report, and most importantly, the people who have filled this report with content, because it is clear to me how difficult it is to do a battalion exercise with planning, preparation, carrying out and so on. That can't be described in a report like this. Thank you for your efforts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u66	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Are there any lines? We continue with the speeches. Are there any other statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I'll introduce you to: Project! DECISION adopting a Report on the State of Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2019 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 23 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Adopts the Report on the State of Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2019 Please vote. They voted 123 MPs: 93, none, abstention 30. The motion is accepted. Let's move on to the next point: REPORT ON THE COMMISSION'S ACTION FOR ENERGY AND WATER REGULATION FOR 2019 The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission is the importer. Mr. Nikolov, you have the floor to introduce us to the Energy Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, please, on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure to make a procedure for the admission of Mr. Ivan Ivanov, Chairman of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulation, and Members: Mrs. Evgenia Haritonova, Mrs. Svetla Todorova, Mr. Alexander Yordanov, Mr. Vladko Vladimirov, Mr. Georgi Zlatev, Mr. Dimitar Kochkov and Mrs. Remzi Osman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u68	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the proposal for admission made in this House. Vote 98 MPs: 96, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite the composition of the Commission to the House. Please continue, dear Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on the activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission for 2019, No 020-00-8, submitted by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission on 30 March 2020. At its regular meeting held on 14 May 2020, the Energy Commission examined, discussed and voted on a Report on the activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission for 2019, No 020-00-8, submitted by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission on 30 March 2020. The meeting was attended by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission: Mr. Ivan Ivanov, Chairman, and Mrs. Rositsa Totkova, Secretary-General. On behalf of the importers, the report was presented by Mr. Ivan Ivanov, pointing out that the Commission in the past 2019 continued its activities to build the regulatory framework to create a sustainable regulatory framework for Bulgarian energy in the period of further liberalisation of the electricity market. The Commission conducts an annual pricing policy aimed at protecting the public interest, taking into account the financial situation of Bulgarian citizens. In 2019, the independent regulator, in close cooperation with the Energy Commission, fulfilled the tasks assigned to it relating to the demand regulation in the sector................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. During the past year, the regulator has conducted a consistent policy of stabilizing electricity prices and for the five-year period of the current composition, price changes are proportionate to the accumulated inflation. The adoption of the business plans of the water companies and the control of their implementation is also significant, the contribution of the KEWRC to establishing an active natural gas market and to the progress of important infrastructure projects in the gas sector, as well as to our country's accession to the united European electricity market. Describing the Commission's main tasks for energy and water regulation in 2020, the regulator's chairman highlighted the priority importance of liberalising the wholesale electricity market and developing capacity mechanisms for the next 5 years in order to protect coal plants. The Commission considers it particularly important and the regulatory support of the projects for diversification of natural gas supply and for expanding our transmission system, which will preserve Bulgaria's role as an important gas distribution centre in the Balkans. Following the end of the discussion and on the basis of the vote, Mr President, I would like to say that, in relation to the Report which has been tabled, there is a factual error and I will now correct it: instead of with 17 votes for the Council, with 12 votes for the Council, without the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory on 30 March 2020, and the Committee for Energy and Water Regulation proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a report on the activity of the Commission for 2019, No 020-08, submitted by the Commission for Energy and Water Regulation on 30 March 2020, and attached to it a draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u70	Would you like to present the Project for a solution?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u71	Project! DECISION on the 2019 Energy and Water Regulatory Commission Activity Report The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 10, para. 3 of the Energy Act HAS DECIDED Adopts the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission's Activity Report for 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u72	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I am opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Ermenkov, I see you're making a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u73	Dear Mr President, honourable Members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will start my speech by saying that the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party will vote abstention on this report and I will try to justify why it is so. Firstly, something that I think will not surprise the members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, because we say every year, according to the structure of the report. Moreover, this report is the last to be composed of the Commission, which started work five years ago. We hoped in the report to summarize in the end, however, not only the successes that have been achieved, but also what problems there are in the sector and, above all, what problems there are in the functioning of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, what obstacles it has encountered, what has prevented it from being able to fulfil its obligations, and what recommendations it would make to the next configurations of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission in order to enable these weaknesses and difficulties that it has faced to be overcome, including, if necessary, legislative changes to be taken. It's the Philosophy of the Report. The report does reflect a large part of the activity that the Commission carried out during this year. There are quantitative, there are qualitative assessments. This gives us reason not to vote against the report, however, only to abstain. Since there are also a few shortcomings which I think should be answered, I hope that the Members present in the Commission and, above all, the Chair of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, if they do not take away their attention there, will be able to respond to them. The first question, which has no answer in the Commission's Energy and Water Regulatory Report in 2019, is: what is the result of the Commission's decline in energy and water regulation revenues from fines and penalties, whether less checks have been carried out, has the company's activities improved, which is why there are fewer sanctions? In my opinion, this question had to find its answer in the Report, so that we still know how the activity was developing. Moreover, given the changes we have made and the question of the self-financing of the Commission from its work, this is a feather that interests the MPs: how and how is it formed and why is there a reduction from last year? The second question, which is more interesting, is the question which concerns the Commission's direct role in energy and water regulation as a regulator of public relations between consumers and energy providers, water and sewage services and the way it communicates with citizens and the exchange of information. Because there's a number in the report that bothers me personally. Of the 28 cases that are under the Public Information Access Act, 24 are lost, four are in a state of consideration at the moment, which gives me reason to ask: why exactly did this happen? This means that the Commission most likely refused to provide information, after which the court forced it to provide it. Does this fact enhance the authority of the Commission and the trust of the people in it and the transparency of its work? And another question that we have asked several times last year, you told us that because we had very soon amended the Law in which we regulate your activity, and therefore you cannot give us information. What happened to the checks that had to be done regarding the doubts about manipulation of the Bulgarian independent electricity exchange? Checks which the Commission started the year before. Last year you said you didn't have time to prepare. I hope you have time this year and we will still get this information, because this concerns the price of electricity for large industrial enterprises, concerning the price of electricity that comes into the price of final goods and ultimately affects the whole economy of the state and its competitiveness. For these reasons, the philosophy, as I said, of the Law and its structure, and the ambiguity on these three issues, the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party will refrain from voting on this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u74	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Are there lines? We continue with the speeches. Statements, coworkers? Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear colleagues! We will support the Commission report, not for anything else, but because the Commission has established itself as an absolutely professional committee. I would therefore like to congratulate both its President and all the commissioners on the professionalism with which they approach the work of the committee itself. The Commission not only with this annual report, and with the five-year term of President Ivanov really imposed professionalism in the first place and was able to establish itself as an absolutely independent regulatory body to sit at an equal distance from both consumers and suppliers and producers of this service and politicians. That's why I really want to congratulate them on their work. With the change in the last year in the laws, we have delegated much more rights to the Commission, respectively, and more commitments that we have delegated with the change of laws to implement. I am talking about setting up the Gas Exchange, setting up the Electricity Independent Exchange, these are all commitments that have been delegated to the Commission's rights, which, in turn, leads to more commitments, more capacity that the Commission had to define. In the debates in the Energy Commission on the occasion of the report, it became clear that there is still a failure in the Commission's personnel provision. But it became clear that this provision was very specific, with very serious specialists, given the work they had to do in monitoring the Gas Exchange and the Electricity Exchange respectively. I would like to draw your attention to something that I think is very important: the problem that sits before the Commission with the provision of a building fund, infrastructure, including jobs, which, given the specifics of work, are specific to the situation. I therefore call on us to really ensure that the Commission is provided with what it needs so that it can professionally, respectively, require that both we and professionally do their job. Thank you for your attention. As I said, we will support the report and congratulations on the Commission's professionalism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u76	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. - What's the line? We continue with the speeches. Mr. Nikolov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members, Commissioners! The most important merit of this committee is that it is independent and this guarantees it the professionalism of the commissioners who participate in it, and secondly, that they are proposed by different groups in parliament. I mean, if she had any addiction, she'd know about it and come up with information about it. This is what makes this committee particularly valuable because it is independent, it decides very important things in an important sector of our public life and in the economy. There were many challenges also in front of the five-year report. Last year, a gas exchange was set up for the first time, for which the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission should react. We know that the reform in the water sector and prices, where somewhere reflected an increase in the business plans presented by the relevant associations, was not understood from anywhere. After all, we had no choice but to do so because we saw what was happening in Pernik that it could be multiplied in any region if no measures were taken in this sector and the investments to be made. So I congratulate the Commission on the sustainability that it has succeeded, firstly, to help draw up these business plans, and secondly, that it has succeeded in adopting them. In the end, this is the basis on which investments must be made and in which, of course, after the forthcoming reform, to see exactly what it will be, which will present the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, to be so that this service, first of all, reduce losses, and secondly, be much more quality, because people want this precisely when they pay for this service and receive it in their own capacity. As I said, the gas sector we did for the first time Gas Exchange, you know that in the end, when we adopted the Law on this Exchange, to amend the Energy Act, was present by the European Commission from the General Directorate................................................................................... For the first time there was a personal greeting from Prime Minister Borisov in connection with the adoption of the Law and the then President of the European Commission, who congratulated Bulgaria, and the way in which this happened with enough public discussions, with a range of absolutely all interested parties, several times. We managed to do so because this market is already functioning, the gas release program, with which we made the public supplier set aside percentage quantities per year, predictable on this stock exchange, in order to be in liquidity. Challenges have come to the Commission this year, too, because ultimately this reflects. From 5 August onwards, it was with the reduction of the price of gas, with the re-negotiation, thank God, that I think very well, and everyone appreciated it, between the public supplier Bulgargaz and respectively Gazproexport, which led to a sharp decrease in the price of gas. This challenge to the KEWRC we wore it into law, but it was not so easy to come up with a monthly solution which is already a fact. We thank the Commission. There is only the announcement of the price of the heating, which must actually come out in order for the end users of this service to receive their money, precisely for the overcharged accounts. Soon we expect, in fact, Bulgargaz to his clients with the relevant contracts to return the money and they will feel that this money, which is overcharged to them on a non-market basis, will be returned and we will actually have this big component in the gas price.. will already be a fact. And we see this monthly with the KEWRC's decisions that he gives to the public supplier, this also reflects on the price of our stock exchange, because they all comply monthly with this definition. The ongoing liberalisation, which we are obliged, on the basis of Directive 944/2019, to do on the regulated market, is the retail market, which is to remove non-resident consumers. My colleagues want, of course, to introduce this bill, to be able to announce it by July 1st, to enable the KEWRC in its decision to predict it so that we would already be on the free market. And this will not be a scary step for them, because the price of the free market is much lower at the moment than the price that the KEWRC has set for objective and subjective reasons, of course, for the regulated market. This shows that these non-bit consumers at the moment when they go out on the free market will feel relieved that they will buy lower electricity. I also congratulate the KEWRC, because the price that they set last year is going to come up with a very small maybe coefficient, almost absolutely accurate. So I congratulate the team and professionalism with which they were able to determine this estimated market price. And they actually managed for a whole year to guess what the trends in the electricity market are. There are, of course, other important events that we need to organise together with the Commission, and we are working closely with them because this is not a merit of GERB or any other party, it is a merit of our Parliament and of the agreement it has in the Energy Committee. Because we look at them from a professional point of view, not from a party, because, in fact, energy is for our entire economy, for all of us. This isn't party politics. I thank my fellow Members who are in this committee for looking not at close party interests, but looking at absolutely pragmatic issues, looking at them and solving them in fullness, and that is why things are going on. There are no protesters before the Commission, as we have seen them before, because in the previous years the situation was quite party-enhancing. And for the past five years, we've seen a calmness in which absolutely beneficial decisions are made and things are moving forward. So I would like to thank them and encourage them to have a little more firmness, as Mr. Ermenkov said, and thank him for that, in relation to REMIT in terms of manipulation of the stock exchange. I would encourage them to take a look at the gas drivers who have to implement their business plans because this low price of gas, unfortunately, is used by only 5% of the Bulgarian population. Unfortunately! And even in fact, such industrial clusters, which are created around cities, cannot feel this low gas price because there is no infrastructure built. That is why we need to encourage the licencers to carry out their plans more aggressively, and I think that we and our colleagues will consider such options to enable the Commission to seek more ambitious licencers if others cannot fulfil their obligations. Because it is yet, apart from gas from Greece and Russia, the traditional supplier, we expect gas from Azerbaijan, we expect gas from the United States of America, Qatar, Algeria and wherever the price of gas is lower. And this transitional period until 2050, how do we implement it, provided that we do not have infrastructure? We have wholesale gas infrastructure, transit infrastructure and so on, but we don't have infrastructure to reach the end users. I would therefore encourage, of course, with a legislative initiative that the KEWRC should be a little stricter on these licence holders. I wanted to say this quickly, to outline the plans that we will have by the end of the year, which we really need to look again pragmatically. Thank you for your attention and I congratulate the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u78	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. - What's the line? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. Is there anyone else who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u79	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As has been pointed out, this is the fifth Annual Reporting Report that the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission presents to you. In fact, this is also the latest report of the current composition of the Commission. I will not dwell in detail on the Commission's activities because, in the very presentation of the Report and the draft decisions by the Energy Commission in the National Assembly, the most important activities and results achieved by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission were highlighted in a summary. I'll take the liberty of saying a few words. Firstly, with regard to the opinions expressed by those involved in the discussion, for which I thank them. At the same time, I will note what I consider important in the future, as Mr Ermenkov said, the obstacles that the Commission should overcome. First of all, I am grateful to the National Assembly because in the distant 2015, on 6 March, changes to the Energy Act were voted, which ruled the independence of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory. I note this fact, which was, by the way, pointed out in the discussion, because it is fundamental to the authority of the Commission. I also thank my colleagues from the Commission because, together with them, each of us stood for this independence. This allowed us to make objective and legal decisions in accordance with the regulatory framework and, together with this balanced decision, which would cover the entire energy sector and the water sector. Secondly, I thank you for having been given the opportunity, once again through legal change, to have finance to secure its activity in full and, in particular, the activity relating to the implementation of the provisions of Regulation 1227/2011, the so-called REMIT Regulation. During this period, above all in 2019, the Commission made the necessary efforts to secure the personnel directorate REMIT, to create it through a change in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to provide it materially, including to define it and territorially within the current building of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Literally next June begins the review of reports drawn up by the REMIT Directorate and related to concerns about irregularities in wholesale trade on the Bulgarian independent energy exchange. Not all signals have their cause or evidence, but the Commission will carefully and objectively examine all of them. Next, I would like to point out that during these five years, an element that is particularly important to society, and these are the Commission's price decisions, have always been taken in a spirit of sustainability, stability and conservativeism. I am extremely pleased that Mr. Valentin Nikolov mentioned that the estimated annual price of electricity that the Commission set a year ago and when it entered, so to speak, in force from 1 July 2019, proved extremely close to the real average price of electricity in the past year. This means that the Commission, in its decisions, deals in a responsible manner with the collection of all the necessary information in order to protect the public interest. When I say protection of public interest, this means that the Commission's decisions must be sufficiently balanced, nor should it be reached a situation where some of the energy companies are in financial bankruptcy, nor should it come to a situation where Bulgarian citizens are experiencing serious difficulties in paying for the electricity needed, natural gas, or water services. An important element which the Commission is carrying out continuously and has been particularly important in the past year, these are the regulations. Thanks to these acts, the Commission has established the regulatory and regulatory basis for starting the operation of the gas hub, the Agreement for the release of quantities from the public supplier to the gas hub, that is to say the gas exchange. The necessary base was created through joint decisions with the regulators of the neighbouring countries. The Bulgarian-Greek gas connection Komotini Stara Zagora was created, this was also in the last days for the Bulgarian-Serbian connection, both of which are part of the projects of common interest. With the same attention and with the same, I would say important arguments for transparency and objectivity we have spoken with a Decision and with regard to the construction of the Bulgarian transmission system and its extension, as is called the Balkan Stream. Regarding what we see as an activity to be carried out in the coming years, the Commission's challenges, which Mr Ermenkov asked in the first place, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission must contribute, as it has done so far, to liberalise the electricity market. By 1 July 2021, the liberalisation of the wholesale electricity market should be carried out as a necessary condition in order to follow a notification to the Capacity Mechanism. A mechanism that, without going into details, allows the large Bulgarian coal plants to continue to function until at least 1 July 2025 guaranteed, not knowing how further events will take place. Secondly, the path to liberalisation of the retail market must also be followed. Mr. Chairman of the Energy Commission mentioned that new amendments to the Law are coming in order to consistently remove non-bit consumers from the regulated market to the free market, so that only domestic consumers, who in a horizon no further than 2025, must also move fully to the free market. This is the first extremely important challenge. Secondly, this is the connectivity to be made with neighbouring countries both in the area of electricity transmission and in the area of natural gas transmission. If so, as on 19 November 2019 Bulgaria's connectivity with twenty other countries of the European Union was implemented in the European Union in the Market within the day, it would have to have such connectivity to the reference market for the European Commission and the European Union by the end of the year, and this is Market........................................................................... Such connectivity will ensure sustainability of the prices of the Bulgarian independent energy exchange and, as set out in the European documents, a difference between prices in neighbouring exchanges no more than two euros per megawatt hour. With regard to natural gas, it is our extremely important task by the end of the year, within the second half of 2020, to complete and put into service the interconnector Bulgaria Cube. m, and this will allow, on the one hand, an increase in the energy security of the country, and on the other hand an increase in the efficiency of the Bulgarian Gas Exchange, on the gas hub. I see that Mr. Ermenkov also asked specific questions for which I will do research as President of the Commission and in writing will be presented the results on both issues. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission during these five years has increased its authority and earned respect with its independent, objective decisions, decisions in the public interest. Be assured that this is a very good foundation so that the following Commission configurations can function in this direction. A recognition of our activity is the special letter from the European Commission to the Bulgarian regulator with gratitude for the decisions adopted in due time regarding all issues of European interest. Thank you for your attention and for the recommendations made to the Commission that we will take into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u80	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Honourable Members, we are going to vote. The draft decision has already been presented by Mr. Nikolov. I put it to the vote the way it was presented. They voted 118 MPs: 90, none, abstention 28. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR CULTURE AND DEVELOPMENT. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The bill was adopted in the first vote in February 2020. Mr. Budinov, are you going to present the Report of the Committee on Culture? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u81	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First, I'm doing a clearance procedure. On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please allow Rumen Dimitrov, Deputy Minister of Culture to be admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u82	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the proposal for admission made in this House. Vote 92 MPs: for 89, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please invite Mr. Dimitrov to the hall. Please continue, dear Mr. Budinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u83	The Law on the Protection and Development of Culture is amended and supplemented. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer by proposing the following version for § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14 the following 1. Alinei 4 and 5 are amended as follows: The Ministry of Culture shall establish and maintain a public information register of cultural organisations. The register shall be published on the website of the Ministry of Culture and the information shall be stored through an electronic database managed by an information system. (5) The terms and procedure for the award of Bulgarian cultural figures under para. 2, p. 7 are determined by a regulation of the Minister of Culture. 2. The creation of para. 6: The activities of the state cultural institutes, the state cultural institutes of national importance and the Bulgarian cultural institutes abroad are subject to monitoring, analysis and evaluation by order determined by a regulation of the Minister of Culture. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer by proposing the following version of § 2: ..................................................... A new article shall be Art. 15. (1) The entry in the register under art. 14, para. 4 as well as the voluntary deletion thereof shall be made by means of an application containing: 1. the name, seat and address of the management of the cultural organisation and a single identification code from the trade register, the register of non-profit legal entities or a BULSTAT code; 2. address for correspondence and contact person; 3. reason for entry or deletion from the register; 4. Signature of the representing cultural organization. (2) The application under para. 1 may be submitted by completing an electronic form on the website of the Ministry of Culture subject to the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Certification Services. The application shall be accompanied by the act establishing the cultural organisation where it is not promulgated or entered in a public register. (3) In the register referred to in art. 14, para. 4 shall be entered: 1. the data under para. 1, t. 1 2. form of ownership, manner of creation, management, representation and subject of activity; 3. modification of the circumstance referred to in points 1 and 2; 4. date and grounds for deletion from the register. (4) Where the application does not meet a requirement under para. 1 or 2, the Minister of Culture or an official authorised by him shall inform the applicant, giving him 10 working days to eliminate irregularities with an indication that if they are not removed, the procedure will be terminated. (5) Within 14 days of the submission of the application under para. 1 or from the removal of irregularities under para. 4, the Minister of Culture or an official authorised by him: 1. carry out an entry and issue a certificate thereof; 2. refuse entry with a motivated order; 3. delete the cultural organization from the register under art. 14, para. 4. (6) In the event of a change of circumstance under para. 3, p. 1 and 2 shall be applied for the entry of the change under para. 1 and 2 within 14 days of its occurrence. (7) Deleting the cultural organisation from the register under art. 14, para. 4 shall be carried out by order of the Minister of Culture or an official authorised by him to: 1. termination of the activity for state and municipal cultural institutes; 2. deletion of the registration of the cultural organisation from the trade register, the register of non-profit legal entities or the BULSTAT register; 3. death of the natural person of the merchant; 4. application for voluntary deletion. (8) In the event of deletion of the cultural organisation under para. The 7th entry certificate issued shall be revoked. (9) The order refusing entry into the register of cultural organisations or the deletion of the entry may be appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code. (10) No state fees shall be collected for entering and deletion in the register of cultural organisations. (11) The order of entry and deletion in the register of cultural organisations as well as keeping, keeping and accessing it shall be determined by a regulation of the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u84	Thank you. Statements, coworkers? Mrs. Milkova, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u85	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to propose an editorial amendment in § 2 as regards the created art. 15, para. 7, p. 1 after the word........................................................................................................ In this way, the provision covers not only the state and municipal cultural institutes, but also the regional ones whose reference has been omitted by the importer, but generally it is in the meaning and order of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u86	Thank you. - What's the line? Are there any other speeches? I won't. We'll move on to the vote. First, I will put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law and the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 1. Please vote. Vote 108 MPs: 108 against and abstention no. The proposals have been accepted. I am now voting on the proposal to supplement the text made by Mrs. Milkova to § 2 by Mrs. Milkova... [[Noise and lines.]] Mrs. Milkova, would you like to introduce me to your proposal for correction? [[The National Representative Emilia Staneva-Milkova sends her proposal in writing.]] I am now voting on Mrs. Milkova's proposal for an editorial amendment in § 2. They voted 107 MPs: for 107 against and abstentions there is no. The motion is accepted. I am now putting to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 2 with the amendment already adopted. They voted 104 MPs: for 104, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u87	'Concluding provisions'. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer proposing that the name of the division be amended as follows: The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer by proposing the following version of § 3: .................................................. Within one year of the entry into force of this Act, the Ministry of Culture shall establish an information system for the electronic database under art. 14, para. 4 and an online platform for submission of applications under art. 15, para. 2. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer by proposing the following version of § 4: ............................................ (1) Cultural organisations entered until the entry into force of this Act shall retain their registration number in the information register in which they are entered. (2) The procedures for the entry and termination of cultural organisations in the information register which began until the entry into force of this law shall be completed in accordance with the current order. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer by proposing the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 50, para. 4 of the Law on Mentality (prom., SG No. ...) Finally, the words which provide them to national funds established by law, supporting the creation of works of culture, under conditions and by order laid down by a regulation of the Minister of Culture, shall be used.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u88	Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I'm going to vote. I put the following texts to the vote: the Commission's proposal to change the division as a "Transitional and Final Provisions'; and the version proposed by the Commission for the texts of paragraphs 3, 4 and 5. They voted 109 MPs: 109, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u89	Dear Members of Parliament from all parliamentary groups, thank you for being so unanimous when we vote on the Law on Culture! Have a good day! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-28.u90	Thank you, Mr. Budinov. Colleagues, I will read you parliamentary control reports on Friday 29 May 2020: 1. Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov will answer a question from the MP Rumen Gechev. 2. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva will answer two questions from the MPs Kristina Sidorova and Polina Tsankova-Hristova. 3. Interior Minister Mladen Marinov will answer one question from the MP Smilyana Niva. 4. The Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will answer two questions from the MPs Nikola Dinkov and Boryana Georgieva. 5. Culture Minister Boel Banov will answer a question from the MPs Vasil Antonov and Chavdar Velinov. 6. The Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov will answer two questions from the MPs Dzhevdet Chakarov and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov, and one question from the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and Lyubomir Bonev. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister for Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva - the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to two questions from the National Representative Manol Genov; - Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov to two questions with written answer from the MPs Ercan Ebatin; and Ivan Dimov Ivanov and Desislav Taskov; - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov to two questions with written answer from the MPs Lalo Kirilov; and Krasimir Yankov and Chavdar Velinov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the MPs Vassil Antonov and Chavdar Velinov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva of a question from the MPs Nadia Klisurska-Zekova, Violeta Jeleva, Dimitar Danchev and Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to two questions from the MPs Teodora Halacheva; and Elena Pesheva; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov of a question by the National Representative Dora Yankova; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Desislava Taneva to five questions from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Chavdar Velinov and Vasil Antonov; Svetla Bachvarova and Veska Nencheva; Aleksandar Sabanov, two questions; and Kristian Vigenin; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev.. to two questions from the MPs Violeta Zhelev; and Georgi Mihailov and Violeta Jelev; one question from the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Georgi Mihailov, Ilian Timchev, Desisslav Taskov, Valentina Naydenova, Ivan Ibrishimov and Anna Slavova; and three questions with written answer from the MPs Stoyan Mirchev; Kristina Sidorova; and Violeta Jelev and Nikola Dinkov. For lack of respectable reasons, Members of the National Assembly shall postpone the responses to: - a question from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov to the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev; - two questions from the National Representative Krastina Taskova to the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mariana Nikolova; and to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Dessislava Taneva. The next regular plenary session of 9:00 p.m. on 29 May 2020 under the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
