ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[The parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria and independent MPs are not present in the Chamber.]] Dear colleagues, please invite Mrs. Lilyana Drumeva to swear as a representative of the National Assembly. Quaestors, invite Mrs Drumeva. Before reading the decision of the Central Election Commission: ? RESPONSIBILITY? No 1886-NS Sofia, 9 September 2020 on the announcement of Lilyana Drumeva Radeva as the MP in the Twenty-third Election Region of Sofia, in the 44th National Assembly With a letter in my letter. No NS-02-9 of 9 September 2020 in the CEC was received a decision of the National Assembly of 9 September 2020, with which on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria are suspended the powers of Danail Dimitrov Kirilov as a MP from the twenty-third election district of Sofia, raised by GERB party in the 44th National Assembly. The Central Election Commission should declare the next MP on the list, given the early termination of Daniel Kirilov's credentials. After a check of list A and list B on multi-mandated election districts it was found that the next candidate on the list of GERB party is Lilyana Drumeva Radeva. In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 247, para. 1, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code Central Election Commission HAS DECIDED Announcing Lilyana Drumeva Radeva, EGN..., as MP in the 44th National Assembly from the list of GERB party in the twenty-third election district of Sofia. Please, colleagues, let's get up. [[Everyone gets up.]] Mrs. Drumeva, come to the stand and repeat after me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u2	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u3	Congratulations! Take your place. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the following additional item be included in the weekly Programme for the work of the National Assembly: Draft decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for the President of the Central Election Commission, the presentation and public disclosure of documents, their hearing in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the election of the President of the Central Election Commission as the first item for today's plenary session. Please, voting mode. Vote 128 MPs: 123 against 2, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Before we go to the first point, Mr. Karadayi, last week there was a question to me about a member of the CEC I will soon provide you with the documentation and documents moved by me. There's no delay in the deadline.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u4	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u5	It's all set in time and there are answers. Moving on to point one: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEEDING PROCEDURAL RULES FOR CONDITIONS AND PROCUREMENT OF CANDIDATES FOR THE PRESENT OF THE CENTRAL ELECTRONIC COMMISSION, THE PRESENTATION AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS, THE HEARING IN THE COMMISSION OF LEGAL QUESTIONS AND THE SELECTION OF THE PRESENT OF THE CENTRAL ELECTRONIC COMMISSION. Mrs. Alexandrova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on the discussion of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for the President of the Central Election Commission, the presentation and public disclosure of documents, their hearing in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the election of the President of the Central Election Commission At its meeting held on 9 September 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed Rules of Procedure for the conduct of a public procedure under art. 93 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the election of President of the Central Election Commission. The need to carry out the public procedure arises from the termination of the powers of a member of the Central Election Commission on the basis of art. 51, para. 3 of the Election Code. In order to implement the provision of art. 51, para. 3 of the Election Code Committee on Legal Affairs on the basis of art. 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly propose to adopt rules of procedure for the election of members of the Central Election Commission. After the vote, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 13 votes for the Council, with no objection, and 7 votes abstention, proposed that the National Assembly consider and adopt the following draft decision: Project! DECISION adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for the President of the Central Election Commission, the presentation and public disclosure of documents, their hearing in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the election of the President of the Central Election Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. Art. 46, Art. 47, para. 1 and para. 2, p. 1 of the Election Code and Article 1 of the Election Code. 93 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for the President of the Central Election Commission, the presentation and public disclosure of documents, their hearing in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the election of the President of the Central Election Commission: I. Offering candidates for president of the Central Election Commission and submitting their documents. 1. Bulgarian NGOs may make proposals for candidates for President of the Central Election Commission to the MPs and parliamentary groups within 4 days of the adoption of these rules by the National Assembly. 2. Proposals for candidates for President of the Central Election Commission shall be made by Members and Parliamentary Groups in writing through the National Assembly's case-law to the Committee on Legal Affairs within 5 days of the adoption of these rules by the National Assembly. Where a Member of the National Assembly or a Parliamentary Group makes a proposal based on a proposal from a non-governmental organisation under point (a) of Article 2 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Member State concerned shall make a proposal on the basis of a proposal from a non-governmental organisation under point (c) of Article 3 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1, this is noted in it. 3. The proposals shall contain written reasons justifying the high professional and moral qualities of the applicant concerned. The following documents shall apply to the proposal: - written consent of the applicant according to the template of Annex 1 to the decision; - detailed CV; - certified by the applicant a copy of a diploma for completed higher legal education and a certificate of legal capacity in the specialty of law.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - documents certifying that the applicant meets the requirements for internship under art. 50, para. 2 of the Election Code; - written consent of the applicant under art. 27, para. 2 of the Act for Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army according to the model Annex No 2 to the Decision; - a statement on a template relating to the requirements of art. 50, para. 1, t. 1 of the Election Code, Annex 3 to the Decision; - the liability of art. 50, para. 3, p. 1 of the Election Code shall be established by the administration of the National Assembly. II. Public disclosure of documents. 1. The proposals together with the documents referred to in Section I shall be published on a specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly no later than 7 days before the hearing. The name and the reasons of the Member of the National Assembly who proposed the candidate shall be published. The publication of the proposals and documents shall be carried out in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. 2. Non-profit legal entities registered for the pursuit of public utility activities and professional organisations may submit opinions to the Committee on Legal Affairs on candidates, including questions to be referred to them no later than three days before the hearing of the candidates. The mass media may send to the Committee on Legal Affairs to the candidates to be asked. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. Opinions and questions shall be sent by post to the following address: gr. Sofia, Pl. ==References====External links==*Prince Alexander I "No 1, Committee on Legal Affairs," or by e-mail: kpv1@parliament.bg. Opinions and questions shall be published on the website of the National Assembly within three days of their receipt subject to the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act. No specific data constituting classified information shall be published and no personal data shall be published. III. Perform a preliminary check under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. 1. Candidates shall be checked for belonging to the bodies referred to in art. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The request for prior verification under art. 27, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army are made by the President of the Committee on Legal Affairs. 2. The results of the check are published on a specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. IV. Hearing of proposed candidates for President of the Central Election Commission. 1. The Committee on Legal Affairs shall hear the proposed candidates for Chairman of the Central Election Commission, who shall meet the requirements for taking up the post under art. 50 of the Election Code. 2. The hearing shall be held at an open meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs, which shall be broadcast in real time through the website of the National Assembly. 3. The Committee on Legal Affairs shall hear the importer of the proposal on the order of its submission and the applicant shall be presented in an exhibition within 2 minutes. 4. The applicant shall be given the opportunity to supplement data from his professional biography as well as to show his view of the activities of the Central Election Commission in an exhibition within 5 minutes. 5. Members of the National Assembly may ask questions to the applicant, including those received under the conditions and in accordance with Section II. 2. The time for questioning is up to 2 minutes. 6. Upon completion of the asked questions, the applicant shall be given an opportunity to answer in an exhibition within 3 minutes. 7. The refusal of a candidate to participate in the hearing shall not stop the procedure. 8. A full stenographic protocol shall be drawn up from the hearing, which shall be published on the website of the National Assembly. 9. The Committee on Legal Affairs, on the basis of art. 93, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, draw up a report from the hearing of the candidates. The report shall also be accompanied by draft decisions on the selection of each candidate for President of the Central Election Commission. V. Election of the President of the Central Election Commission. 1. The meeting of the National Assembly is broadcast in real time through the website of the National Assembly. By decision of the National Assembly, the candidates may be present at the meeting. 2. The Committee on Legal Affairs shall submit a report from the hearing held. 3. Applicants shall be submitted by an importer of the proposal for President of the Central Election Commission in an exhibition within 2 minutes. 4. Debate on the nominations under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly shall be held. 5. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system, in alphabetical order of the candidates' own names, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 6. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who received the most votes is elected. 7. Where none of the candidates receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall be held, in which the two candidates who have received the most votes for. 8. If none of the candidates receives the necessary votes in the second vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. VI. Obligation to declare incompatibility under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 and a change in the declared circumstances under art. 35, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property. 1. Upon completion of the selection procedure under Section V, the elected President of the Central Election Commission shall submit a declaration of incompatibility under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property in connection with art. 50, para. 3 of the Code of Election according to the model "Annex No 4 to the Decision'; 2. In the event of a change in the declared circumstances of the declaration referred to in point (a), 1 a declaration under Article 1 shall be lodged. 35, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property according to the template "Annex No 5 to the Decision." To the Decision adopting the Rules of Procedure, we have Annex No 1, Annex No 2, Annex No 3, Annex No 4, Annex No 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u7	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. Colleagues, you have a say in this. Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u8	Thank you, Madam President. In the manner of conduct, as we are considering procedural rules for the election of members of the Central Election Commission, no matter what position they would take in the committee itself, the President is involved in this case. To my question from last week, Madam President, first of all, I would like to thank you for the documents that have been presented, I will get to know their content, but since you claim that there is no delay in the transmission of the documents themselves, that the necessary actions have been taken and everything is implemented in time... In front of me is the signal I just received. The signal, at least as a date, is written on 5 June 2019 and in the National Assembly I see an entry number from 11 June 2019. I would like to read the request in the signal: I have a few questions for you, the first of which is: who is the authority that examines signals of compatibility and incompatibility? My second question: if this is the appointing authority, who is the appointing authority of the Central Election Commission? If, in your opinion, this is the National Assembly, then from 11 June 2019 to this day "September 10," do you think these are the actions taken in due time on the subject concerned?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u9	The weather, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u10	Thank you. I only asked you a few questions about the documents presented. I'll probably have a lot more when I meet them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u11	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. I don't know if I should answer you now or later, when we're done with this topic and you...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u12	What should we adopt procedural rules for...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u13	The letter I received duly sent that same week to the Committee for Conflict of Interest in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u14	Who's the organ?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u15	The body of appointment is the National Assembly and the Committee for Conflict of Interest is also referred to by this...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u16	Who's the appointing authority?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u17	The National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u18	Who examines the signals of compatibility and incompatibility?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u19	The committee, which is...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u20	The appointing authority!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u21	Let's not argue, Mr. Karadaye. We are going to debate. [[Relations of MP Mustafa Karadaye away from microphones.]] Colleagues, you have a say in this. I don't see any. We are now discussing the rules of procedure. I put to the vote a draft decision adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for the President of the Central Election Commission, the presentation and public disclosure of documents, their hearing in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the election of the President of the Central Election Commission. 125 MPs voted: 109, none, abstention 16. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO GENERALATE STATE MONEARY PRACTICES TO THE BULGARIAN STATE AND THE NATION. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 30 July 2020. With the Report of the Committee on Culture and Media, Mr. Rashidov will introduce us. Here you go, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u22	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! I'd like a procedure first. On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please allow Rumen Dimitrov to be admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u23	Please vote on admission in this Chamber. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Deputy Minister to the Chamber. Please, Mr. Rashidov, introduce us to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u24	At a regular meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media held on 3 September 2020, a draft decision on granting state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian State and the nation was discussed, No 002-03-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 July 2020. Vesela Shtereva, parliamentary secretary of the Ministry of Culture took part in the meeting. The draft decision was presented by Mrs. Vesela Shtereva. The draft decision shall be proposed on the basis of art. 4, para. 1 of the Law on the Award of Persons for Special Merit to the Bulgarian State and the Nation. The law regulates state monetary prizes for special merit to be: life, periodical and one-off. By Decision No 530 of 30 July 2020, the Council of Ministers proposed to the National Assembly to give life of 700 BGN. monthly state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian state and the nation for outstanding achievements and overall contribution to the culture of: Antrik Shawarsh Arabadjiyan (Astor).. illusionist, Doctor Honoris Cause of Magic Sciences of BAS; Dimitar Georgiev Korudzhiev, writer, cultural actor and public figure; Ivaylo Dimitrov Ianko Hristov Miladinov a composer, organizer, performer, conductor. The funds necessary for the payment of these lifelong state monetary awards for special merit shall be paid through the budget of the Ministry of Culture. As a result of a vote held unanimously with 14 votes for the Culture and Media Committee, the National Assembly proposes to adopt a draft decision to award state monetary awards for special favors to the Bulgarian State and the nation, No 002-03-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 July 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u25	Mr. Rashidov, read the Decision and then I will give the floor for speeches.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u26	Of course, Madam President. Project! DECISION granting state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian state and nation The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 4, para. 1 of the Law on the Award of Individuals for Special Merit to the Bulgarian State and the Nation HAS DECIDED 1. He awards state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian state and the nation lively at the amount of 700 BGN. monthly by Antonik Shawarsh Arabadjiyan (Astor), Dimitar Georgiev Korudzhiev, Ivaylo Dimitrov Balabanov and Yanko Hristov Miladinov, for their outstanding achievements and their overall contribution to culture. 2. Instructs the Minister for Culture to implement the decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Rashidov. Colleagues, you have a say in this. I don't see anyone who wants to. Let's move on to the vote. I vote on the draft decision to award state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian state and nation. They voted 111 MPs: 111, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. We continue with the next third point of the day: LAW FOR THE WITHDRAWAL OF THE ARCHIVED BY THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA 31 OF THE CONVENTION FOR THE STATUS OF PERSONS WITHOUT CIVILITY, CAME TO NEW YORK ON 28 SEPTEMBER 1954 Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs report will introduce us to Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u28	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Bill of Withdrawal of the Reserve, made by the Republic of Bulgaria under art. 31 of the Convention on the Status of Nationalityless Persons Adopted in New York on 28 September 1954, No 002-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 July 2020. At its meeting held on 22 July 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Bill for Withdrawal of the Reserve, made by the Republic of Bulgaria under art. 31 of the Convention on the Status of Nationalityless Persons Adopted in New York on 28 September 1954, No 002-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 July 2020. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Interior Ms. Rositsa Grudeva Director of the Legal and Regulatory Activities Directorate, Mrs. Biljana Stojkova General Legal Consult in the Department of Regional Affairs and EU Law and Mrs. Vladislava Radonova Expert in the Department of Legal Migration, Bulgarian Citizenship. The bill was presented by Mrs. Grudeva, who pointed out that it provides for the withdrawal of the reservation made by the Republic of Bulgaria under art. 31 of the Convention on the Status of Nationalityless Persons Adopted in New York on 28 September 1954, as it is currently obsolete. It is noted that in the current law for foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria it is regulated that a foreigner is also a stateless person, a person who is not considered as a citizen of any country in accordance with its legislation, and for persons with granted status as a stateless person under the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria are applicable both the compulsory administrative measures and the administrative criminal provisions imposed on all foreigners residing in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Mrs. Grudeva added that the Bill aims to refine and update the legislation in the field of granting the status of stateless persons in the Republic of Bulgaria and its adoption does not lead to the need to provide additional funds. After the vote, the Committee on Legal Affairs unanimously adopted by 21 votes for the reservation, without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill for the withdrawal of the reservation made by the Republic of Bulgaria under art. 31 of the Convention on the Status of Non-Citizens Adopted in New York on 28 September 1954, No 002-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 July 2020
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u29	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. I now give the floor to the Internal Security and Public Order Committee report. Here you go, Mrs. Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u30	Madam President, honourable Members! I'd like to introduce you. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for the withdrawal of the reservation made by the Republic of Bulgaria under art. 31 of the Convention on the Status of Nationalityless Persons Adopted in New York on 28 September 1954, No 002-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 July 2020. At its meeting held on 9 September 2020, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order examined and discussed a Bill for Withdrawal of the Reserve, made by the Republic of Bulgaria under art. 31 of the Convention on the Status of Nationalityless Persons Adopted in New York on 28 September 1954, No 002-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 July 2020. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Internal Affairs Rositsa Grudeva, Director of the Legal and Normal Activities Directorate and Vladislava Radonova, Head of the European Union Sector, residence and work. The bill was presented by Ms. Rositsa Grudeva, who pointed out that the reserve under art. 31 of the Convention states that the Republic of Bulgaria states that: 31 does not oblige the Republic of Bulgaria to grant persons without citizenship a more favourable status than that granted to foreigners as a whole. The reservation was adopted by the 41st National Assembly on 25 January 2012 and published in the Official Journal on 7 February 2012. In 2016, on a proposal from the Ministry of Interior was submitted the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, which was adopted and promulgated in the State Gazette, pc. 97 of 2016. It is accepted in the Law that a foreigner is also a person who is not regarded as a citizen of any country in accordance with its legislation. From the provision adopted in the Law for granting the status of a person without citizenship, the reservation made by the Republic of Bulgaria under art. 31 of the Convention on the Status of Persons Without Citizenship, adopted in New York on 28 September 1954, is not up-to-date. The withdrawal of the reservation is in order to update and refine the legislation in the field of the granting of the status of stateless persons in the Republic of Bulgaria. The adoption of the Bill does not lead to the need to provide additional funds. On the basis of the vote held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 11 votes for the reservation, 7 votes against and without abstention, proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill for the withdrawal of the reservation made by the Republic of Bulgaria under art. 31 of the Convention on the Status of Non-Citizens Adopted in New York on 28 September 1954, No 002-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 July 2020
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u31	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petrova. The foreign policy report remains. He'll introduce him to us, Mr. Toshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u32	Madam President, honourable Members! I'd like to introduce you. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for the withdrawal of the reservation, made by the Republic of Bulgaria under art. 31 of the Convention on the Status of Nationalityless Persons Adopted in New York on 28 September 1954, No 002-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 July 2020. At a meeting held on 9 September 2020, the Committee on Foreign Policy examined the Bill for Withdrawal of the Reserve, made by the Republic of Bulgaria under art. 31 of the Convention on the Status of Non-Citizens Adopted in New York on 28 September 1954. (DV, No. 60 from 2012) , ratified by law on 25 January 2012. (DV, No. 11 of 2012) The reasons for the bill were presented by Rositsa Grudeva, Director of the Legal and Normal Activities Directorate at the Ministry of Interior. The reservation under art. 31, which states that: the Bulgarian Ministry of Interior proposed by the Ministry of Interior in the ratification of the Convention by law adopted by the 41st National Assembly on 25 January 2012 and published in the Official Journal on 7 February 2012. In 2016, with the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, which was adopted and promulgated in the State Gazette, No. 97 of 2016, a procedure for granting the status of a stateless person has been clearly signed. Thus the reserve, made by the Republic of Bulgaria under art. 31 of the Convention on the Status of Non-Citizens Adopted in New York on 28 September 1954 is obsolete. The adoption of the Law on the Withdrawal of the Reserve, made by the Republic of Bulgaria under art. 31 of the Convention on the Status of people without citizenship, adopted in New York on 28 September 1954, aims to refine and update the legislation in the field of the granting of the status of stateless persons in the Republic of Bulgaria. The adoption of the bill does not lead to the need for additional funds to be provided for the introduction of European legislation. The adoption of the Bill will update the legislation in the field of granting the status of stateless persons in the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion held and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 15 votes..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 31 of the Convention on the Status of Non-Citizens Adopted in New York on 28 September 1954, No 002-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 July 2020
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Toshev. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. I can't see. I shall put to the vote the Bill for Withdrawal of the Reserve, made by the Republic of Bulgaria under art. 31 of the Convention on the Status of Non-Citizens Adopted in New York on 28 September 1954. Vote 84 MPs: 73 against 9, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Alexandrova, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u34	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm doing procedure on the grounds of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure and Procedure of the National Assembly shall be subject to a second vote in today's sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u35	Please vote on Mrs. Alexandrova's procedure. Vote 94 MPs: 86 against 6, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u36	Thank you, Madam President. THE LAW OF THE withdrawing the reservation made by the Republic of Bulgaria under art. 31 of the Convention on the Status of Non-Citizens Adopted in New York on 28 September 1954. A single member. The Republic of Bulgaria withdraws the reservation made under art. 31 of the Convention on the Status of Non-Citizens Adopted in New York on 28 September 1954. (DV, No. 60 from 2012) , ratified by law on 25 January 2012. (DV, No. 11 of 2012)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u37	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote for a second reading the name of the Law, the only article and the Final provision. Colleagues, because there is an inexcusability, it is not clear whether Mrs. Alexandrova has read a single paragraph, so I will read it, in fact.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u38	I read it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u39	You may have read it, Mrs. Alexandrova, but just to be precise. They voted 99 MPs: 88, against 8, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. The next item is: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE APPLICATION OF REGULATION (EU) 2019/125 OF 16 JANUARY 2019 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL ON TRADE WITH CERTAIN GOODS WHICH HAVE BEEN MIGHT HAVE BEEN USED FOR THE APPLICATION OF DEATH-CRAFT, TURNED OR OTHER FORMS OF GREEN, INDEPENDENT OR LOWER OR RECOGNIZED, No 002-01-23. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 23 June 2020, adopted in the first vote on 9 July 2020. The report will introduce us to Mrs. Saveklieva. Here you are, Mrs. Saveklieva. Mr. Kanev, unfortunately, is not in the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u40	Dear Madam President, first I would like to do a procedure on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to be admitted to the Chamber by the Ministry of Economy Stamen Yanev
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u41	Please vote on the procedure so made.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u42	Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u43	"Report on a Bill implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/125 of 16 January 2019 of the European Parliament and of the Council on trade in certain goods which could be used to apply the death penalty, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, No 002-01-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 June 2020, adopted at the first vote on 9 July 2020. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, repair, maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance, repair, maintenance, repair, maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance, repair, maintenance, maintenance, repair, maintenance, maintenance, repair, maintenance, maintenance, repair, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, repair, maintenance, maintenance, repair, maintenance, maintenance, repair, maintenance, maintenance, repair, repair, maintenance, maintenance, repair, maintenance, maintenance, repair, maintenance, repair, maintenance, maintenance, repair, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, repair, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, repair, maintenance, maintenance, repair, repair, repair, maintenance, maintenance, The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of the Law be amended as follows: This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, repair, maintenance, repair, maintenance, maintenance, repair, repair, maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance, repair, maintenance, repair, maintenance, maintenance, repair, maintenance, maintenance, repair, maintenance, maintenance, repair, maintenance, maintenance, repair, maintenance, repair, maintenance, repair, maintenance, repair, maintenance, maintenance, repair, repair, maintenance, maintenance, repair, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, repair, maintenance, repair, maintenance, maintenance, repair, maintenance, maintenance, repair, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, repair, maintenance, repair, maintenance, maintenance, repair, repair, repair, maintenance, repair, maintenance, "Chapter 1" "General provisions". The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter One. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 1: Art. 1. This law governs trade with third countries in goods which could be used for the execution of the death penalty or for torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, as well as the provision of brokering services, technical assistance, training and advertising relating to such goods, as required by Regulation (EU) 2019/125 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 January 2019 on trade in certain goods which could be used for the execution of the death penalty, torture or other forms of cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment (OB, L 30/1 of 31 January 2019) , hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) 2019/125'. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 2: Art. 2. (1) Authorisations for the export, import and transit of the goods referred to in Annex II to Regulation (EU) 2019/125 and for the provision of technical assistance relating to those goods, as well as authorisations for the export, transit and supply of brokering services to the goods referred to in Annexes III and IV to Regulation (EU) 2019/125 and for the provision of technical assistance relating to those goods shall be issued by the Minister of Economy or by officials authorised by him. (2) Authorisations for the export, import and transit of the goods referred to in Annex II of Regulation (EU) 2019/125 and for the provision of technical assistance relating to those goods shall be issued only in the cases referred to in art. Art. 3, par. 2, art. Art. 4 (2) Article 5 (2) and Article 5 (2) 8 of Regulation (EU) 2019/125.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u44	Statements, coworkers? I won't. I will put the following texts to the vote: the Commission proposal for the name of the Law; the text of the importer supported by the Commission for the name of Chapter One; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 1; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 2. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u45	"Chapter 2 " Export, import, transit, brokerage and technical assistance permits. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of Chapter 2 be amended as follows: Export, import, transit, provision of brokerage services and technical assistance. "Department I.......................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section I. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 3: Art. 3. (1) The export authorisation may be an individual export authorisation, a general export authorisation or a Union general export authorisation as defined in Regulation (EU) 2019/125. (2) For certain types of exports as set out in Annex V to Regulation (EU) 2019/125, a general Union export authorisation shall apply under art. 20, paragraph 1 of the Regulation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u46	Thank you. Are there any speeches, colleagues? I will put the following texts to the vote: the Commission's proposal for the name of Chapter Two; the text of the importer on the name of Section I; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 3. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u47	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 4. Art. 4. (1) Persons applying for individual or general export authorisation shall submit the following documents to the Minister of Economy: 1. completed application on a sample; 2. a completed template form in accordance with Annex VII of Regulation (EU) 2019/125 in three copies; 3. a copy of a document certifying the technical characteristics, functional purpose, quality and quantitative composition of the goods; 4. notarized copies of an import authorisation and/or document by the end-user certifying the end-use of the goods according to art. 3 paragraph 2 of Regulation (EU) 2019/125, certified by a competent authority of the end-user country; 5. a copy of a document confirming the foreign trade relations between the participants in the transaction (contract or contract) and of a document certifying the participation in the transaction of other persons other than the foreign importer and/or end-user; the document must include the parties to the transaction, description and quantity of the goods, delivery conditions, value and execution time; 6. a document for a paid state fee. (2) When applying for a general export authorisation, the applicant shall submit in addition to the documents under para. 1 and documents certifying that for the previous year it has carried out and/or will carry out in the following year on the basis of contractual relations not less than 10 exports of the goods described in the application for each of the recipients mentioned therein. The authorisation issued shall have a period of validity of up to two years, which may be extended once for a period of up to one year. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 5, as in t. 2 and 4 after the word "Registration', the words "Registrations' shall be added. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 6: Art. 6. (1) Persons applying for a transit authorisation (exporter or importer or end-user or authorised by one of them) shall submit to the Minister of Economy the following documents: 1. completed application on a sample; 2. a completed template form in accordance with Annex VII of Regulation (EU) 2019/125 in three copies; 3. a copy of a document certifying the technical characteristics, functional purpose, quality and quantitative composition of the goods; 4. a copy of an end-user certificate issued by a competent authority of the country of the end-user and/or a document by the end-user certifying the end-use of the goods according to art. 5 (2) of Regulation (EU) 2019/125, certified by a competent authority of the end-user country; 5. a certified copy of an export authorisation or a copy of a document certifying its right to carry out the activity concerned; 6. a copy of a document confirming the foreign trade relations between the participants in the transaction (contract, proform invoice, invoice) and of a document certifying the participation in the transaction of other persons other than the foreign exporter; the document must include the parties to the transaction, description and quantity of the goods, terms of delivery, value and time of execution; 7. the demand of the person concerned in the course of the assignment; 8. a document for a paid state fee. (2) The authorisation shall be valid under the conditions and until the expiry of the period specified therein, but for no more than 30 days from the date of introduction of the goods into the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u48	Are there any speeches? I shall put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 4; the text of the importer for art. 5 with the proposal to supplement made by the Commission; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 6. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u49	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 7. Art. 7. (1) Persons applying for individual or general authorisation for the provision of brokering services shall submit the following documents to the Minister of Economy: 1. completed application on a sample; 2. a completed template form in accordance with Annex VIII of Regulation (EU) 2019/125 in three copies; 3. a copy of a document certifying the technical characteristics, functional purpose, quality and quantitative composition of the goods; 4. a document proving the end-use certified by a competent authority of the country of the end-user; 5. a copy of a document confirming the foreign trade relations between the participants in the transaction (contract, proform invoice, invoice) and of a document certifying the participation in the transaction of other persons other than the foreign exporter; the document must include the parties to the transaction, description and quantity of the goods, terms of delivery, value and time of execution; 6. a document for a paid state fee. (2) When applying for a general authorisation for the provision of brokering services, the applicant shall submit in addition to the documents under para. 1 and documents certifying that for the previous year it has carried out and/or will carry out in the following year on the basis of contractual relations not less than 10 brokering services with the goods described in the application for each of the recipients specified therein. The authorisation issued shall have a period of validity of up to two years, which may be extended once for a period of up to one year. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 8. Art. 8. (1) The persons applying for authorisation to provide technical assistance shall submit the following documents to the Minister of Economy: 1. completed application on a sample; 2. completed form in a template according to Annex IX of Regulation (EU) 2019/125 in three copies; 3. a copy of a document confirming the foreign trade relations between the participants in the transaction and the need to provide technical assistance; 4. a document for a paid state fee. (2) In the cases referred to in art. Article 3 (2) and Article 3 (2) 4 (2) of Regulation (EU) 2019/125, the applicant shall submit in addition to the documents referred to in para. 1 and a copy of a document certifying that in the country where the technical assistance will be provided, the goods will be or have been used exclusively for the purpose of their exhibition in a museum in view of their historical value. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 9. Art. 9. The documents in a foreign language are presented accompanied by certified translation into Bulgarian, which contains the three names of the person who made the translation, position and employment and the foreign language from which the translation was made. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 10: Art. 10. (1) The permissions under art. 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 shall be issued within 15 days of receipt of documents in the Ministry of Economy. (2) Within 5 days of issuing the authorisation, the authority referred to in art. 2 informs the applicant in writing. (3) In the event of finding irregularities in the documents submitted within 5 days of the date of receipt of the documents, the authority referred to in art. 2 informs the applicant in writing to remove it, giving instructions for its removal. (4) Within 15 days of the date of receipt of the notification, the applicant shall be obliged to remedy the irregularity. The term under para. 1 shall cease to run from the date of notification to the applicant and shall resume from the date of entry into force of the documents with which the irregularity has been removed. (5) The individual authorisations granted under para. 1 shall have a period of validity of up to 6 months from their issue, which may be extended once for a period of up to 6 months. (6) If an authorised transaction is not executed within the period of the authorisation granted, no later than 15 days before the expiry of the period, the applicant may request its extension with a reasoned application containing information on the outstanding part of the transaction and a declaration that no change has occurred in the conditions under which the authorisation was granted. (7) The authorisation shall be issued in three copies. The first copy shall be submitted to the applicant and the other two shall be kept in the Ministry of Economy. (8) The authorisation may only be used by the person to whom it has been granted. (9) The authority referred to in art. 2 has the right to require additional information relating to the transaction, as well as opinions from experts on matters for which specialized knowledge is required.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u50	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I will put to the vote the following texts: the version which the Commission proposes for the texts of art. Seven, eight, nine and ten. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The proposed texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u51	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 11, as in para. 1 the words "send of amended' shall be replaced by the words "supplied'. Section II "Request to issue an authorisation." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 12: Art. 12. (1) The authority referred to in art. 2 with a reasoned order refusing to grant permission where: 1. no document under art. 1 has been submitted. 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 or any of the documents submitted does not meet the requirements; 2. the activity is contrary to the criteria for granting an authorisation referred to in Regulation (EU) 2019/125; 3. the examination of the documents revealed a discrepancy between the requested and the actual circumstances. (2) Within three working days of the issue of the order under para. 1 The authority referred to in art. 2 sends it to the applicant. (3) The order under para. 1 may be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u52	Are there any speeches? I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 11 with the proposal for replacement made by the Commission; the text of the importer on the name of Section II; and the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 12. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The proposed texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u53	"Section III - Withdrawal, suspension and amendment of an authorisation granted.' The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of Section III be amended as follows: The Commission proposes to create a new art. 13: Art. 13. (1) The authority referred to in art. 2 with a reasoned order shall suspend the validity of an authorisation granted for a period of up to 60 days in the case of: 1. change of the regulatory requirements related to the authorisation; 2. changes in the circumstances under which the authorisation was granted. (2) Within three working days of issuing the order under para. 1 The authority referred to in art. 2 sends it to the applicant. (3) Upon receipt of the order, the person to whom the authorisation has been granted shall be obliged to suspend its activities and return the original of the authorisation immediately to the Ministry of Economy. (4) An authorisation which has been suspended may be restored before the term under para. 1 upon removal of the grounds for suspension. (5) The order under para. 1 may be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following editorial art. Art. 13, which becomes Art. 14: Art. 14. (1) The authority referred to in art. 2 by a reasoned order withdraws an authorisation where: 1. the activity to be carried out does not comply with the conditions laid down in the authorisation granted; 2. the applicant has submitted non-true documents or false data which have served as grounds for granting the authorisation; 3. the activities of the authorisation concern the essential interests of the Republic of Bulgaria in the field of security or there are considerations for the protection of public policy. (2) Within three working days of issuing the order under para. 1 The authority referred to in art. 2 sends it to the applicant. (3) Upon receipt of the order, the person to whom the authorisation has been granted shall be obliged to suspend its activities and return the original of the authorisation immediately to the Ministry of Economy. (4) In the event of withdrawal under para. 1 person shall not be entitled to apply for a new authorisation for a period of three months from the date of withdrawal. (5) The order under para. 1 may be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following editorial art. 14, which becomes art. 15: Art. 15. (1) An authorisation issued may be amended by the authority referred to in art. 2 upon receipt of a written application from the applicant. (2) The application for amendment shall be submitted within 7 days of a change to the circumstances in which the authorisation was granted. (3) To the application under para. 1 Documents certifying changes in circumstances shall apply. (4) The issue of an amended authorisation shall be carried out in accordance with art. 10. (5) The authority referred to in art. 2 with a reasoned order refuse to grant an amended authorisation where the conditions under art. 12, para. 1 or the documents under para. 3 do not certify the occurrence of changes in circumstances. (6) Within three working days of issuing the order under para. 5 organs under art. 2 sends it to the applicant. (7) The order under para. 5 may be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u54	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put the following texts to the vote: the Commission proposal to change the name of Section III; the Commission proposal to create a new § 13 with a text on the Commission Report; and the version proposed by the Commission for the texts of art. Art. 13 and art. 14 which become respectively Art. Article 14 15. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The proposed texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u55	? Chapter 3?? Entrepreneurs' duties?? The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Three. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 15 which becomes Art. 16: Art. 16. Persons carrying out activities under Regulation (EU) 2019/125 shall be required to: 1. return to the Ministry of Economy the original of the authorisation for export, import, transit, provision of brokering services and technical assistance immediately after receipt of the order for withdrawal or suspension of the authorisation and within 15 days after the execution of the transaction or after the expiry of its validity; 2. after export to the Ministry of Economy shall provide a certificate of delivery or equivalent issued by a competent authority of the State of the final consumer within three months of the delivery of the goods to the State of the final consumer; 3. where, according to the national law of the State of the end-user, no document under point (c) is issued. 2 to submit to the Ministry of Economy a written declaration by the end-user certifying the supply of goods to the State of the end-user; 4. keep for a period of not less than 5 years, commercial and transport documents and information relating to the performance of the activity concerned containing data on: (a) the type of goods and their respective identification; (b) the quantity of the goods; (c) the name and address of the exporter and of the consignee; (d) the end-user and the end-use of the goods; 5. to assist in carrying out checks by the control bodies under art. 17, para. 1 and provide them within the prescribed time limits with the information and documents required by this law; 6. inform the authority referred to in Article in writing. 2 for each change in the circumstances under which the authorisation was granted within 7 days of its entry into force.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u56	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Three, as well as the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 15 which becomes Art. 16. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The proposed texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u57	"Chapter 4" Control of the implementation of the law. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Four. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 16 which becomes Art. 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u58	Are there any speeches? I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 4 and the text of the importer for art. 16 which becomes Art. 17. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u59	"Chapter Five" - Administrative Penal Provisions. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Five. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 17, which becomes art. 18: Art. 18. Export, import, transit and provide brokering services with the goods referred to in Annex II, Annex III and Annex IV of Regulation (EU) 2019/125 or provide technical assistance related to such goods without the relevant authorisation or which violate the conditions and requirements for the use of a Union general export authorisation as described in Annex V to Regulation (EU) 2019/125 shall be subject to: 1. fine in the amount of 500 to 1000 lv. ? of the natural persons as well as of the officials of the companies, if this does not constitute a criminal offence; 2. a penalty of 1000 to 5000 BGN. ? of the legal persons and sole traders; 3. fine in the amount of 2000 to 5000 lv. in respect of a repeated infringement of natural persons as well as of officials of commercial companies; 4. a penalty of 5000 to 10 000 BGN. for a re-infraction of the legal persons and sole traders. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 18, which becomes Art. 19: Art. 19. To persons who carry out activities in breach of the scope and conditions of the authorisation granted or who do not assist in carrying out checks by the control bodies under art. 17, para. 1, or do not provide within the specified time limits the information and documents required by this law must: 1. fine in the amount of 500 to 1000 lv. ? of the natural persons as well as of the officials of the companies, if this does not constitute a criminal offence; 2. a penalty of 1000 to 5000 BGN. ? of the legal persons and sole traders; 3. fine in the amount of 2000 to 5000 lv. in respect of a repeated infringement of natural persons as well as of officials of commercial companies; 4. a penalty of 5000 to 10 000 BGN. for a re-infraction of the legal persons and sole traders. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 19 which becomes Art. 20, as in the text before t. 1 words.............................................................................. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. 16, p. One, two, three, four and six. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 20, which becomes art. 21, as in para. 1 and 2 words................................................................................................ This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u60	Are there any speeches? I shall put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Five; the version proposed by the Commission for art. 17, which becomes art. Article 18; 18, which becomes Art. 19; and the texts of the importer for art. 19 which becomes Art. Art. 20, art. 20, which becomes art. 21, with the proposed substitutions in the texts of art. Art. 19 and art. 20 proposed by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The proposed texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u61	"Additional provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u62	Are there any speeches? I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of the subdivision and the text of the importer for § 1 and § 2. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The proposed texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u63	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ The export, import, transit, supply of brokering services and the sale or marketing of goods which may be used for the purpose of applying the death penalty, torture or other forms of cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, as well as for providing technical assistance relating to such goods, shall remain valid until the expiry of the period for which they were issued.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u64	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of the subdivision, as well as the text of the importer for § 3 and the version proposed by the importer for the wording of § 4. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The proposed texts have been adopted. Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. Let's continue with: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR BULGARIAN PERSONAL DOCUMENTS. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Here you are, dear Mr. Nunev, to present the Internal Security and Public Order Committee Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I am making a procedural proposal on the grounds of art. 42, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to be admitted to the Chamber to the admission of Milko Berner to the Deputy Minister of the Interior, and Rositsa Grudeva to the Director of the Legal and Normal Activities Directorate at the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u66	I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted. Please present the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u67	♪ I can't believe on Draft Law amending and supplementing the Bulgarian Personal Documents Act No 002-01-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 July 2020. At its meeting held on 29 July 2020, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Bulgarian Personal Documents Act, No 002-01-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 July 2020. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Internal Affairs: Hristo Terziyski On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mrs. Rositsa Grudeva. In her exhibition Mrs. Grudeva noted that the need to supplement the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents stems from recommendations made to the Ministry of Interior to stop the practice of re-validating declared invalid Bulgarian personal documents, which had previously been declared lost or stolen. It is also necessary to refine the grounds for declaring invalid ID cards and passports of the Bulgarian citizens and to supplement them with reasons which have not yet been provided for. The draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents aims to end the practice once declared invalid Bulgarian personal documents, which is reflected in the information system maintained by the Ministry of Interior to be restored as valid after the removal of the reason why they were declared invalid and thus to achieve compliance with the documents available in the information system of the Ministry of Interior, Interpol and the Schengen Information System. Another objective is to provide for the possibility of a declaration of invalid identity documents of an identity card, passport and replacement document where: 1. The previous document of the same kind has not been returned by the person and the new identity document is received through an authorised person (when applying for the issue of a Bulgarian personal document in diplomatic or consular services outside the country) ; 2. Information on used forged personal documents (fake identity) has been received by official means; 3. At the explicit request of the person, where it is suspected that the data contained in the document concerned has been abused (foreign identity). The adoption of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents does not lead to the need to provide additional funds. The adoption of the Bill will make the necessary regulatory changes related to ensuring the possibility of declaring the identity documents invalid for reasons which have not been foreseen so far, which will result in the correct reporting of data in the information systems, as well as the receipt of more accurate information when making a reference to a specific identity document. The possibility will also be regulated at the request of citizens to declare the identity documents invalid when they have doubts about the misuse of personal data and when the previous document has not been returned by the person and the new document is received by an authorised person. The project provides for the introduction of European legislation and therefore tables of compliance with European law are drawn up. On the basis of the vote held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 17 votes for.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u68	Thank you, dear Mr. Nunev. Following is a Report of the Committee on Foreign Policy. Mr. Bogdanov, you have the floor to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u69	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Foreign Policy on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Bulgarian Personal Documents Act No 002-01-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 July 2020. At a meeting held on 9 September 2020, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Bulgarian Personal Documents Act submitted by the Council of Ministers. The reasons for the bill were presented by Rositsa Grudeva, Director of the Legal and Normal Activities Directorate at the Ministry of Interior. The bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents aims to stop the practice of re-validating declared invalid Bulgarian personal documents, which were previously declared lost or stolen. The grounds for declaring invalid ID cards and passports of Bulgarian citizens are reviewed. With the adoption of the Bill, the necessary regulatory changes will be made to ensure the possibility of declaring that identity documents are invalid for reasons which have not been foreseen so far. This will lead to proper reporting of data in the information systems, as well as obtaining more accurate information when making reference to a specific identity document. The possibility will also be regulated at the request of citizens to declare the identity documents invalid when they have doubts about the misuse of personal data and when the previous document has not been returned by the person and the new document is received by an authorised person. A legal possibility will be created for beneficiaries of international protection located abroad whose documents have been stolen or expired to be able to return to Bulgaria legally in order to fulfil their obligation to apply for new documents to be issued. The adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents does not imply the provision of additional funds, as well as the introduction of European legislation. On the basis of the discussion held and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 14 votes for the Council of Ministers, No 002 01 28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 July 2020, proposed to the National Assembly an amendment and supplement to the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u70	Thank you, dear Mr. Bogdanov. Statements, coworkers? Mr. Tzipov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The submitted bill is important to the extent that it has another practical focus. There are not few cases where a valid document which is lost is reported stolen, and that means that the police authorities form the relevant file in a small percentage of cases, including pre-trial criminal proceedings, and that raises the percentage of files which cannot be completed in one or another form when the document is subsequently discovered and returned to the person concerned. I believe that, in addition to stopping such bad practices, we will also give an opportunity in the information system......................................... to reflect correctly all cases of destroyed, lost or stolen documents and, on the other hand, we will succeed and make sure that a person to whom a new identity document is issued will not harass the authorities of the units in the Bulgarian identity documents to spend money on issuing such a new document. Dear Members of Parliament, for this reason, my call is to support unanimously, as well as in the leading Commission, this bill has been supported because it will allow, on the one hand, that there is a clear accountability of each document issued, on the other hand, that, when there is a relevant file or pre-trial criminal proceedings, no such cases occur, in which one person at one time has two documents of identity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u72	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, No 002 01 28, submitted by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u73	They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. We've run out of points today. Colleagues, as we have more time, I am making the following procedural proposal: First vote on the Bill on Supplement to the Budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020, with an importer, the Council of Ministers and the eleventh item for tomorrow, first vote on the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Budget of the State Social Security for 2020, an importer, the Council of Ministers provided for tomorrow's plenary meeting, respectively, as the first and second item, to be considered in today's meeting, 10 September 2020, and to become the sixth and seventh for it respectively. Please, voting mode. Vote 94 MPs: for 93, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point: FIRST VOICE OF THE LECOPROECTION OF THE CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE BUDGET OF NATIONAL HEALTH AND HEALTH CASE FOR 2020 I give the floor to Mrs. Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u74	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law supplementing the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020, No 002-01-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 September 2020. At a meeting held on 9 September 2020, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. The bill was presented by Mrs. Zheny Nacheva "Deputy Minister of Health and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund." In the contractual relationship between the National Health Insurance Fund and hospital care contractors, as shown by the data in the Information System of the National Health Insurance Fund, there are cases which appear to be unpaid activities outside the monthly values for past periods. Regardless of the reasons why it has come to this factual situation, it is necessary to create a legal opportunity for these relations to be clarified and finalised at present. With the Draft Supplement to the Law on the Budget of the Cashier, it is necessary to use the same funds for 2020 to be used for payments to hospital aid contractors for the past period, which the NHIF/RHIF have established in accordance with that order. According to data in the Information System of the National Health Insurance Fund and summarised nationally: - the value of the unpaid activity above the established values for 2015 amounts to 50 million. 253 thousand. BGN, with the value of the outstanding funds for principals in cases brought against the National Health Insurance Fund amounting to 22 million. 443 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • - the value of the unpaid activity above the established values for 2016 amounts to 28 million. 627 thousand. BGN, with the value of the outstanding funds for principals in cases brought against the National Health Insurance Fund amounted to 15 million. 476 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • For the implementation of the proposed by the Bill, no additional funds are needed, as the decision of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund will be made within the framework of the funds for these activities under the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for health insurance payments for hospital medical care for 2020. Following the discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, on the first vote, a bill supplementing the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020, No 002-01-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 September 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u75	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Mr. Hamid for procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, due to the particular importance of this point, please put to the vote the debates and votes on it to be transmitted directly on BNT-2 and the Bulgarian National Radio. However, given that I see that there is no quorum in this House before that vote you carry out a roll call check. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-10.u77	Thank you, dear Mr. Hamid. Please, fellow Members, invite the Members of the National Assembly to the Chamber. I'll start with the name check: Adlen Shukri Shevked is absent. Albena Vladimirova Naydenova- absent Alexander Dimitrov Pawnov- absent Alexander Ivanov Matsurev- here Alexander Koychev Ivanov- here Aleksandar Mairov Siddi-here Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov- here Alexander Petrov Alexandrov - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov- here Alexander Tihomirov Simov- absent Altimir Emilov Adamov- here Anastas Marinov Popdimitrov- absent Angel Iliev Isaev- absent Andrian Ivanov Raykov-- here. Anna Vasileva Alexandrova- here Anna Nikolaeva Slavova- absent Anton Konstantinov Kutev- absent Asya Atanasova Peeva- here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov- here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov- absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov is absent. Bogdan Emilov Botsev- absent Boris Vangelov Borisov- here Boris Petkov Kirchev- here Boris Yankov Yachev- here Borislav Ivanov Borisov- here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva- missing Bürhan Ilyazov Abase - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov- here Valentin Georgiev Lambev- absent Valentin Ivanov Radev- here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov- here Valentin Mirchov Milushev- here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova- absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov- absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov- absent Vasil Milanov Antonov- absent Vasil Tsvetkov- here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov- absent Velislava Ivanova Krasteva- absent Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova- here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva- absent Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - absent Veska Marinova Nencheva- absent Violeta Ruseva Jeleva - absent Vladimir Slavchev Valev- here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev- here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov- here Galya Eneva Zaharieva- here Galya Stoyanova Zhelyazkova - here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov- absent Georgi Georgiev Stoilov- absent Georgi Dimitrov Andreev- absent Georgi Evdokiev Markov- absent Georgi Zaprev Dinev- here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov- absent Georgi Kolev Kolev- here Georgi Nikolov Vergiev- absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski- absent Georgi Tenev Stankov- here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski- absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov- absent Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova- here Daniel Petkov Yordanov- absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- absent Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva- here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova- here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova- here Danka Evstatieva Zidarova-Lurtova- here Dean Stoyanov Stanchev- here Delyan Slavchev Peevski- absent Desislaw Petrov Taskov- absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov- absent Desislava Angelova Todorova- here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva- here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov is absent. Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov is absent Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov- here Dimitar Boychev Petrov- here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev- here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - absent Dimitar Ivanov Avramov- absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev- absent Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov- here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov- here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov- absent Dobrin Nenov Danev- absent Donka Dimova Simeonova- absent Dora Ilieva Yankova- absent Dora Stoyanova Hristova- absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- absent Evgeni Genchev Budinov- here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva- here Evgenia Danielova Angelova- here Evdokia Slavchova Asenova- absent Elena Vladimirova Angelina - absent Elena Stefanova Pesheva - absent Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov- absent Emil Marinov Hristov- here Emil Seraphimov Tonchev- here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova- here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin is absent. Errol Osman Mehmet-- absent. Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev- absent Brought to you by Vassilev Iankov- here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov- absent Ivan Dimov Ivanov- absent Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev- absent Ivan Nikolov Mihovski- here Ivan Stefanov Valkov- here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov- absent Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva- here Ivo Angelov Hristov- absent Iglika Ivanova-Subeva- here Ilian Angelov Timchev- absent Imren Ismetova Mehmedova- absent Irena Metodieva Dimova- here Irena Todorova Anastasova- absent Honest Vasilev Veselinov- here Ihsan Halil Hakke is absent Yordan Apostolov-Apostolov is absent Yordan Iliev Yordanov- here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- absent Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev- here Kalin Lubenov Velev- here Kalin Nikolov Popovski- here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva- here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - absent Konstantin Veselinov Popov- here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev- here Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov- here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov- here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev- here Krasimir Mitkov Subev- here Krasimir Hristov Jankov- absent Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Cristina Maximova Sidorova- absent Krum Kostadinov Zarkov- absent Krastina Nikolova Taskova- here Lalo Georgiev Kirilov- absent Lilyana Drumeva Radeva- here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev- absent Manoil Minchev Manev- here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova- absent Maria Yordanova Ilieva- absent Maria Yordanova Tsvetkova- here Maria Shtereva Belova- here Martin Stefanov Obreshkov- absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova- here Milen Vassilev Mihov- here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova- here Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov- absent Mitko Kostadinov Polychronov- here Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov- absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov- here Mustafa Sally Karadaye- absent Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova - absent Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer is absent Nikola Iliev Dinkov- absent Nikolay Asenov Tishev- absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov- absent Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov- absent Nikolay Dimitrov Penev- absent Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov- absent Nikolay Krastev Boshkov- absent Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov- here Nikolina Panayotova Angelkova- here Nona Krasteva Yotova- missing Pavel Alexeyev Hristov- here Pavel Dimitrov Shopov- absent Petar Georgiev Kanev- absent Peter Hristov Petrov- here Plamen Dulchev Nunev- here Plamen Ivanov Manushev- here Plamen Tachev Petrov- here Plamen Trifonov Hristov- absent Polina Alexandrova Shishkova- absent Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova - absent Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev- absent Radoslava Plamen Chekanska- here Radostin Radoslavov Tanev- here Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva- here Ramadan Bajram Atali is absent Rosen Zhivkov Ivanov- here Rosen Malinov Malinov - absent Rumen Vassilev Gechev- absent Rumen Nikolov Georgiev- absent Rumen Petrov Genov- here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev- here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova- missing Svetlana Angelova Naydenova- here Sevim Ismail Ali is absent Sergey Manushov Kichikov- absent Simeon Georgiev Naydenov- absent Simeon Hristov Simeonov- absent Slavi Dichev Netzov- here Slavcho Stoev Atanasov- here Smilyana Nikolova Niva-Krsteva- missing Spas Georgiev Gurnevski- here Save Yanev Panchev- here Stanislav Ivanov Popov- here Stanislav Ivanov Stoyanov- here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov- here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov- absent Stanislava Krasimirova Stoyanova- here Stefan Apostolov - here Stefan Ivanov Burgeev - absent Stay Mitev Stoynov- here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev- absent Stoyan Radkov Bojinov- here Tanner Mehmed Ali is missing. Tanya Todorova Petrova- here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov- absent Teodora Atanasova Halacheva- absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva- here Todor Baychev - absent Toma Lubomirov Bikov- here Thomas Nikolov Tomov- absent Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Hayri Recepov Sadakov- absent Halil Rexepov Letifov is absent Hamid Barry Hamid-- absent. Hassan Ahmed Ademov - absent Hristian Radev Mitev- here Hristo Georgiev Gajev-here Hristo Tanchev Prodanov- absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva- here Tsvetan Borisov Topchiev- absent Chavdar Yordanov Velinov- absent Julian Krastev Angelov- here Yulian Mihailov Papasimov- here Yavor Bozhilov Notev- here Yavor Rumenov Bojankov- absent Colleagues, we don't have a quorum. We wanted to do a little more work today because the two budgets were important. Tomorrow is a regular meeting at 9:00. Parliamentary control announcements on 11 September 2020, Friday: 1. The Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov will answer 5 questions from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Nona Yotova; Anna Slavova; Valentina Naydenova and Filip Popov, Georgi Yordanov, Ilian Timchev, Desislav Taskov and Georgi Mihailov. 2. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer two questions from the MPs Nikolay Tsonkov and Valentina Naydenova. 3. The Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov will answer one question from the MPs Nikola Dinkov and Violeta Zhelev and two questions from the MPs Krasimir Yankov and Lyubomir Bonev, Kristina Sidorova and Ivan Valentinov. The Minister of Economy Lachezar Borisov will answer two questions from the MPs Rumen Gechev; and Georgi Gokov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. A seven-day delay of the HNS requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva, one question from the National Representative Christian Vigenin; - Minister of Finance Kiril Ananiev to a question by the National Representative Valentina Naydenova; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Desislava Taneva for one question and one question from the National Representative Christian Vigenin; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova of a question by the MPs Tasco Ermenkov and Vasil Antonov; - Minister of Economy Lachezar Borisov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Danka Zidarova-Lurtova. For lack of respectable reasons, the answers to a question from the National Representative Dimitar Georgiev to the Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov are postponed to a question from the National Representative Krastina Taskova to the Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov. Due to the use of sick leave, the Minister for Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Due to an urgent commitment with international participation in the parliamentary control meeting, Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev will not participate. Tomorrow's regular meeting Friday, June 12th, 9:00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
