ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. I'd like to introduce you to a message. The National Statistical Institute received information on inflation and consumer price indices for September 2020. The first point for today is: LAW FOR THE RATEFICING OF THE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT SOLUTION OF 24 SEPTEMBER 1960 Importer of the Council of Ministers, on 29 September 2020 With the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, Mrs. Angelova will introduce us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u2	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the International Development Association's Constitutional Treaty of 24 September 1960, No 002-02-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 September 2020. At a meeting held on 8 October 2020, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Marinella Petrova, Deputy Minister of Finance. The International Development Association is an organization of the World Bank Group established in 1960 to complement the activities of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The Association supports the poorest countries by providing loans under subsidiary conditions, grants and technical assistance, and is also committed to debt relief under various initiatives. The International Development Association is the only one of the five organizations from the World Bank Group in which the Republic of Bulgaria is currently not a member. The membership of the International Development Association comes from 173 member states, all members of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. By Decision No 687 of 28 September 2020, the government approved the Founding Treaty of the International Development Association of 24 September 1960 and adopted the deadlines and conditions laid down in Decision No 245 of the Governing Council of the International Development Association for Bulgaria's Membership in the Association. The conditions laid down in the decision of the Governing Council of the International Development Association for Bulgaria's membership are for a member of the Association under Part II of its Constitutional Treaty, namely for countries to which more favourable conditions have been applied so far. Bulgaria is scheduled to make a mandatory initial entry to the International Development Association of 3 million. Seven hundred and $558 and voluntary additional recordings on power supplies from 3rd to 18th and on the multilateral debt relief initiative amounting to a total of 1 million. 436 thousand. $626, which would give her a total of $110,000. 402 votes in the association. The decision of the Governing Council shall also specify the requirements for the entry into force of the country's membership, namely: - Deposition to the MVR of a document stating that it has adopted, in accordance with its laws, the Founding Treaty of the International Development Association and all the terms and conditions provided for in the decision of the Governing Council on its membership, and that it has taken the necessary steps to be able to fulfil all its obligations under the Treaty and the Decision. - Payment mandatory initial registration. - Sign the original of the International Development Association Founding Treaty. The deadline for meeting the above requirements is 31 December 2020 or set by the Executive Directors of the International Development Association at a later date. In view of the specifics of the international organisation's procedure, the signing of the original of the International Development Association's Constitutional Treaty constitutes a final step towards entry into force, taking effect after the adoption of the Treaty by the Member State concerned in accordance with its laws and taking all necessary steps in order to be able to fulfil its obligations under it. Funds to cover the mandatory initial subscription, as well as for the additional entries on supplies from 3 to 18 and on the multilateral debt relief initiative are provided for in the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020. The Constitutional Treaty of the International Development Association of 24 September 1960 is subject to ratification by law of the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 2, 4, 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. After the discussion of the Draft was held, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: 21 votes in favour of the International Development Association of 24 September 1960, No 002-02-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 September 2020...................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u3	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. The Foreign Policy Committee report will introduce us to Mr. Manushev. Here you go, Mr. Manushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Constitutional Treaty of the International Development Association of 24 September 1960, No 002-02-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 September 2020. At its regular meeting held on 7 October 2020, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law on ratification of the International Development Association's Constitutional Treaty of 24 September 1960, No 002-02-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 September 2020. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mrs. Marinela Petrova, Deputy Minister of Finance. The International Development Association is an organisation complementary to the activities of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u5	Colleagues, please be quiet! It's very noisy in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u6	It was established in 1960 and works to promote economic development, increase productivity and increase living standards in the less developed territories of the world. The Association provides loans, grants and technical assistance and also helps to alleviate debts under various initiatives. It is the only organization of the five from the World Bank Group, in which Bulgaria is currently not a member. Members of the International Development Association so far are the member states of the European Union, with the exception of Bulgaria and Malta. The Association and its employees shall not interfere in the political affairs of any member, nor shall they influence their decisions of a political nature. By its Decision No 570 of the Council of Ministers of 3 October 2019 in accordance with art. 105, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria approved the intention of membership of the Republic of Bulgaria in the International Association for Development. Following this decision, the Minister of Finance on 3 October 2019 submitted an application for membership of the organisation. The International Development Association provided the Republic of Bulgaria with the conditions for membership after their adoption by the Council of Ministers by Decision No 691 of 21 November 2019 on 22 May 2020. The Governing Council of the International Development Association adopted Decision No 245 on the membership of the Republic of Bulgaria in the Association with the respective specific terms and conditions for membership. Bulgaria will become a member of the International Development Association on the date on which it deposites a document to the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development stating that it has adopted in accordance with its laws the Founding Treaty of the International Development Association and all the terms and conditions provided for in the decision of the Governing Council for Bulgaria's membership in it, as well as to pay for the mandatory initial entry and signature of the original of the Founding Treaty of the International Development Association. The mandatory initial subscription amounts to 3 million. Seven hundred and $558, which gives Bulgaria the right to 1116 votes. The voluntary additional entries amount to a total of 1 million. 436 thousand. $626, which includes recordings on power supplies from 3rd to 18th under the multilateral debt relief initiative. The Constitutional Treaty of the International Development Association also provides for clauses providing immunity and privileges to its employees, immunity against taxation, a position in relation to legal processes, as well as a specific order for leaving and suspending membership, a clause for participation in arbitration and so on. According to the importer, the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the International Development Association will enable our country to join the policies and instruments of another international institution aimed at solving global issues and initiatives for global solidarity. After the debates, the Committee on Foreign Policy held a vote in which the draft voted on 13 Members of Parliament, without the opposition and 2 abstentions. On the basis of the results of the vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposed to the National Assembly to adopt, on the basis of the results of the vote, a Draft for ratification of the International Development Association's Constitutional Treaty of 24 September 1960, No 002-02-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 September 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Manushev. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. I don't see any desire. I'm closing the debate. I put to the first vote a bill for ratification of the International Development Association's Constitutional Treaty of 24 September 1960, No 002-02-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 September 2020. They voted 175 MPs: 175, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u8	Dear Madam President, I ask for a procedure to be put to the first vote on the bill to be voted on at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u9	Please vote on the procedure made by Mrs. Angelova. Vote 171 MPs: 168, no objection, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u10	THE LAW OF THE on ratification of the International Development Association's Constitutional Treaty of 24 September 1960 A single member. Ratification of the International Development Association's Founding Treaty of 24 September 1960
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u11	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the name of the Law and its sole member.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u12	Vote 178 MPs: for 178, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. [[Noise.]] We move on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. Quiet, please! We're getting into the interesting part. New questions for the period 9 October 2020: 1. A question was received from the National Representative Georgi Gokov, Vessela Lecheva, Violeta Zheleva, Milko Nedyalkov, Nadia Klisurska and Polina Shishkova to Denitsa Sacheva, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, on the policy of improving the adequacy of pensions in Bulgaria in the short and long term. Answers should be made in plenary on 23 October 2020. 2. National Representative Nikolai Ivanov and Vassil Antonov were asked at Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy, about the development of energy in the Republic of Bulgaria. Answers should be made in plenary on 23 October 2020. Written answers from: - Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev on a question from the National Representative Tanya Petrova; - Minister of Culture Boel Banov on a question from the MPs Velislava Krasteva, Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid; - Minister of Finance Kiril Ananiev to a question from the MPs Lalo Kirilov, Krasimir Yankov, Valeri Zablyanov, Nikolay Ivanov, Dimitar Stoyanov and Georgi Andreyev; - Minister of Interior Hristo Terziyski on a question from the National Representative Jayhan Ibryamov; - Minister of Interior Hristo Terziyski on a question from the National Representative Rosen Malinov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on a question from the National Representative Anna Slavova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov on a question from the National Representative Christian Vigenin; - Minister of Finance Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Georgi Turnovaliyski; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; We begin with a question to Mariana Nikolova, Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy and Minister for Tourism. She will answer a question by the National Representative Krastina Taskova on government policy in the fight against high child mortality in Bulgaria and the demographic crisis. Here you are, Mrs. Taskova, to expose your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister, as you probably know, Bulgaria takes the leading position on the highest child mortality in the European Union. The risk of every child born in our country dying before it is 5 years old is 70% higher than the European Union average. According to Eurostat data, 2020 15.5% are the deceased for the year in Bulgaria of every 1000 inhabitants. Besides health insurance, outpatient and hospital care, another extremely important factor for affordable healthcare is available medicines. In Bulgaria, the poorest country in the European Union, more than one third of children live at risk of poverty. Parents from poorer families can hardly provide regular intake of the necessary medicines, and the consequences of non-compliance with medical prescriptions are a higher number of hospitalizations and complications, more frequent visits to emergency rooms and to a doctor, as well as deprivation of resources for other basic needs such as food and clothing. Although there are positive lists of medicines that the NHIF covers in full or in part, the data show that in Bulgaria the poorest country in the European Union, the direct payments are mainly payments for medicines and outpatient assistance, are the highest of nearly three times the average direct payments for health in the European Union, which average around 15.8% in the European Union and for Bulgaria more than 46.6%. More than 6% of its monthly income to cover medicines gives almost every Bulgarian family compared to any other member of the European Union. In the field of mother and child health, there is also a serious shortage of funds in covering children's medicines. According to a sociological study ordered by the Bulgarian Pediatric Association, for a child up to one year a month are given about 100 BGN. In addition, half of which are for drugs. Only 11.13% of the entire budget of the National Health Insurance Fund is for children's health, and only 5% of all the funds that the National Health Insurance Fund spends annually for full or partial coverage of expenditure on medicines are for children. Due to the demographic and economic crisis in certain regions of the country, there are settlements where there is a noticeable lack of pharmacies, pediatricians and profiled specialists in children's diseases, which requires additional costs of transport in case of consultation with a specialist. All these stressful data show that the health of the population should be prioritized by ensuring accessible healthcare, even more so when Bulgaria takes the lead in statistics on the highest mortality of children. As you know, several times during the mandate of the Forty-fourth National Assembly, I ask you the question of dealing with the demographic crisis...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u14	Go straight to the questions, Mrs. Taskova, because your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u15	...but we don't see concrete measures in your answers anyway. Due to the passage of time, I will ask directly questions to you as Minister responsible precisely for demographic policy and Deputy Prime Minister responsible for the activities of the Minister of Health and Minister of Labour and Social Policy. What measures are being taken by the Ministry of Health in support of ensuring affordable and effective healthcare and affordable medicines for children? What measures are being taken by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to ensure the employment of young parents, their social assistance in raising their children and encouraging young families to have more than one child? What specific measures will be taken to combat the demographic crisis, high infant mortality and an increasing percentage of the population living at risk of poverty? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Taskova. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u17	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Ms. Taskova, in the Programme for the Management of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria in the period 2017 - 2021, measures related to the improvement of the quality of care in children's and children's health care are laid down. Under the Health Insurance Act, all children under the age of 18 and after that age, if they study regularly, are health insurance at the expense of the state budget. In order to improve the hospital care of small patients, given the specifics caused by the peculiarities of the children's organism and the course of the diseases in children, the National Framework contract for medical activities for 2019 increased the prices of clinical pathways for hospital treatment of children. Additional for children with severe diseases in cases where treatment cannot be carried out in a timely manner in the country or the necessary diagnostic treatment procedures cannot be carried out in the Republic of Bulgaria, NHIF shall grant authorisation for planning treatment abroad. Under the Health Act, persons up to the age of 18 years are entitled to medical care outside the scope of compulsory health insurance, which includes payment by means of the state budget of medical devices, medicinal products that are not included in the Positive Drug List. Treatment for oncology and onco-hematology started before the age of 18 years continues to be paid after the age of that age until the completion of the specific treatment. Prevention is a top priority for children's health. It is included in the activities carried out in the outpatient medical care within the health activities packages, guaranteed by the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. For children with established chronic diseases, order is also provided for dispensary monitoring depending on the specific disease. For all children in the country free, highly effective and safe vaccines for mandatory immunizations and reimmunizations are provided. In the implementation of the National Programme for the Improvement of Child Health and Child Health 2014 - 2020 31 health consultative centers were opened, providing specialized medical consultations outside the scope of health insurance for children with disabilities and chronic diseases, mothers and pregnant with increased medical risk. In order to reduce the incidence of early childhood acute gastroenteritis, measures were also taken to immunize children to six weeks of age. This is realized through the National Programme for the Treatment and Control of Rotavirus Gastroenterites 2017 - 2021. Funds are also provided for the implementation of three projects for providing mobile health services to pregnant women and children up to 3 years of age with emphasis on groups at risk and focus on Roma population. The National Programme for primary prevention of cervical cancer 2017 - 2020 provides immunization protection for girls from the main target groups 12 and 13 years in order to achieve a reduction in morbidity and mortality from cervical cancer in the country. Within the framework of the National Programme for the Prevention of Chronic Infectious Diseases 2014 - 2020 activities are provided for children and adolescents on promotion of health and prevention of diseases aimed at limiting risk factors related to lifestyles, unhealthy eating, low physical activity, alcohol use. In order to improve oral health of children, the Ministry of Health financed two national programs for prevention of oral diseases in children from zero to 18 years of age. The National Program for the Prevention of Oral Diseases in Children from zero to 18 years and for the period 2021 - 2026 is to be adopted. As a result of the measures taken in recent years, there has been a long-standing and lasting trend towards reducing the rate of infant mortality, the number of deceased children up to one year of age assigned to the number of live children in the relevant period. In 2019, the infant mortality rate reached 5.6 per 1,000 live births at a value of 13.3 per 1000 in 2000, 7.4 per 1000 in 2014 and 5.8 in 2018. The reduction of the infant mortality rate to 6.8 per 1,000 live births is one of the national health objectives set out in the National Health Strategy 2020. This objective was achieved in 2016. Insofar as infant mortality is a statistical indicator with the highest degree of dependence on the quality of health services provided to mothers and children, its reduction should be considered as objective evidence of a positive result of policy implementation and of active measures taken to improve child and mother health. It should be borne in mind that family aid is financed only by State budget funds. The amounts of family support for children are determined annually by the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. At present, single childbirth assistance is differentiated according to the order of the children. It is also guaranteed the payment of monthly support for raising a child until secondary education is completed, but not more than 20 years old, depending on the number of children. At the moment, the granting of this aid is also linked to the incomes of the family, as well as to the inclusion of children and students in compulsory pre-school and school age in the educational system and to the carrying out of all mandatory immunizations and preventive examinations for them according to their age and health status. It is important to bear in mind that family aid is only one element of support for children and families, and it cannot be considered as the main tool for resolving the demographic crisis and promoting birth rates. Complex measures are needed aimed at creating appropriate conditions for the birth and raising of children in combination with family and professional life. For unemployed single parents with children up to 5 years of age, a targeted incentive measure is implemented, which is financed by state budget funds. According to the employment agency for the period...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u18	Set your course for completion.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u19	...January 1 - October 11, 2020 24,385 parents with children up to the age of 5. Last but not least, it is important to stress that the development of the new Human Resources Development Programme and the Food Programme and/or basic material assistance that will be implemented in the period 2021 - 2027. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Ms. Taskova, you have the floor for two additional questions. I note to the honourable Members that today there are 914 registered with a coronavirus and 15 dead. I beg you, put your masks on when you're in plenary!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u21	Dear Deputy Prime Minister, I have in front of me the Action Plan for the implementation of the National Health Strategy 2020, which you also mentioned in your reply. After my detailed introduction to him, since apparently all the issues concerning the demographic crisis in our country and child mortality refer to this strategy, my question to you is: why is this plan for 2020 not an analysis of the causes of high child mortality? Because if we don't know what the reasons are and if we don't have these statistics, it's very difficult to take measures, which is completely understandable. My second question is: what is the reason for lack of public attention, I suppose, and is not uploaded on the website of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy The updated national strategy for demographic development of the population of the Republic of Bulgaria 2012/ 2030? For 2020 there is no such information, and if it is prepared, can you introduce the MPs, and through us the whole society, what are the results of its implementation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Taskova. Mrs. Nikolova, please come in and answer both questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u23	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Ms. Taskova, as I have already mentioned in my reply, demographic policy has a horizontal nature and in its implementation it is of particular importance interinstitutional interaction and cooperation. Of course, the statistics that you are quoting are mandatory and it is used by data that we take into account annually. With regard to strategic documents, their publicity and transparency, there is a regulatory procedure and they really must be accessible. For what you have reported, I will make sure that these circumstances that you say are true and there is no such publicity. I can also inform you that we are working to continuously improve various measures that are additional and have a lasting nature that would be enshrined in the Strategy at the moment. For example, in the case of funding from state social security, compensation for maternity leave until 1 year of age shall be applied in a specific form. If the mother starts working after six months of age of the child, in addition to receiving her salary, she also receives 50% of her compensation. So I can say that we stimulate women to return to the labour market, increase their income and improve their quality of life. Additional specific forms shall also apply when receiving monthly support for children up to the age of 18 years, so-called children's supplements in families where the mother is underage and is unable to organise the use of the aid granted by the State. It's obtained in kind by vouchers. It also applies to families for which social workers have found that they do not use the financial resources provided responsibly in the interests of the child. There is still much to be desired from the point of view of combining motherhood with the labor-professional realization of the woman. There are still employers who do not accept pregnant women, women with young children. Although rare, there are cases where women of reproductive age work in adverse working conditions, especially when working in the informal economy. I would also like to emphasise that demographic policy, including motherhood and child care, the promotion of responsible parenthood, policies to promote birth and family support require cooperation. This cooperation must be between the political forces, between the state and the social partners, between the state and civil society. It is the only way we will be able to face the great challenges facing society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Ms. Taskova, you have the floor for the answers received. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u25	Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, I didn't get an answer to my questions. I hope that's because the information on them is bulky. In fact, the most basic thing, in order to be able to take any measures, you need to know what the cause of the problem is. Obviously, there is no such analysis in Bulgaria. We obviously do not know why children up to five years in Bulgaria die the most in the European Union. I fully understand that in two minutes you can't tell me this information, either to me or to the MPs, but you were prepared with something quite different in terms of women's policies, mother's health and child's health. This year, in this budget, we will again submit a proposal for motherhood for the second year to be aligned with the minimum wage for the country and I hope for your support as Deputy Prime Minister. In order to receive this extremely important information, colleagues, in order to teach the whole Bulgarian society what this terrifying statistics are due to, this horrifying fact.. first child mortality in the European Union, I have once called you.. you know that according to the Rules of Procedure in today's plenary sitting, if my asking is recognized by 48 MPs as support, it can grow into a debate and adopt a decision of the National Assembly that will oblige Deputy Prime Minister Mariana Nikolova, as a representative of the Council of Ministers, to prepare such an analysis and present it to the entire Bulgarian society through us. We from WALK are 12 MPs. We've all signed this decision. We're ready. I hope another 36 MPs in this House will decide that the children of Bulgaria are their priority and will sign. Otherwise, in violation of the Rules, we will submit this decision with 12 signatures, only to show what formality limits the Bulgarians' ability to understand the causes of the highest child mortality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Taskova. [[Deputy Prime Minister Mariana Nikolova is leaving the Chamber. President Valeri Simeonov wishes her a pleasant job.]] We are moving on to questions to the Deputy Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva. She'll answer two questions. The first is the MP Lalo Kirilov on the rights of the citizens of Bulgaria in the UK. The second question is again by Mr. Lalo Kirilov on measures for the smooth residence of Bulgarians in the UK. The practice in the National Assembly requires the unification of these two identical issues, very close, so you have the floor to ask questions. You have two minutes. Then you interrupt, you ask the next question, you have two more minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u27	In total?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u28	A total of four, but you need to make a distinction between them to understand when you move on to the second question. I'll keep a close watch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u29	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, the citizens of the European Union who have received Settled or Pre-Settled Status will not receive a physical document to certify their right of residence, work, access to the health system of the country and so on. This will lead to an avalanche of problems with institutions, schools, employers, landlords and others. What measures has the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria taken to guarantee the rights of the citizens of Bulgaria in the UK after Brexit? The second question is: according to Home Office data, the UK Ministry of Interior, by 30 June this year 184 910 citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria have applied for residence status in the UK. Of these 40% received Settled Status and 58 received Pre-Settled Status. Those who have received Pre-Settled Status will have less rights than those who have received Settled Status. What measures has the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria taken to ensure the smooth residence of Bulgarians in the UK after Brexit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u30	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, come in, you have six minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u31	Dear Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Kirilov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! From the moment of the referendum and the beginning of the negotiations one of the main priorities of the Bulgarian government is protection of the rights of Bulgarian citizens. We have firmly argued that this should also be the main task of the negotiating teams of the European Commission, which are currently negotiating with Britain. We have been able to reach an Agreement on withdrawal, albeit long negotiated, which entered into force since 1 February this year, and guarantees the rights of all citizens of the European Union, including the Bulgarians, as well as the members of their families who arrived in the United Kingdom before the end of the transitional period of 31 December 2020. Bulgarian citizens who have not yet acquired the right to permanent residence but currently live in the UK are fully protected by the Withdrawal Agreement. They may continue to reside in the country and acquire the right of permanent residence when they reach five years of age that is the difference between the two statuses. Even citizens who will arrive in the UK by the end of this year will enjoy the same rights and obligations as those who arrived before 1 February before the entry into force of the Agreement. Like all other European citizens and Bulgarians in the UK, they will have to apply under the EU's Sitting Scheme so that they can continue to enjoy the rights they currently have after the end of this year. If their candidacy is successful, they will be granted the status of an established person giving them the right to permanent residence or the status of a person in the process of establishing the so-called Pre-setled status. Once they reach a period of five years of legal residence in the UK, they will be able to apply for permanent residence status. The decision to grant residence status or temporary residence status is a matter of UK internal rules and is based on clearly defined requirements. There is a difference between the two statuses in the volume of social rights used, subject to the period of stay of the person concerned. The question of the need to issue a material document certifying the status of sedentary residence has repeatedly been put before the British authorities, both by Bulgaria and by other countries that have larger diasporas there. Recommendations in this regard were formulated by both the European Commission and the House of Lords and the House of Commons, i.e. their two chambers in the British Parliament. All along, our embassy has been an active participant in the formation of these positions. It should be borne in mind that one of the red lines of the British Government is the firm position that a physical document, i.e. despite the call of both their Parliament, the Commission and a series of Member States, that a physical document certifying the status of residence of the citizens of the European Union will not be issued. So far, that's their position. According to them, the reasons are that the future is in the digitalisation and use of digital administrative services, which provide an easy and secure way to prove the immigration status of individuals. The electronic service developed by the government allows all interested parties to be able to verify their rights. If necessary, again electronically, they may share this information with their future employer or other institution. As for your question, what measures have we taken to ensure the smooth residence of Bulgarians in Britain after Brexit, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the United Kingdom strongly insists after 31 December 2020, after the end of the transitional period, to exercise its full sovereignty in terms of controlling its borders and not to apply the principle of free movement of people, which is one of the fundamental principles of the European Union. The issue of the rights of all citizens of the European Union after Brexit, including the Bulgarians, is part of the negotiations on future relations between the European Union and the United Kingdom. In the course of the negotiations so far, we have always and invariably supported the single approach to settling this future policy of theirs with regard to the treatment of all citizens of the European Union, regardless of their national affiliation. Finally, I would like to turn from the stand to the Bulgarian citizens in the UK to thank them for being active. To recall: two years ago we started a campaign to inform Bulgarian citizens with over 30 information days in different places and campaigns. The fact is that we were, and I think we are still, the first nationality, number one, which is the highest percentage applied and received this status. I would like to address them to continue to be active, to be informed by both the embassy and the UK institutions about the situation. And another call that we have been making for two years, which turned out not to have been in vain, as the United Kingdom announced that in a year's time, we would have to travel with passports -- not with ID cards -- as it has so far been -- that is, only one year from now there will be a transitional period. In part of the information campaign we also included a call for Bulgarian citizens there not to wait until the last moment, and those who do not have passports to provide them so that they will not be able to go out or enter the country. Thank you for these questions and I think this is another opportunity to inform Bulgarian citizens about the situation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Kirilov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u33	Thanks for the answer, but in it I did not hear a few important topics. I have heard that the House of Lords has adopted an opinion and a law to issue to the citizens of the European Union physical documents, but I doubt that the Lower House will accept one. This is important because all other citizens in Britain, who are not citizens of the European Union, will have such physical documents and taking up work or social benefits will be much easier. The other option: when they are European citizens, they will be entitled to electronic documents, but they must give consent to the employer, who will do his own checking. It is a kind of passive discrimination right to our citizens......... not a small part of them are of low status who do not know the language and do not have computer literacy. These are about 60 thousand people who, if they do not receive social benefits, at the end of this year and the beginning of the next one, are expected to return to the territory of the country and load our social system. The second thing that I think is important, I didn't hear what campaign the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, specifically our embassy in London? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u34	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u35	Perhaps you didn't hear me say the House of Lords and the House of Commons in the sense of the UK Parliament. I think you should not underestimate the Bulgarian citizens in Britain. The fact that, despite the electronic system, I do not want to quote what you said, but in the first six, seven months Bulgaria was twice as much submitted as a percentage of the population, because ours are not an absolute number, for example the Poles are much more in the UK, but as a percentage of the residents there we have been in times more than the other countries, it means that Bulgarian citizens are well oriented in the situation and can submit documents electronically for both statuses. I have said many times what informational days have been held. Over 30 open days have taken place not only in London but also in other cities. We started doing this two years ago, that is, from the moment we had clarity on exactly what would be required even before Britain announced and opened the application system. I can also tell you what the problems were at the beginning of the system. We worked to remove them, that is, we appealed to their authorities to remove them. I think that Bulgarian citizens should not be underestimated because the fact is that they are still the largest percentage of citizens who have acquired one of the two statuses.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. The next question is from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov on the capacity to serve Bulgarian citizens in the UK. Here you are, Mr. Yankov. You have two minutes to present your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u37	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Zaharieva, my question to you is related to the concern of our fellow citizens with regard to the capacity which the export units of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs provide. Much of our fellow citizens in Britain have not yet applied for a new status of seclusion, despite the closing of the transitional period in which European legislation operates in the territory of the United Kingdom. The fact that you explain that it is the highest percentage of the Bulgarian community compared to other communities does not soothe perhaps all of our fellow citizens in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, who have relatives in the United Kingdom, especially that the percentage of the non-assisted status as an absolute number is not at all small. What measures has the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria taken to provide maximum support to these citizens, given that the embassy does not have the necessary base, capacity and resources to serve a community that, by our information, is over 300,000 people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u38	Thank you. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u39	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Yankov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to draw attention to the fact that the status is not granted by the Bulgarian Embassy, as you know by the British authorities. There is no British registration system for Bulgarians, especially for them living in the UK, so it is difficult to say exactly how many Bulgarians are, unfortunately. According to Home Office statistics, until 30 June 2020. 184 910 Bulgarian citizens have applied for the status of residence. The following statistics will be by nationality and will be presented at the end of October. It should be borne in mind that a certain part of these persons do not actually reside in the territory of the country, but have a legal basis for applying, which they have taken advantage of. Beyond this number remain Bulgarians who have received British citizenship, as well as seasonal residents, and students who are about 6 thousand, but tend to decline after 1 January 2020. The Bulgarians in the territory of the UK are well aware of the requirements for obtaining the status of residence. They are informed that the deadline for applying for status has been extended until 30 June 2021, i.e. they have more than eight months. As early as November 2018, I repeat, I do not know why this is so unclear, we launched an explanatory campaign for the Bulgarian community in the UK to provide detailed information on the procedure and the conditions for applying for the two statuses. In the framework of this campaign in 2018, 6 informative meetings were held and in 2019. "Such information events are available at: http://ec.europa.eu/environment/index_en.htm Following the month of February 2020, for explainable reasons related to the CoVID epidemic, these meetings were suspended. In order to compensate for this fact and to help the Bulgarian community, the Bulgarian Embassy moved a detailed manual on its website, in which step by step instructions are given on how to apply under the seating scheme. Contact details of a non-governmental organization that assists Bulgarian citizens in applying are also presented, i.e. those who do not know enough language or have difficulty with the electronic system. Every day the embassy provides information by phone, by email of the requests made on the same topic. Along with this, at the initiative of our embassy in London, the British institutions were asked about a serious omission in the registration system, which I mentioned earlier. Initially the Bulgarian citizens' names in the text of the application were written only in Cyrillic. Home office made changes in the system and the names of Bulgarian citizens can be written both in Bulgarian and in Latin. I would like to point out an important fact. Status of residence have received 40.1%, while temporary status of sedentary residence is 58.4% of the applied Bulgarian citizens. According to Home Office data, the rate of registration for obtaining the two statuses is the largest among the Bulgarian community. As much as you are trying to suggest that we have not done well, the facts say the exact opposite, which means I will stress that the Bulgarian citizens are well acquainted and can handle the system. As they say, numbers don't lie. There is no way to challenge the numbers given by the British institutions. I want to assure you that we will continue to cooperate and I hope those who have failed to submit an application and have an extended deadline have plenty of time to manage it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u40	Just a second, since the official language is Bulgarian, several times you have used the home office. Explain what "home office" means, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u41	The Home Office.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u42	Thank you. Mr. Yankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u43	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Zaharieva, I am asking you about what you have done and you are making excuses for the British authorities. Statistics are available to everyone who is interested, only if you think that for such a large Bulgarian community in the UK, a explanatory campaign of 35 meetings in one year is enough?! Don't you think you could be more active, have an active policy to protect the rights of our fellow citizens? Again, this concerns hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens in Britain. What you do and how you protect the rights of our fellow citizens abroad are interested in all who are close, relatives, friends and live in Bulgaria. The most simple thing you could do is an open line, a direct line to assist, including those of our fellow citizens who do not know the language that is needed to be able to extract all the necessary documents. What should we do? To give your phone, to make it public to call you directly to find out that there is a need for those who live in Britain and not only to feel that the state in the face of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is concerned and can be active in terms of settling their status.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u44	Thank you. Your line was in the form of a recommendation. Mrs. Zaharieva, you're going to use the right to dodge, I presume? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u45	Thank you for your concern for Bulgarian citizens. I'm not going in the line and the back with your rude tone. I want to assure the Bulgarian citizens who are in the UK, and they know very well that the Bulgarian experience with the exported days is not little 35 in one year, believe me, was actually requested by other countries because their rates continue to be lower. So the employees of the embassy and let us still have recognition of their work, and the Bulgarian state, and the Bulgarian Foreign Ministry will end this, provide and continue to provide assistance to those who wish to receive this status.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u46	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. I must inform you that Mr. Iankov has also prepared a second question for you concerning the need for consular service in Scotland, Ireland and Wales. Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u47	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs Zaharieva, when it comes to opportunities, the capacity of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, my question is regarding the need for consular services in Scotland, Ireland and Wales. There is no consulate in Britain in Scotland, Ireland and Wales. The only consular service is being housed in the embassy building in London.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u48	Is this about Northern Ireland?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u49	What measures has the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria taken to ensure adequate service, protection and access to information for our fellow citizens living in Scotland, Ireland and Wales? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u50	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Mrs. Zaharieva, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u51	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Iankov, I assume you mean Northern Ireland because Ireland is a separate country and is not part of the United Kingdom. In Ireland since 1990 Bulgaria has a consular service which is housed at our embassy in Dublin. I will specifically answer your question and include Northern Ireland, not Ireland. According to the UK Interior Ministry [[laughs]] The distribution of the Bulgarian citizens who applied for and received the status is as follows: in England.... 167 860 people, in Northern Ireland.... 4440 people, in Scotland....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... By the end of June 2020, more than 91% of the Bulgarian citizens who applied for and received residence status resided in the territory of England. It is there, in the capital city of London, that the Consular Service of the Republic of Bulgaria and part of our embassy are also located. That is why it is quite natural to concentrate our efforts there. In accordance with the 2019 Council of Ministers' Decision adopting an action plan of January 2019 of the Republic of Bulgaria implementing the Agreement on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain, Northern Ireland from the EU, and the Republic of Bulgaria's Action Plan for the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU without agreement, the state of our embassy in London has been increased by two more employees. Currently, three consuls, five technical assistants, one person under civil contract are employed by the Consulate Office. In the summer months additional staff from Sofia to assist the service are posted each year. The reconstruction, modernization and expansion of the consulate's premises will begin, which will further improve the working conditions and increase the capacity to serve Bulgarian citizens. Again, I would like to stress that according to statistics the main part of the Bulgarian community is established in England and in particular in London. The analysis of these facts has shown that at this stage it is not appropriate to reveal the Consulate of the Republic of Bulgaria in Edinburgh City of Scotland, in Belfast, in Northern Ireland, and in Cardiff, due to the figures I mentioned to you at the beginning. Moreover, we live in a time when with the help of information technology and the Internet, any information is immediately entered on the computer screen or on the mobile phone, regardless of where Bulgarian citizens live in England, Scotland, Northern Ireland or Wales. Thus, by consulting the website of our embassy in London or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, after an email or telephone request, they can receive information on the status of residence equally quickly in real time. In addition, I would say that the website of our embassy on social networks is one of the most visited, and I can assure you that we are doing these analyses carefully, we are monitoring the number of Bulgarian citizens on the territory of the United Kingdom, and when they increase in Northern Ireland, Scotland or Wales, we will do another analysis. But at the moment, [[laughs]] With this data we have, it is inappropriate to disclose consular services. Rather, we need to focus, and what we are doing is strengthening the service in London.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister for the comprehensive answers. They seem to be causing great interest, the House is starting to fill with MPs. Thank you again. Mr. Yankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u53	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Zaharieva! Dear compatriots in Britain, there will be no further expansion of the capacity of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to assist your service and the Minister of Foreign Affairs is funny to him. Of course, it is about Northern Ireland, since in the context of the questions we are asking you, we do not refer to Ireland and the representation in Dublin. I don't understand what you see so funny in the serious questions we have asked because of the interest our compatriots have in Britain?! The fact that you have announced from the National Assembly's stands that you consider it sufficient capacity that you are providing for a repair that will increase this capacity, I think it does not satisfy any of those who have cashiership with the exported units of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Great Britain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u54	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Will you use your doppelganger right or not, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister? No. The next question is again to Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva and he is from Nikolai Ivanov about the Bulgarian community in London. Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u55	Two questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u56	I know it's two questions, the two issues are united. Yes, the second question is about the Citizen-Led Engagement Program to the Mayor of London. I'm just going to ask you to explain what this expression means?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u57	Dear Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u58	A moment, a moment, when you ask questions, it is nice to then describe the Bulgarian meaning of the concept. Thank you. You're welcome to develop the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u59	Thank you, too. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Zaharieva, and my questions are related to my desire to turn your attention to the challenges facing the Bulgarian community in Britain as the end of the transitional period approaches, in which European legislation operates in the territory of the United Kingdom. And you confirmed that the Bulgarian community in the UK is one of the largest in Europe and the number of Bulgarians in London is approximate to the number of Bulgarians living in the third largest city in Bulgaria. Perhaps, as a relative proportion to the population of Bulgaria, our community in Britain is the largest. There are dozens of Bulgarian schools and kindergartens on the territory of London. A serious Bulgarian business is also under way, expressed in shops and restaurants, transport companies, accounting agencies, even private Bulgarian hospitals. In some parts of London the Bulgarian community is one of the largest. It's like Emfield, Brand, Edmonton and others. In parallel with this process of identification and integration in society, negative processes are also observed. In 2017, the Bulgarian community in London was identified as one of the six priority communities of the team of the mayor of London, the reasons are complex, but the main reasons are a difficult process of integration, low or lack of qualification, weak or lack of knowledge of English and last but not least, cultural differences. In this regard are my questions to you. Two consecutive programs Citizen-Led Engineering in 2017 and 2018 and...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u60	Translation, translation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u61	...2019 and 2020. This, Mr. Chairman, are integration programmes initiated by citizens. The Bulgarian community was once again defined as a priority. My questions are related to this: what measures has the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria taken in this direction, when and how many meetings were held with the team of the mayor of London? And my second question: which district town halls has been contacted in the town halls in which the Bulgarian community is one of the biggest; when and with whom were talks and in general what practical support was given by the Bulgarian authorities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u62	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u63	Dear Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Ivanov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I hope that, after all, in the answers to the previous questions, which were more or less related to this topic, it has become clear that the Embassy of Bulgaria in the UK and our diplomats on the ground are undoubtedly working actively to protect the rights and interests of the Bulgarian community. The fact is that some of the problems of the community are really related, in fact you described them well to us these are the main problems and are related to different cases in the local administration. Here I can assure you, I am at least assured by the embassy and by the consular office that, at any request for assistance of Bulgarian citizens to the embassy or to the consular office, we have sought contact with the local and municipal administration for its timely authorisation. However, we should not forget that the mediation between representatives of the Bulgarian community and the town halls can be initiated only if we are addressed by Bulgarian citizens with a specific case or sometimes by the mayors themselves for a particular problem. I will give you an example from the beginning of this month, when the embassy has cooperated with Bulgarian Sunday schools in Liverpool, Manchester and Chester for restoring the normal learning process, they are suspended due to the restrictions imposed by the CIVID-19 epidemic. I would like to draw attention to the fact that local authorities are not directly concerned with resolving perhaps the most recent problem of our citizens at present, namely the application procedures for the status of residence, except in individual cases relating to providing information on this subject, i.e. their necessary documents. If you are referring to this type of meeting between the embassy and local authorities, I cannot give you a single answer, because the scheme for applying for the status of residence is entirely within the prerogatives of the British Government, that is, there is no need to meet the mayors. I will note that the Embassy of the Republic of Bulgaria in London does not communicate with the Bulgarian community through the mediation of local authorities, we communicate with them directly. If you are referring to the cases of specific mayors who won grants from the British Government to assist European citizens in their application under the sedentary scheme, they do not partner with embassies or with foreign governments, but with non-governmental organisations and communities. We should not forget that in view of the situation of recent months, all mayorships in the area of large London under the conditions of COVID-19 have been closed and have virtually ceased or severely restricted physical contacts with outsiders and organisations. Only the work of the basic administrative structure shall be maintained and the main activities shall be carried out remotely. As far as your question is concerned, I will try to translate it into a citizens' programme, or to support, the aim of this programme, as you have said, is to strengthen the commitment of the mayors to communities whose voice and influence on public policy are insufficiently represented. There are various programs to them.. identifying the leaders in the community, generating valuable information to inform the policy and practice of the town hall and so on. This programme aims to invite local community groups to apply for free funding, with the idea of facilitating their own research projects in cooperation with the city council of large London. Candidates for participation in the programme may be registered charities, social institutions or NGOs in the public interest. There is no place for the embassies of the countries concerned to participate in this programme. The associations of the non-governmental sector in the different municipalities are the partners of the London City Hall in this venture. It is unacceptable for a foreign embassy to interfere with the decision-making process of local authorities concerning the financing of one project or another. I can say that at present no association or structure of Bulgarians from the local community or any other public group concerned with the situation of our communities has informed the embassy of an imported project for local funding. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u65	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Zaharieva, nowhere in my question was I looking for information from you about how the Bulgarian authorities or the Bulgarian Embassy helped to earn grants on specific programmes, including in the local town halls, but rather the lack of activity. Here I would like to say that our reproaches are not the work of the Bulgarian Embassy, but the formal commitment of the Bulgarian Foreign Ministry and the Bulgarian authorities to the integration of Bulgarians in the UK, London. If I could sum up what they said before me and my colleagues. I think that this activity of the Bulgarian authorities in Bulgaria against our diaspora in London should be expressed in a longer-term strategy. Not only in recent months, and the problem with a horse is an excuse to ask these questions. Don't you think we need a new, adequate and working national strategy for working with the large newly formed Bulgarian communities abroad? You have heard the proposal from my colleague Iankov on the opening of a hotline related to issues regarding the status of Bulgarians in the UK related to Brexit. I do not think that the issue of the rights of Bulgarian citizens is enough to be part of the common European approach to the rights of European citizens in Britain after 31 December. I strongly disagree that the Bulgarian government should be limited to this effort. With regard to the information meetings held, yes, many meetings have indeed been held, but how many Bulgarian citizens have been able to attend them? Probably hundreds, and the other hundreds of thousands, hardly. In our opinion, it is also necessary to develop a strategy for working with Bulgarian schools and libraries in the UK, as Bulgaria is the only EU country that has absolutely no literature in the Bulgarian language. On the territory of London there are dozens of Bulgarian schools and libraries with sections in foreign languages. Bulgarian authorities' interest in Bulgarians abroad should not be only when parliamentary elections are coming. This practice is high time to change. I hope that with our questions, which are undoubtedly initiated by the problem posed by our compatriots living in London, will be of little benefit to the change in the policy of the Bulgarian authorities to the Bulgarians abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u66	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Would you like to use the back, Mrs. Zaharieva? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u67	I fully agree with you that the care of the Bulgarian authorities should by no means be before elections, and I assure you that it is not. The Bulgarian Foreign Ministry is primarily contacting not only, of course, but mainly through its missions, they are there, so Bulgarian citizens and Bulgarian taxpayers actually send these people there, this is their main task. I will stress again, because in the previous questions I said that there is a phone, there is a special email, there is a special section of the embassy with step by step described how the applications are submitted No way, you said yourself that according to your data, or previous data, there were 300,000. No matter how direct phone lines we find, there are phones, there are phones, there are phones, there are emergency phones of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Another special line was discovered during the time of the Kovid, but not to list what we have done. We have tried to cover all the ways of reaching information and through information days with physical presence, both through emails and via phones and through social networks and through the website of the Ministry and the Embassy, that is, we have tried to cover as much as possible all sources through which we can reach information to the Bulgarian citizens. You mentioned the Bulgarian schools correctly. Let me stress that they are supported by the Bulgarian government and it is not true that we do not pay attention. In fact, this is one of the most important programs of the state in relation to the Bulgarian communities not only in the UK, but also everywhere in the world. I will end with the fact that the integration of the community in a country must primarily take care of the structures of this country. They didn't create the programs you asked me about for a reason, and I answered. It's not funny to me, nor do I think we've done absolutely 100 percent of everything. It is no coincidence that in every reply I stressed that the campaign continues, we continue to cooperate. This will not only be during Brexit, but also after the deadline for submission of the residence status and after the expiry of the transitional period.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Your answers filled the hall, so please come back. I'll see you around. [[Replication by National Representative Cornelia Ninova: "Declaration. "]] Do you have a statement outside the agenda? Who's gonna do it? Personally, Mrs. Ninova. Especially because of you, the complete cleaning of the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u69	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Health Minister! New information comes out every day about the cases of infected with COVID-19 in Bulgaria and Europe. As winter approaches, influenza diseases will increase and the situation will become more complicated. From now on, hospitals are starting to experience difficulties, we saw the cases in Targovishte, Gotse Delchev, Petrich yesterday. At the first tide of COVID-19 in March and April this year, we were not prepared as a state and as a government. Adhok was acting, often chaotic and inconsistent. A panic has been created in the population with immense statements for sacks, for corpses, catafalkes,.............................................................................................. Decisions were changed within 24 hours, which led to chaos in society, in the economy, including such situations of congestion, of plugs, of checkpoints of entry and exit from cities, overload of police and so on. People were changing at the National Headquarters who contradicted each other in the assessment of the situation, and this led to even greater chaos. The state reserve wasn't prepared for a reaction at the first moment. There was no clarity which hospitals took the first hit. Doctors were not protected and some refused to enter the infectious wards unprotected. We want all of this to be avoided now. We want a clear action plan with care for the people and we propose this action plan with care for the people. This is the National Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria for readiness for influenza epidemic, adopted in 2006, last updated in 2017. There is no logical explanation why this plan was not implemented in March and April, but none of the government to escape responsibility and to assign responsibility to the created Adkoch National Operational Headquarters by doctors, but not to assume political responsibility, but now it is time to put order, to have responsibility. [[shows]] That is why we propose to see this plan because it has extremely seriously developed periods, phases and levels of influenza epidemic, there are data on the population by districts, data on medical and healthcare institutions and the number of medical staff in Bulgaria, the type and the number of vaccines, medicines and antiviral preparations required for the whole population, calculated by districts, non-treatment means. There have been developed measures in relation to the patients, in relation to contact with the patients; measures limiting the transmission of the disease; measures in international and internal travels. This document has been drawn up in coordination with the World Health Organisation, the European Commission and the Council of Europe. It clearly lists deadlines for action and responsibilities. There are no episodic bodies such as the National Operational Headquarters, and the National Epidemic Committee, which is attended by deputy ministers of the responsible ministries and is headed by a deputy prime minister. We want this plan to be debated here in the National Assembly and to be updated in time, if necessary, and to be strictly implemented by the government. Our goal is to create order, to have predictability, to have responsible individuals from the government, not to allow panic and chaos, to prepare the health system and most importantly to provide care for people! Therefore, today, Mr Health Minister, there will be a question following me from my fellow doctors in our parliamentary group, with signatures for debate next week and with a draft decision for the National Assembly, the government to consider this plan, to update it if necessary, and from now on strictly follow it for one purpose, I repeat, only with care for the people. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. You're welcome to join us in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u71	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! It's the way it's supposed to be. Dear Mr. President, I think that you need to make a comment to BSP colleagues at the moment, since they are so concerned about the situation, to put on their masks, as I see that 33.2% of them are without masks. [[Laughter at GERB.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u72	Thank you. I did it once. I'll do it one more time. [[Applause from GERB.]] Dear colleagues, especially medical personnel, today there are 914 cases of newly infected Coronavirus and 15 deceased. So please put your masks on. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm taking procedure in the manner of conduct, because yes, we have to follow all the measures. Yeah, we should all wear masks! Isn't that right, Minister? But, Mr. Minister, please issue uniform orders, because from the order you issued, and from the answer you answered to me as a MP, along with Mr. Malinov, you clearly wrote that this room has no free access for citizens, there is no free access for journalists...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u74	What's the procedure for me? I couldn't figure it out.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u75	Mr. President, since you have made a remark to colleagues and wearing masks in this Chamber at this time is not mandatory, and Members of Parliament...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u76	I mean, I shouldn't have made a remark to them, is that the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u77	...the Members of the National Assembly are not in violation of any order at the moment, no law and, Minister, I take the opportunity to address you to the Director of the Regional Health Inspectorate to revoke any decrees and orders that he is trying to impose on the Parliamentary Group in connection with your order which does not correspond to this House in which we are together at the moment. Yes, you're right, you're right, and everyone who claims we have to follow the measures must keep the distance. But, Minister, you can see that there are no three feet between the MPs. That is, if we are to comply with the mask order, please order the Presidency to arrange the MPs over a meter and a half, as you say in each statement that there should be distance, disinfection and protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u78	It wasn't much of a procedure, Mr. Svilensky, but you can also assist your group to disperse at a rate of 50 feet. I expect your cooperation, as well as the leadership of the group. We're moving on to... [[Replicates from the BSP for Bulgaria "The Minister wants the floor!"]] He may want to answer, but we are in a parliamentary control procedure. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]] Parliamentary control regulates when the minister can take the floor and when not. [[Replys from the BSP for Bulgaria "At any time!"]] Yeah, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u79	Dear Mr. President, I understand your aspiration to observe the letter and spirit of the Rules, but still read it well and see that the ministers are entitled at any time to take the floor during a meeting of the National Assembly, without specifying whether this is parliamentary control or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u80	That's not a very clear question. [[Laughter]] But when I read the rules... Thanks for the respect. By reading the Rules of Procedure, I interpret that, during parliamentary review, this right of the Minister is fixed in the way in which he must respond. Otherwise, imagine what parliamentary control would look like if the minister answered and took the floor whenever he wanted, without reference to questions and questions?! Well, since I see a great desire in this Chamber to give the Minister the floor, is there any desire for the Minister to take the attitude? Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u81	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for putting on your masks. I see no masks are only doctors in this room. At the very beginning, when the Kovid epidemic began, we said this battle would be won by reason, intelligence and discipline. I am not convinced that any of the three guarantees of success in this battle are 100% respected. From this highest tribune, I would like to tell all Bulgarian citizens that we have absolutely no concerns about the plans or actions we take on a daily basis. Yeah, you're talking about a plan that's about behavior during the flu. This plan is on my desk, we discuss it daily and we see from this plan what can be borrowed and what can not. We're not talking about the flu here. In this case, we are talking about a new infection that is unknown to humanity, and for which in science there are over 40,000 publications that are diverse. At first, we talked about this as a respiratory virus, and we expected the behavior of this virus to be like this. It turned out that this surprised the entire scientific community throughout the world. Regarding the organization of the health system, I would like to inform you that there are currently enough beds in Bulgaria and sufficient necessary medical equipment for the treatment of all Bulgarian citizens in all areas and all medical facilities in the country. In medical facilities in the country where we are currently having difficulties, we have taken adequate action in terms of increasing hospital beds where necessary and moving doctors from one clinic to another. With regard to the insurance of the health system with medicines, some of which are medicines is Remdesservir, Bulgaria has absolute collateralisation at all medical establishments and reserves at national level, sufficient until the next receipt of these medicines. With regard to medical supplies such as suits, masks, coats, protective glasses, masks with a high degree of protection, one-off and multiple suits, the health care system is secured with those that are sufficient to satisfy the needs of all medical facilities within the country's territory within five to six months. At the moment on the website of the Ministry of Health an invitation was placed to all interested parties for delivery of additional personal protective equipment to meet the needs. So I cannot agree that the government and personally the Ministry of Health are not taking adequate and timely action. On the contrary, Bulgaria is located in one of the last places on morbidity in the European Union and in 7 8 places on mortality. These indicators, together with 23 indicators, which we monitor day and night with the Headquarters and with the Chief State Health Inspector Prof. Kunchev, clearly and accurately show that the epidemic in our country is controlled, the measures are timely and sufficient. The system is secured with medical personnel, equipment and supplies and medicines, with sufficient quantity for a sufficient long time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u82	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We're continuing with parliamentary control. The next question to the Minister of Health is the National Representative Georgi Gokov on the functioning of pension clubs in an emergency situation imposed by the CIVID-19 epidemic and for more than eight months. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u83	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Mr. Minister, it's probably unnecessary, but I'll start with him. Already at the beginning of the crisis with the coronavirus, March-April this year, Bulgarian municipalities reacted quickly and took serious measures jointly and coordinated with the other institutions to limit the infection. Besides the ban on mass events, the gathering of large groups of people indoors and so on, retired clubs in almost all municipalities were closed. Gradually after the end of May, the measures against the coronavirus began to be loosened and in some municipalities pension clubs were opened and in others remained closed for visits and activities. I was approached by pensioners from municipalities in different areas to express discontent with the fact that their clubs remain closed and the motive of the local authorities is that such are the instructions of the Ministry of Health to prevent a repeat peak of the disease. They are aware of the danger of the disease and that they are in the risk groups for a fatal end in a possible infection, but believe that the interruption of social contacts in the retirement age condemns them to loneliness and claims that loneliness is a scarier disease than the CIVID-19. And they have suspicions that, justifying the orders of the Ministry of Health, local authorities deliberately keep pension clubs closed to make savings. With the understanding that the functioning of pension clubs is within the competence of local authorities, please answer the following question: has the Ministry of Health developed specific guidelines and recommendations to municipalities for the functioning of pension clubs in the context of restrictive measures related to the Coronavirus epidemic and within what deadlines? I am aware because the question was asked about three or four weeks ago and the fact is that there is a change in the picture of the epidemic, but I believe that the issue remains current now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u84	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u85	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, from the beginning of the declared emergency epidemic situation orders have been issued to the Minister of Health, which have introduced temporary anti-epidemic measures on the territory of the country, which are common. Currently, there is no explicit ban on the functioning of sites, including pension clubs. In Item I.12 of the Order of the Minister of Health of 30 September, it is stated that the activities which are not suspended or prohibited by this Order shall be carried out subject to all anti-epidemic measures introduced by another of my orders of 30 September 2020. In the case of the operation of pension clubs, it is mandatory to take into account the following conditions: pre-usable conduct of open-air meetings before holding them indoors; non-crowding of the entrances and exits of the premises; providing access to liquid soap and water premises and/or viral hand sanctifiers allowed for use in the country; compliance with the requirement to wear a protective mask for a person in accordance with the provisions of the Minister of Health, and non-compliance of persons with clinical complaints about the COVID-19 or associated with it to the measure, including those with increased body temperature. Schools of dance, creative and musical art in retirement clubs can be organized and held in the workplaces up to 50% of their total capacity indoors and outdoors, subject to a physical distance of 1.5 m. Last but not least, according to the epidemiological situation, temporary anti-epidemic measures may also be introduced by order of the director of the regional health inspection concerned, agreed with the Chief State Inspector for the territory of the individual district, municipality or locality, acceptable and legally determined by the provisions of art. 63, para. 7 of the Health Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u86	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. That is, there will be no specific instructions, the general recommendations in the orders must be followed. Mr. Gokov, please come in for two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Mr. Chairman, I understand that there will be no instructions specifically on how to operate pension clubs. I think, despite everything, that your response was useful, I hope that the local authorities heard it or, if not, we will do our best through the pension clubs that are interested in their functioning, to get acquainted with the relevant local authorities with the answer to your question, and most importantly, there is no ban on the functioning of pension clubs. I thank you for your answer and will only continue a little further to say that the virus is a fact. Now there is no one to deny this thing and whether we will successfully fight it.. where more successfully, where more unsuccessfully, but we must learn to live with it, at least until we find another solution to the matter. Part of this learning and getting used to this virus is social life, which is extremely important for pensioners, because of them the Bulgarian pensioners seem to have nothing left but this social life, to get together in a club and to exchange whatever you want, thoughts, feelings and so on. That's why it's a very important question. I wish there were some general guidelines from the Ministry of Health. For example, each district and every city, each municipality, each locality is specific, depending on the extent to which the epidemic and the diseases there develop, but have something in common to show them. I thank you for mentioning the guidelines in the General Order. I hope, by keeping them in mind, that the municipalities also consider that this virus does not end life and we must continue to live. [[M Minister Kostadin Angelov's reply.]] Yeah, regional headquarters and RZI's. Thank you for your answer. I hope the people who listened to the answer are happy.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u88	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Minister, are you going to take the right to the back or not? No. The next question to you is from the MPs Georgi Mihailov, Georgi Gokov, Georgi Yordanov, Desislav Taskov, Ilian Timchev, Valentina Naydenova, Ivan Ibrishimov and Anna Slavova about how the activities and policies of the government in the field of health are structured regarding the emergency epidemic environment related to COVID-19. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u89	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! Our question relates to the observed dissonance between the restrictive measures adopted by the Minister of Health and taken during the spring peak of the pandemic with the COVID-19 and their reflection in the various spheres of public life. You know that there is a dissonance between these strict restrictive measures that have been taken, again I say at the spring peak of the epidemic, the achievements of this modern science, called Epidemiology, have not been respected, which has developed precisely quantitative levels and the measures and events to be taken in relation to them in a viral epidemic or pandemic. At much lower, at times, levels of spread of COVID-19 in the country in spring were taken extremely strict measures, while we are now seeing much softer, if I may say so. There is also dissonance in the reflections in different spheres, for example in hospitals, at some very low levels of morbidity and obesity to the hospital system, one or two cases of CIVID-19 blocked large hospitals, district hospitals and others. The access of patients with other diseases outside of CIVID-19 was practically violated in hospitals, resulting in damage to their general and specific condition. In the educational field there is already talk of educational deficit, as in the social sphere, in the economic sphere. It is obvious, and you rightly said that this is a new pandemic, which should in a specific way receive its reflection in society. Our specific question to you is: how are the government's activities and health policy structured in relation to the emergency epidemic situation related to COVID-19?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u90	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u91	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliamentary Group of the BSP for Bulgaria. On 30 January 2020, the World Health Organisation announced an international emergency for public health due to the rapid spread of the serious disease CIVID-19 causing death by a new, unknown coronavirus. The COVID-19 pandemic is a serious public health emergency at national and global level and poses an immediate danger to the lives and health of citizens. The disease puts the public health system in an emergency situation where it is extremely important to introduce measures in a timely manner to reduce the risk of spread with the possibility of adapting to new scientific data on the disease and its cause. Bulgaria as a full member of the European Union follows the common policy of intensive data exchange to achieve synchronization with regard to the criteria for assessing the situation, the measures introduced and their impact on the state of public health systems, internal security, economy, tourism and others. Through regular processing and analysis of national data on the epidemiological situation, the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control prepares risk assessments and technical guidelines that adapt to the latest scientific findings on the characteristics of the cause and the disease. In the form of integrated EU response arrangements in crisis situations involving representatives of the health ministries, external and internal affairs, sensitive issues on the national measures and successful practices in place and their impact on the European Union's common policy are discussed, which accelerates and facilitates the work of the other formats to the European Commission in order to achieve a single approach to overcoming and exiting the crisis. Council-approved at the end of June 2020. Recommendation No 2020/912 on the temporary limitation of non-essential travel in the European Union is a key aspect of the common approach. The exchange of information on measures taken by individual Member States, the epidemiological situation and risk assessment are important aspects in order to agree and synchronise Member States' actions towards the free movement of persons and goods. The most important and fundamental anti-epidemic measures contained in the technical guidelines of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control are in full sync with the recommendations of the World Health Organisation: physical distance, hand hygiene, disinfecting surfaces, protective masks and apply, taking into account the national specifics without exiting from the common European approach. This is fully true of the measures taken in the field of education, to which the Bulgarian society has a particular sensitivity. The detailed guidelines prepared for school education work include all aspects of anti-epidemic measures and their proper implementation by all participants in the process is essential for success. The correct implementation of measures by the whole of society is linked to the understanding of their scientific justification and necessity. The Ministry of Health will continue to introduce the public to all developments regarding COVID-19, to discuss openly the problem areas and to seek correct solutions in line with our reality. In conclusion, I would like to point out in relation to those registered in the last week and a significant increase in the number of new cases from the beginning of the pandemic, that it is possible, with the long-term increase of the infected regional medical headquarters, to take further organisational action in relation to the control of the epidemic on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u92	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Any further questions? Mr. Mihailov, you are entitled to two additional questions, then the Minister will answer and then you will have the right to be treated within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u93	Okay, thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Angelov, honourable colleagues! Certainly, the issue we are currently discussing in this House is of great public interest. This is the purpose of our inquiry, which you have already been informed about, that we will follow the rules of the Rules of Procedure and the activities of the National Assembly and make it a discussion next week. But my specific questions, before we enter into the attitude in a moment, are two. In the public domain, we are constantly witnessing the very sad to say the softest word as a professional, the fact that individual representatives of the professional medical community, who are really at the moment with the ministry's many efforts, with many efforts of the Medical Union, with many efforts of all services related to the prevention and treatment of patients with COVID-19, are dealing with the situation as far as they can, are placed in an unenviable position. And today I witnessed an extremely unpleasant scene. A 20-something-year-old girl, who's a resident, shares her humiliation, who has 10 shifts a month, that she doesn't get any compensation. I immediately heard your explanation afterwards, but with all your courage, which I have seen since you took over this post, I was surprised by one of your markers: if possible. There must be an opportunity, Minister! There must be the possibility that all people involved in fighting this problem can be effectively compensated. My second question, which also came up and which is being put, although you have given some explanations here, which I assume you will now deepen, is that the problem of the protection and the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian BSP, said with the funds of the hospitals will not be able to resolve these things, you need to direct funds from the budget of the state, because today the representative of the district hospital told the media officially, you can make a reference, there is a report in this respect, which was broadcast on national television that hospitals, because of having to buy protection from their own funds, have not translated the remuneration of their employees. All these problems, not to mention other anti-epidemic measures in which there are contradictions, you cannot as Minister of Health, as the old Bulgarians said, shine everywhere. But there are serious contradictions in them, and we will take account of this when the time comes in this questioning. I therefore ask you to answer these two questions so that we can really face our fellow Members from the country, in front of our patients in the country and reassure them that the Ministry of Health is at least making every effort so far, and our proposal you have already heard what will be in the debate that will happen next week. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u94	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. They were rather recommendations.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u95	No references, there were two questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u96	One wasn't a question. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u97	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Professor Mihaylov! It is difficult to understand concern when the concerned does not set an example of compliance with anti-epidemic measures and I will not stop from this tribune for them and that you must wear masks indoors.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u98	Get 'em fined!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u99	You talk about conflicting opinions in society, but in this room we do the same. Some of the doctors are wearing masks and some of the doctors are not wearing masks. Once again, health care has no color, no mandate. It belongs to all Bulgarians and I do not believe that we should use the Kovid epidemic for some type of search for gaps or lack of understanding that the building of the National Assembly is closed, that outside citizens have even barricaded outside citizens, enter constantly to file complaints and so on. Here in the hall, you see outsiders who are not MPs. A matter of understanding and purely professional as doctors is wearing a mask indoors, provided that you say there is no distance of three feet between you, but put on your mask and thus give an example of how to limit an epidemic. Purely professionally, I do not put anything political into my words as a doctor right now. In terms of the thousand leva you're talking about. I'm familiar with the case from his fetus. I said I'd do a check, said it was money on a European project. The Minister cannot change the European project so that he can solve the case you are talking about, but he can find 1000 leva. from the budget of the medical establishment to be paid to the colleague who has done this work so that justice can be done. That's what I'm gonna do and I said it yesterday. With regard to the availability of personal protective equipment. There is no medical establishment on the territory of the country that needed personal protective equipment that were requested in the local RZI and not to be served. We don't have that kind of data from the everyday conversations I make, especially with RZIs and medical facilities where they have special needs. Our weekly relationships are video conferencing that I do with the RZI directors. Please, if you have such a signal for a particular hospital where we have a lack or insufficient amount of personal protective equipment, give it to me. I'll check what you said in the media. I didn't get a chance to watch what was going on on TV this morning. We've spoken to the directors of RZI in both areas where we have increased morbidity and declared red code. So I will certainly do this check and I will answer you further.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u100	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Will any of the questioners express an attitude? Mr. Mikhailov, come in. You have two minutes for attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Angelov! At the beginning of my attitude, I will present to the Chairman what is protocol. [[gives a folder to the President]] , the desire to debate, which is formed under the Rules of Parliament. Starting with my attitude, I am finally forced with the best sense to answer for this masked mantra and I ask you to listen carefully because I have been involved for 40 years with transplantation, oncology, haematology and the treatment of severe infections. I want to tell you the following thing, which is a fact that has been scientifically proven. The particles that are exhaled from the breathing tube, which are 100 microns in size, Professor Angelov, stand in the air stream and fall to the ground within five seconds. More than 90% of the particles emitted from the respiratory tube are about one to three microns. They are carried 12 hours along the current in the air, that is, what many infectiousists said at the beginning of the pandemic that undoubtedly matter all hygiene measures to limit the infection, but also said that their favoritism in one direction or another, fanaticism in one direction or another will not help, as it is an air-drop infection. I'm not going to pretend to be a photographer here, but a little while ago I watched Mr. Simeonov and Mrs. Karayancheva talk without masks less than half a meter apart for more than two minutes. Now, if this turns him... I think it's not epidemicly dangerous. This infection, I've said it many times in front of students, and in studios, passes like a carpet on the ground, and I'm sure you know it. It is not stopped by such means, it is stopped by common events that are introduced in Bulgaria. But, again, the fanaticism and fascination of some of them was very well determined by the deceased, God forgive him, Milen Tsvetkov in a statement he made. If you want, you can find it and read it. Now regarding what you have shared, in your answers to us.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u102	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u103	I don't understand.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u104	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u105	Ten seconds, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u106	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u107	Thank you. I hope it's not exactly 10 like you crossed Zarkov yesterday. It's a huge subject. I have not relied on my colleagues from the Chamber, from the ruling coalition, since I have already witnessed, unfortunately, for all four years, that even in healthcare there is a confrontation and reasonable proposals do not happen, but I am counting on you as a minister, as a colleague, as a person I have known for more than 10 years and I have relied on as a doctor, colleague and professor of surgery, that this debate will actually be beneficial, that we will actually find a consensus here with the Ministry of Health, with the Council of Ministers, not with colleagues from the Chamber, unfortunately, so that we can be useful to our nation. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u108	Thank you, Dr. Mikhailov. Do you have any comments? Here you are, you have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u109	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mihailov, you are a hematologist, I am a surgeon, measures introduced by epidemiologists and we are all obliged to follow them. What hematologist Mihaylov thinks and what surgeon Professor Angelov thinks has absolutely no meaning for epidemiology in the world. Secondly, about the microns and masks we're talking about. The microns you're talking about are related to the size of the virus.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u110	With the particles.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u111	I don't know what particles you're talking about, but when a person talks about it, it releases much larger particles that the mask stops, which are loaded with a virus. And if what you're saying is so, that means we have to stop wearing masks in the O.R. and when you transplant bone marrow and so on. I absolutely do not agree with hematologists and surgeons giving rise to compliance or the change of anti-epidemic measures. And if we believe the Bulgarian epidemiologists or the world epidemiologists, we must strictly follow the measures as they are given. There's no way the whole world can say, "The measures are like this, and someone can say, "I doubt them, because I am, you see, extremely scientifically prepared." We're not scientifically prepared, Professor Mihailov, because this is a matter that we don't handle. You handle haematological matter, I handle surgical, epidemiology handle other matter. Thank you. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u112	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Regarding the previous question... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I hear voices from the auditorium. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I didn't hear anything. Do you have any references? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] In the manner of conduct, if you like? [[Replication by National Representative Georgi Mihailov.]] Procedure? Here you go. That's order, not yelling. [[GERB's line.]] Let's hear it. The tension is growing... [[Laughter at GERB.]] What do you need the procedure for, Mr. Mikhailov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u113	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u114	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u115	Dear Mr. Chairman! I believe that, both the Minister and every Member of the National Assembly, whether it is a tracologist, pulmologist, hematologist or surgeon, has the right to speak on issues that concern the entire nation and to answer with their competence for their speeches. I don't want to comment on what was commented by Professor Geidarski, our colleague, with the best words for Professor Mutafchiyski, but he is also a surgeon, he was chief of operations and until now he is chief of operations...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u116	I'm not a surgeon and I'm not Mutafchiyski. What do you have for me?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u117	I mean to you what I have already said, pay attention to everyone who speaks here that everyone has the right to give their opinion from this high tribune. It is an opinion really in health care, I agree with Professor Angelov, there are no opponents, there are different opinions, but that does not mean that opinions should not be said. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u118	I couldn't understand anything. What was the procedure in the manner of conduct, I couldn't understand anything? It was just one statement, another statement disguised as a procedure. Let's move on. In connection with the previous inquiry, by letter No 054-00-70 of 16 October 2020, submitted at 10,54 pm, a request was received for a debate on the question No 054-05-39 of 24 September 2020 and a draft decision on the inquiry by the MPs Georgi Mihailov, Georgi Gokov, Georgi Yordanov, Desislav Taskov, Ilian Timchev, Valentina Naydenova, Ivan Ibrishimov and Anna Slavova to the Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov on how the activities and policies of the government in the field of health are structured in relation to the emergency epidemic situation related to COVID-19? The proposal and the resolution project are signed by 54 MPs. The requirement of art. 105, para. 1 of the Members of Parliament, more than one-fifth of the Members of Parliament, to make a proposal to hold a debate on the questioning. On the basis of art. 105, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I schedule the debates on the questioning and voting of the draft decision for the next meeting designated for parliamentary control. We continue with the next question to the Minister of Health Mr. Kostadin Angelov. The question is from Georgi Mihailov about the decree of the Council of Ministers on the creation of a vending machine for medicines. Mr. Mihailov, come in, two minutes to state your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Angelov, honourable colleagues! It appeared quite, let's say, intensely in the public space a discussion about the accepted and almost lightning withdrawal of a decree of the Council of Ministers with regard to the possibility, without being soundly precise, of placing vending machines for the sale of medicinal products in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. From your personal interview on the National Television, I understand, I believe your words that the Ministry of Health was not leading in this decree, but it was co-ordinating. I will further develop my question shortly, as a new message has now appeared that it is expanding and the palette of medicines that can give vending machines. My question to you is: what is your attitude towards this decree, which was quickly abolished, and how do you see the big problem of drug policy and drug aid in Bulgaria, which weighs no longer four, but many years? In these four years nothing happened in the Bulgarian legislation, which should support this problem of drug policy and drug assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u120	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Mr. Minister, come in. You have three minutes to answer. The question is: what is the role of the Ministry of Health, he formulated it in a slightly different way, but this is the question of the vending machines in question, their placement, funding and so on?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u121	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mihailov, Ministry of Health is acquainted with the investment project "Virtual pharmaceutical center for contact with clients" and has expressed his opinion on it in the course of its interdepartmental examination, paying attention that the construction of such a system does not comply with the provisions in force of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, which regulate the requirements for the marketing of medicinal products. At present, the Law prohibits the sale of medicinal products through machines, except for medicinal products listed in Regulation No 28 of 2008 on the device, order and organisation of the operation of pharmacies and the nomenclature of medicinal products. These are only medicines that are granted without a prescription. The law clearly regulates the place where the retail of medicinal products is carried out, namely only in pharmacies and drugstores. The only exception is the settlements without a pharmacy in which to store and sell medicinal products have dentists and dentists after obtaining permission from the director of the regional health inspection concerned. Under current legislation, retail trade in medicinal products should be subject to the requirements of the Good Pharmaceutical Practice Rules, which are legally established. The rules state the professional independence of the pharmacist concerned and define the responsibility that he personally bears at the pharmacy when granting medicinal products or if he refuses to comply with a prescription. For example, at present there is an explicit requirement for the signature of the relaxing medicinal products Master Pharmacist in the execution of the prescription and the placement of a stamp containing all the attributes of the pharmacy. When examining the investment project, the Ministry of Health considered that there was no definition of the personal responsibility of the persons concerned, who would be involved in the process of granting medicinal products, giving advice, informing the patient of his condition and associated drug therapy, as well as the presence of medicines and other interactions, the possibility of adverse drug reactions, incidents and side effects, etc. In addition, the master pharmacist at the pharmacy is directly responsible for the storage of medicinal products according to regulatory requirements. These are commitments that are also specifically defined in the Good Pharmaceutical Practice Rules. It is clear from the above that the Ministry of Health, as a sectoral responsible institution, has carried out a thorough professional analysis of the relations that would arise in the implementation of such an investment project in terms of the health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u122	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have practically failed to support the issuance of such permits with your opinion. Mr. Mikhailov, come in. You're entitled to a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u123	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Angelov, honourable colleagues! I am not surprised at what you have written as the principal of the Ministry with the help of colleagues from the Department of Medicine and I hope that it meets the laws of the Republic of Bulgaria in the field of drug policy and you translate it into the Chamber quite adequately. However, I am surprised at the interactions in the Council of Ministers when the Minister of Health has stood with all its authority and shares that one action is absolutely wrong, the Council of Ministers should take such a decree, and then under public pressure it should be abolished. That surprises me, Mr. Secretary. And I hope that you, as a professional and as a man of your word, and in the future, will defend not only legality but also professionalism in such situations. I can give you an example. You're saying that I'm not a surgeon, you're not a hematologist, we're not both pharmacologists, but you know what can be obtained from an aspirin tablet?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u124	I know.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u125	So all this construction in a country in which in more than 10,000 places the President of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union said there are no pharmacies to try this kind of business is unprofessional, illegal, and even immoral. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u126	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. We move on to the next two questions, which are united with a common answer. These are the questions of the National Representative Emil Tonchev on free vaccines against influenza for pensioners over 65 years, and of the National Representative Georgi Gokov on the lack of flu vaccines. Here you go, Mr. Tonchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u127	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Allow me first on the occasion of International Day of Anesthesiology to congratulate all colleagues in the wards of anesthesiology, resuscitation and intensive treatment, who with all their professionalism, with all their heart and soul serve health on the first line. Happy Thanksgiving, fellow Members! [[Applause.]] I'm moving on to the presentation of my question. The National Programme for the Improvement of Vaccine Prevention of Seasonal Flu 2019 2019, adopted by Decision No 6 of the Council of Ministers of 10 January 2019, aims to reduce the incidence, complications and mortality of seasonal influenza by increasing the immunization range of people of and over 65 years of age. This programme provides free vaccines for pensioners aged 65 and over. According to statistics in our country, there are a total of about a million and a half. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 350000. The first year of the start of the program, about 10% or 148 thousand people were vaccinated. This figure will be increased annually to reach in 2022. 25% of them. According to statistics over the past ten years, the fatal, adverse outcomes, the mortality of...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u128	Mr. Tonchev, concentrate on the questions, because your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u129	The death rate of pneumonia is highest in individuals over 60 years of age. Given the possibility of the inevitable mixing of seasonal flu with the Kovid pandemic, my question to you, Mr. Minister, is as follows: is financial resources also provided for 2020 to provide for all those who want to have more than 65 years of age with the necessary anti-rhip vaccine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u130	Thank you, Mr. Tonchev. Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u131	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Maybe I should have started because my question is a little more general, but it's the same subject anyway. I'll start with the show. According to health professionals, the annual flu epidemics are expected and normal because each year the influenza virus attacks in the form of different strains, mutates and is highly contagious. These same specialists claim that seasonal flu is, after all, a disease that can be avoided by an appropriate vaccine, and annual immunisation is the most effective means of doing so. Virologists and epidemiologists are adamant that the best protection from the flu is the vaccine. Of course, with all the conventions on the administration of these vaccines, because unlike the other vaccines that create immunity to more than 90% of those vaccinated, influenza guarantees protection at only 30 to 60 percent of those vaccinated, depending on the coincidence between the strains in the vaccine itself and the most common for the season. The influenza vaccination is recommended in Bulgaria and therefore a small group of the population is covered. Despite the recommended nature of these vaccines, an increasing number of Bulgarians are interested in them, especially among the high-risk groups for developing complications, those with limited respiratory functions, elderly people in retirement age, children and so on. If we look at the whole situation in the context of the coronavirus epidemic, the importance of pa immunization and its effect for less flu-infected people becomes even more important. Although flu vaccines are only against seasonal flu and do not protect from the coronavirus, there has never been such an increased interest in the vaccine before. Even world manufacturers of flu vaccines predicted that because of the alleged increased interest there would be oversearch and are ready for overproduction. On this background in Bulgaria there are no flu vaccines. And the people who are interested in them can't get enough. The question to you is: is there a shortage of current flu vaccines in our country? How did the Ministry of Health react to this shortage? Will free flu vaccines be provided for high-risk groups to develop complications, including pensioners, as was the question of the colleague? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u132	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u133	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Tonchev, Dear Mr. Gokov, Immunization against seasonal flu is recommended under Regulation No 15 of 2005 on immunizations in the Republic of Bulgaria and is applied at the request of the citizens against payment. It is recommended for individuals over 65 years, with chronic pulmonary, cardiovascular, metabolic and other diseases, individuals in organized collectives, especially those from specialized institutions for the provision of social services, persons with increased risk of infection in relation to their profession and others. In Bulgaria, the vaccination range with influenza vaccines is traditionally low, with only 2.4 per 100 people in the country for the period 2013 - 2017. These calculations are made on the basis of sales made and not on actual doses that are probably less. The main reason for this is that influenza vaccines are included in the list of recommended immunizations, bought by the patient and applied for payment, which is often impossible for individuals over 65 years of age. In order to overcome this situation and to protect the most risky part of the population by Decision No 6 of 10 January 2019 of the Council of Ministers was adopted National Programme for the Improvement of Vaccine Prevention of Seasonal Flu 2019 The aim of the Programme is for the 4-year period of action to increase the immunization range of the target group from 10% in 2019 to 25% in 2022. Vaccines are provided by the National Health Insurance Fund through an annual auction and are applied by general practitioners. They are obtained after a request from general practitioners and are applied in their offices, which reduces the risk of adverse reactions due to non-compliance with the freezer chain. Easy and quick access to immunisation is provided by the free placement by general practitioners of influenza vaccines to the target group. The funds from the state budget by transfer from the Ministry of Health to the National Health Insurance Fund are paid only the administered doses of influenza vaccines which comply with the instructions of the National Health Insurance Fund on the order of prescription, allocation, reporting and payment of vaccines. Immunizations shall be carried out from 1 October to 31 December of each year of the action of the Programme. Thus, by providing public funds and applying seasonal flu vaccine to individuals in the target group under the Programme, the barrier to achieving a higher immunisation range is overcome and their right to a longer life in health takes place. According to the National Health Insurance Fund data, during the period 1 October 31 December 2019, 113 835 immunizations of subjects under the National Programme were reported by the general practitioners. The target group reached an immunization range of 7,68% under 10% and represented an increase in the range by more than 5% compared to previous years. For the implementation of the activities for 2020, the National Health Insurance Fund has taken the necessary action and has concluded a contract for the delivery of 180 000 doses of influenza vaccine. Vaccines have already been imported and are due to be delivered to general practitioners as described in the instructions of the NHIF for the order of prescription, granting, reporting and payment of vaccines. In addition, outside the provision of vaccines for the implementation of the activities under the National Programme at the beginning of September, vaccines against seasonal influenza were delivered to the pharmacies network, which were actually quickly exhausted. Due to the increased interest, in addition to those 180 000 doses, quantities were imported for distribution via the pharmacies network to carry out recommended immunisation in persons outside the target group of the Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u134	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Tonchev, do you have a reply? You don't. Thank you. Mr. Gokov, don't you have a line? Here you go. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Mr. Chairman, it is not as much a disagreement with the answer as it is an attitude. Mr. Minister, it's important. You answered well. It must have sounded very administrative to me. I'm gonna go through the transcript to see what you've answered, but I don't know if there's any vaccines now, do I? I understand they've been brought into the country, but when people look for pharmacies, they're gone, including for payment. Not to mention me and the colleague we're asking if they're provided for free vaccines. Now, in the National Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria for readiness for influenza pandemic, we return to it again. The influenza vaccine has been identified as a major means of prevention of influenza both between the pandemic periods and during the pandemic, which has been proven in numerous epidemiological studies conducted around the world in various epidemiological situations. Today, in the conditions of whatever you want to call it, a pandemic, an epidemic of the coronavirus, and in the reports that there are both coronavirus and flu patients at the same time, it is extremely relevant whether there are vaccines in our pharmacies, have we provided to risk groups that cannot afford vaccines? Against the backdrop of anti-vaccination protests, when people are willing to be vaccinated and we stop them with no vaccines, is simply, how can I tell you, unacceptable. Of course, I have two minutes and I won't be able to do everything I want to tell you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u136	Fifteen seconds left.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u137	It is strange to me that Bulgaria does not try to produce a vaccine. I know there are no conditions right now, but we have to think this way. The recommended Ordinance No 15 of the Ministry of Health of May 2005 for immunizations in Bulgaria are several groups, including persons over 65 years with chronic diseases and so on. With 2 million 100,000 pensioners, 800,000 of them on a minimum pension, and a million and 500 with a pension below the poverty line, we can now expect these people to buy a vaccine, and they're in a risky group... You have to think in that direction.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u138	Get it over with, Mr. Gokov!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u139	I'm done. These people must be given vaccines because they cannot otherwise be supplied with them. Thank you. My question, by the way, is extremely serious and will certainly be in the subject of the debate on asking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u140	Mr. Secretary, come in. You have the right to the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u141	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, all that you have said is true. What I can tell you is this: 113 835 immunizations of subjects under the National Program were made in Bulgaria last 2019. So these are the people who wanted to be vaccinated. In view of the adopted National Program, a higher percentage of the target group's people is set. This programme provides for 60 000 vaccines more for 2020 compared to 2019, namely 120 000 to 180 000 in 2020. Accordingly, these vaccines were declared by the Bulgarian government. An organization has been established. They must be produced by the company, declared the previous year and our quota reserved. In parallel with these 180 000 vaccines on the Bulgarian market were released 160 000 vaccines, which were imported and released on the pharmacies network. So it's 340,000. In addition, as far as I know, more vaccines will be imported if they remain from the allocation quotas of other countries. At the moment, since March, you have known about the pandemic that has spread throughout the world, the demand for flu vaccines has become extremely high and the industry cannot satisfy the needs of any country. The requested quantities Bulgaria made in 2019 with an increase of 60,000 according to the National Programme, compared to last year and this year, are a fact. They are currently distributed to all general practitioners and will begin to place themselves on those who need it. Again, you are talking about all Bulgarian pensioners, only in the group of Bulgarian pensioners we should not forget the children with chronic pulmonary, cardiovascular, metabolic and oncological diseases that are becoming much more. That is to say, we are talking about the readiness of the Bulgarian population to vaccinate itself with flu vaccine. The percentage that we have bet in this programme from 10% in 2019 is to reach 25% of this group by 2022, i.e. to increase things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u142	Thank you. The next question is the MP Georgi Mihailov on the future budget of the National Health Insurance Fund.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Professor Angelov, it is normal that the parliamentary group of BSP, and every parliamentarians, should be excited about the new budget for 2021 on the eve of its discussion in parliament. My question to you will be very brief in this intensive control that has already been running for over an hour. Various statements have come out of both the NHIF governor and other politicians about the formation of the budget in health care, and in particular the NHIF, which consumes, you know, more than 80% of the public health funds budget. What is your vision as the principal of the Ministry for the formation of the budget 2021,...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u144	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Mr. Angelov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u145	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mihailov, the preparation of the NHIF Budget Act for 2021 is under way in accordance with the RMS No 64 of 2020 on the budgetary procedure and subject to the instructions of the Ministry of Finance for the preparation and provision of the draft budgets to the senior authorising officers with the budget for 2021. The financial parameters of the NHIF draft budget for 2021 shall be developed on the basis of the above-mentioned guidelines of the main macroeconomic indicators and the NRA's forecast for sound insurance contributions, an updated estimate of the amounts of transfers for health insurance of persons who, in accordance with the Health Insurance Act, are provided for at the expense of the State budget. In accordance with art. 19th para. 7 of the Health Insurance Act, the manager of the NHIF prepares a draft Law on the Annual Budget of the NHIF and sends it for an opinion by the Minister of Health and then submits the draft Law on the Annual Budget of the NHIF together with the opinion of the Minister of Health for consideration and approval by the Supervisory Board. The Managing Director of the NHIF shall submit the draft Law on the annual budget of the NHIF through the Minister of Health of the Council of Ministers. These are part of the stages of the budgetary procedure and, as you know, after approval by the Council of Ministers, the draft Act on the annual budget of the NHIF for 2021 will be submitted to the National Assembly, where you will be able to debate the bill, including its financial part. At present, I could not comment on specific financial parameters of the future budget of the NHIF for 2021, as the project has not been submitted to the Ministry of Health for expressing an opinion by the Minister of Health. The review and approval of the draft by the Supervisory Board of the NHIF is pending.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u146	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Mikhailov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Professor Angelov, over the years I have been familiar with the procedure that you have so legally read and its successive stages. That wasn't the point of my question. You very briefly said in the end that you are not familiar yet and was not submitted to your ministry. I am sure, however, that your opinion has been addressed, as well as the team with which you work, because your Deputy Minister is practically the Chair of the Casa Supervisory Board. I also have some considerations that I will set out at the time when the budget will be discussed. I would like here once again in front of the entire Chamber, and before you, as a new minister, to express my regret for the extremely short-term mechanisms under which the roller of the majority is imposed in Parliament. This is unproductive, especially for healthcare, because there is a palette of costs of NHIF. It's huge. You know very well how big the budget of the NHIF is, with all kinds of options being discussed, and only in practice in two meetings... one in a quick hand in the Financial Commission, it is not remembered to us.................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u148	Okay, but what does the minister have to do with this, Mr. Mihailov? These are matters related to Parliament's work.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u149	It is that it can finally launch a procedure to change this vicious shaping mechanism and especially to adopt the budget. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u150	Thank you. Are you going to use a hole? It doesn't make sense. Thank you. After the speech of the People's Representative, who is not demonstrably wearing a mask, mandatory cleaning, and very carefully and precisely cleaning the stands and microphones, if you please. The next question is from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova on the policy of the Ministry of Health for the notification of health insured persons upon termination of the contractual relationship between NHIF and primary medical care facility. Welcome to your question, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u151	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Members of the National Assembly! In accordance with art. 35, para. 1, t. 2 of the Health Insurance Act the insured have the right to choose a doctor from a primary medical care facility which has concluded a contract with the RHIF. However, it is not rare that the contractual relationship between the RHIF and the primary medical care facility has been terminated and the health insured persons find out about this too late or disagree with the professional distribution by the RHIF to a general practitioner. Dear Minister, what is the policy of the Ministry of Health related to the timely notification of the health insured persons of termination of the contract relations of the RHIF with a primary medical care facility?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u153	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Naydenova, by virtue of art. 35, para. 1, t. 2 and 4 of the Health Insurance Act among the rights of the mandatory health insurance person are regulated equally his right to choose a doctor from a primary medical care facility that has concluded a contract with the NHIF and his right to receive information from the RHIF about the contracts concluded by him with the medical care contractors. To this end, according to art. 64, para. 2 of the Health Insurance Act each person is entitled, upon request, to obtain access from the relevant RHIF to the necessary information about the medical aid contractors who have concluded a contract with the RHIF in the region concerned. The information is public and is maintained, distributed and provided in order laid down in the Rules of Procedure and the activities of the NHIF. Under the Ordinance on the exercise of the right of access to medical care, health insured persons are free to choose a doctor in a primary hospital for outpatient medical care throughout the country, which has concluded a contract with the NHIF. The choice of a doctor is personal and in this sense NHIF or RHIF, or other third parties may not intervene and influence this choice of a general practitioner, but NHIF and RHIF may provide the necessary information to the health insured person if necessary. In the performance of art. 5, para. 2 of the NHIF Ordinance maintains on its official website information which is kept up-to-date for primary outpatient medical care establishments that have concluded a contract with it, specifying the deadline for its implementation. The NHIF's information system also allows a reference to the person's chosen general practitioner and his up-to-date status in relation to his participation in the compulsory health insurance system, also provides information if the health insurance person has not chosen a general practitioner and for the existence of a terminated contract with the person chosen by the health insurance general practitioner. This information shall be updated on a daily basis. In some cases when the NHIF contract is terminated, the general practitioners themselves shall notify the health-insured person on their patient list of this circumstance and shall refer them to their fellow doctors for a choice. In other cases where the contract of the contractor of the PIMP has been terminated due to the death of the doctor or for another reason, the NHIF and the RHIF shall cooperate fully with health-insured persons in the selection of a new general practitioner. By virtue of art. 55, para. 2 of the Health Insurance Act, national framework contracts contain arrangements for basic health insurance issues. In this regard, in the special part of the currently in force National Framework Treaty 2020, Chapter seventeenth, Section III, Terms and procedures for providing outpatient medical care and the choice of a general practitioner are described in detail the possibilities of the insured persons to choose and change the chosen general practitioner. Dear Dr. Naydenova, clearly from the above, are available and legally and legally provided mechanisms are implemented, which provide timely information to health insured persons in the event of termination of a contractual relationship between the NHIF and the primary medical care facility with a view to organising free and equal access to quality medical care, as well as free choice of contractor who concluded a contract with the NHIF.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u154	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. So there's no notification, especially the pensioners who don't have the Internet, they're on fire. Mrs. Naydenova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u155	Yes, Mr. President, you are right in small towns, especially where medical practices are located elsewhere, not to mention that for very serious reasons, death and so on, the doctor may not be able to perform his duties. With such a case I personally collided and then it was necessary for the entire army of mayors, RZI, colleagues to be able to distribute their patients. It is true, in the Regulation on access to medical care, as well as the regulations that you quoted, the leading role is the health insurance person. I apologize, but my vision is a little different than what the status quo is right now. You cited the obligations of the RHIF, respectively to the NHIF, but I think that the leading person in this case should not be the health-insured person. On the contrary, it is the Cassate that must find the way in which to inform the health-insured person of changes and termination of the contract so that it can actually make its choice. There is no question that the choice is personal, but the question is information. Especially in today's times, the crisis shows that elderly people need to limit their contacts to too late the information reaches them, there is no Internet everywhere. That shouldn't be an excuse. On the contrary, both flexible in their policies are those who are involved in health insurance, which is true that insurance is on another principle, and the Cashier, in my opinion, must be flexible, even though its role is in compulsory health insurance, it must provide information to the payer and the payer is the insured person. I am not saying that the courtship should be courted, on the contrary, here a great responsibility which the Cassata must assume despite its limited resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. You're talking about a text message, as far as I'm concerned. Mr. Minister, will you take a stand? Here you go for the douche bag for two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u157	Thank you very much for your further question. All these concerns of yours will be passed on to the governor of the NHIF and to the representatives of the state in the Supervisory Board of the NHIF to take the necessary measures and meet the needs of the Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u158	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The last MP asking you is Krastina Taskova on the policy of the Ministry of Health in the fight against high child mortality. You are welcome to present your question, Ms. Takova. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! At the beginning of parliamentary control today on asking, I raised the topic of Bulgaria's policy regarding the high child mortality to Ms. Nikolova in relation to the allocation of the coordination function according to art. 108, para. 2 sentence 2 of the Constitution, namely to be responsible for the activities of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy and the Minister of Health. For this reason, I put to it perhaps a slightly wider range of questions with my desire to acquaint the Bulgarian society with the specific measures, but, unfortunately, I have received rather an administrative general policy response, but not a specific one on the issues I have asked. That's why I'm going to ask you, and I've asked, closely specialized ones, and I'm hoping for specific answers. I suppose you are familiar with this leading position that Bulgaria has taken again, for another year on the highest child mortality rate in the European Union, and the fact that the risk for every child born in our country to die even before it is five years old is 70% higher than the average for the European Union. In this regard, no more statistics, specifically on the issues: what measures are being taken by the Ministry of Health in support of ensuring affordable healthcare and affordable medicines for children? When will there be really free child health? What measures are being taken to prevent child health? The fact is that we are a country where younger and younger children have diabetes, high blood pressure, obesity. What measures are being taken to support the health of women and mothers? Does the Ministry of Health have information about the causes of this high rate of child mortality in our country? Accordingly, if you have done such an analysis, what specific measures do you intend to take on it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u160	Mrs. Taskova, here you have four quite diverse questions, united in one question. I do not know how the Minister will enter in time. It's not one question, it's four questions, because the questions are different. I don't know how they're allowed in. [[Reply from the National Representative Krastina Taskova away from the microphones.]] Mr. Angelov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u161	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Ms. Taskova, the National Health Strategy 2020 includes specific policies and measures for improving the indicators for maternal and child health, and three of the national health objectives defined in the Strategy are related to reducing mortality in children in individual age groups. Measures related to improving the quality of care in children's and mothers' health are also laid down in the Management Programme of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2017 - 2021 and in a number of cross-sector strategic documents that are reported annually. In accordance with art. 40, para. 3, p. 1 of the Health Insurance Act all children under the age of 18 and after the age of this age, if they study regularly, are health insurance at the expense of the state budget. This ensures their ability to use health services within the scope of compulsory health insurance. Regulation No 9 of 2019 laying down the package of health activities guaranteed by the NHIF budget regulates the types of activities in outpatient and hospital medical care, thereby ensuring timely access to quality medical care for all children. The significant volume of health information, promotional and preventive activities included, including secondary prevention of diseases through dispensary surveillance, is an expression of the policy pursued by the Ministry of Health to promote health and disease prevention as particularly important elements of children's and public health. The National Framework Treaty on Medical Activities for 2019 increased the prices of clinical pathways for hospital treatment of children, ensuring the higher quality of service to small patients. For children with severe diseases, when treatment cannot be carried out in a timely manner in the country or the necessary diagnostic and treatment procedures cannot be carried out in Bulgaria, NHIF is authorised for planning treatment abroad. With art. 45 of the Health Insurance Act guarantees the possibility of prescribing and granting authorisation for the use of medicinal products intended for home treatment in the territory of the country, as well as a number of medical activities, medicinal products, dietary foods for special medical purposes, medical devices and highly specialised devices, appliances for individual use, which are outside the scope of the Health Insurance Act. In accordance with art. 82, para. 1a of the Health Act persons up to the age of 18 are entitled to medical care outside the scope of the Health Insurance Act. Treatment for cancer and oncochemologic diseases started prior to the age of 18 years continues to be paid after the age of this age until the end of treatment. Prevention is a top priority for children's health. It is included in the activities carried out in outpatient medical care within the health activities package, guaranteed by the NHIF budget. For all children preventive examinations are provided to monitor the development of the child and provide the opportunity to be diagnosed, abnormalities and/or diseases in a timely manner. The preventive examinations shall be carried out by general practitioners and shall be financed under the NHIF's Children's Health Programme. For all children in the country are provided free, highly effective and safe vaccines for mandatory immunizations, reimmunizations determined with the National Immunolysis Calendar. In order to improve prevention in children under different national programmes, the regulatory possibilities for promotion of health, prevention of diseases in children and early diagnosis are strengthened. In implementation of the National Programme for the Improvement of Parental and Child Health 2014-2020 31 health advisory centers were revealed, providing specialized medical advice, outside the scope of health insurance for children with disabilities with chronic diseases, mothers and pregnant women with increased medical risk. Medical equipment for intensive special care for newborns and premature diagnostics was provided through a project of the Ministry of Health under the Bulgarian Health Programme 07. With the equipment are modernized departments of obstetrics and gynecology and neonatology in 33 hospital care facilities. The same programme also provides funds for the implementation of three projects for providing mobile health services to pregnant women and children up to three years with a focus on risk groups with a focus on the Roma population. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Mr. Chairman, 30 more seconds. In order to reduce the incidence of early childhood acute gastroenteritis, measures were taken to immunize children to six weeks of age, including premature children after 2 months of age, and vaccines are provided free of charge. This is implemented through the National Program for Treatment and Control of Rotavirus Gastroenterites 2017 - 2021. The National Programme for primary prevention of cervical cancer 2017 - 2020 provides immunization protection for girls of the main target groups 12 and 13 years. The National Programme for the Prevention of Chronic Infectious Diseases provides activities for children and adolescents on promotion of health and prevention of diseases aimed at limiting risk factors related to lifestyle smoking, unhealthy eating, low physical activity, alcohol use. In order to improve oral health of children, the Ministry of Health financed two national programs for prevention of oral diseases in children from zero to 18 years of age. The programmes ensure that the first permanent molars of children from five to eight years are placed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u162	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Ms. Takova, if you ask two more questions to each of these questions, there will be eight additional questions. Ask yourself two additional questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u163	I have prepared two other questions, but since Mr. President is obviously worried, I would rather ask the Minister to answer the last question from my question, as he was unable to get to it due to a time limit. Does the Ministry of Health have information about the causes of this high rate of child mortality in our country? What do I mean? What percentage or number of deceased children is due to malnutrition, congenital diseases, premature birth, hereditary diseases? Do we have that analysis? I ask this question, Mr. Minister, because every decision of the government is a given policy. In front of me is the National Health Strategy that you talked about and I had in principle prepared questions about it, but I think it is important to clarify today: do we have such an analysis so that based on it you can take any decision, any measure to deal with the particular problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u164	Thank you, Mrs. Taskova. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u165	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Ms. Taskova, as a result of the measures taken in recent years, there has been a long-standing and lasting tendency to reduce the infant mortality rate. In 2019, the infant mortality rate reached 5.6 per 1,000 live birth children at 13,3 per 1000 in 2000, 7.4 per 1000 in 2014, and 5,8 in 2018. The reduction of the infant mortality rate to 6,8 per 1,000 live birth children is one of the national health objectives set out in the National Health Strategy 2020. This goal was achieved in 2016 as early as in 2016. Although child mortality in Bulgaria is still higher than in the European Union, it should be noted that the trend towards a decrease in European level is characterised by a very slow pace. A positive trend is also observed with regard to the mortality indicator, which in 2019 decreased compared to the previous year and reached 6.1 to 1000 live births at a mean of 4.7 for the European Union. As regards maternal mortality, there was also a positive trend from 7.3 to 100 000 live births in 2014 to 6.4 in 2018, and zero in 2019 when there were no deceased birth mothers. Insofar as infant mortality is the most dependent statistical indicator on the quality of health services provided to mothers and children, its reduction should be considered as objective evidence of a positive result of policy implementation and of active measures taken to improve child and mother health. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would like to conclude with you that the Ministry of Health will also work actively in the future to ensure sustainability of the results achieved and to improve the health performance of children. And specifically to your question. We are currently working on a very large analysis at the Ministry of Health, which analyzes the entire line of a person's life from the beginning of the fertilization of the egg to the death of the human being, and through this line of life we are analyzing all the necessary additional health events that need to be included in order to improve the basic demographic indicators of the nation. This is also the indicator of the child's mortality rate that you are talking about. Thank you for your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u166	Thank you. Mrs. Taskova, for your response, or don't you have one? You're happy. Thank you, too. We're done talking to the Minister of Health. Let's wish him a successful job and less infected, Mr. Angelov, for God's sake. The next questions are to the Minister of Environment and Water Mr. Emil Dimitrov Simeonov. The first question is from the MP Lyubomir Bonev on the quality of the air in Pernik and measures to improve it. Here you are, Mr. Bonev, to present your question. You have exactly two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, since the beginning of 2020, there has been several reports of increases in average and daily standards of both fine dust, sulphur dioxide, an average hourly norm of nitric oxide and others in the air of the town of Pernik. For more than a month in different areas of the town of Pernik is smelling a suffocating smell, mostly in the neighborhoods of the Church, the East, Mosino, which the Perniks are worried about. Despite the hundreds of complaints in RIEW Sofia, no measures have been taken to stop this. The checks to be carried out are more of a proformity because they are usually carried out days after they are detected and the signals are submitted. This constant air pollution predisposes a number of respiratory diseases and aggravation of the symptoms of others in the inhabitants of both the city and the municipality. Therefore, measures need to be taken to improve air quality so that our children do not breathe this mixture of dangerous substances. Dear Minister, my question to you is: what specific measures will the Ministry of Environment and Water take to improve the quality of the air and stop pollution from industrial enterprises in Pernik Municipality and Pernik City? Will there be a penalty for Perniks still breathing the dirty air? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u168	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u169	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bonev, in answer to your questions, I will inform you the following: For the control of the quality of the air in the town of Pernik there are two monitoring points, which are part of the National Air Quality Control System, the automatic air management station These points control pollutants, defined as those in European and national legislation, which, when building the monitoring system, are estimated to be characteristic of this municipality................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Since the beginning of 2020, measurements with a modern automatic station on a schedule established by the Minister of Environment and Water have been carried out in the district of Mosino. In addition, the Regional Environmental and Water Inspectorate is requested to monitor with separate stations in the districts of Teva. Of all pollutants that are measured in the city, excesses are recorded in mid-hour and mid-day standards according to sulphur dioxide and particulate matter indicators. Currently registered excesses are within the number permitted by law for the calendar year. In the Regional Inspection there are numerous signals from residents of the city, but they are for smells, according to the definitions of the signalers of pherodo, burnt cables, tires, bakelite and so on. From the beginning of 2020 until now, immediate checks have been carried out in relation to the received signals and in certain cases the checks are joint with other institutions: municipal officials, employees of the Ministry of Interior. In a significant number of cases no unpleasant smell has been detected and no sources of odor have been identified. As a possible source of smells in the area of the district of Church, the signalers point to a company located right next to the neighborhood. This company has been subject to numerous checks both in relation to the signals received and to the fulfilment of the condition of the complex permit of 2010 issued to the operator of the installation. For non-compliance with the conditions of the complex permit, the admission of disorganised emissions, the carrying out of activities in a way that allows unpleasant smells outside the site, administrative criminal action has been taken by the control authority. Two penal decrees have been issued, one of which has been confirmed by the District Court of Pernik, and according to the other the judicial procedure continues. Administrative criminal measures have been taken to detect unorganised emissions in the atmospheric air and other businesses in the city. In this regard, an act of administrative infringement has been drawn up by the control authority. A criminal order is pending. RIEW Sofia continues to control the industrial sources of emissions in the town of Pernik and appropriate administrative and criminal measures will be taken if found. For the purpose of the Regional Inspection was established an organization for carrying out joint checks for representativeness, transparency with representatives of town halls, church, Municipality of Pernik, RZI Pernik and OD of the Ministry of Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u170	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. - What's the line? Mr. Bonev, come in. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, this is the third question on the same subject asked about air quality in Pernik, which breathes our children, who breathe all the Perniks. From your answer we understand that hardly the only polluter is the "Stomanana" without taking into account the fact that there is another large construction company on Pernik's territory. You didn't say a word about it, on the one hand, Mr. Minister, I pay attention to you that these two stations, in my opinion, are completely insufficient. It is because of the lack of stations, precisely because of the lack of preventive control, that is always followed by events. We've heard there's been a criminal decree imposed. This does not correspond in any way to increasing air quality in the town of Pernik. Minister, it is very important to take all sorts of preventive measures to increase the number, if you will, of stations that report the air, because we understand that for 2020, just a few days ago, the other station on the side of the Ministry of Environment and Water was placed, not a few years ago. The station, which was in the central city area, was located almost in the park, for maybe a year and something is located at a more nocturnal intersection in the city. Minister, it is necessary, in any way, that the structures entrusted to you, as part of the Ministry of Environment and Water, enter into their functions in order to carry out both preventive and subsequent controls on all pollutants, and not to constantly ask questions that remain unanswered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u172	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u173	Dear Mr. Bonev, no one has stopped Pernik Municipality from buying one, two, three, four, five, six stations, whatever it wants, will help methodologically so that it can measure. Do not think that always the state must everywhere as many stations as it gives you immediately and immediately. Each station is half a million. You could turn to the factories, to the big, big businesses, and they could also participate, and you could buy. Many cities have done so. We've given enough stations. I can't take it from another city to give it to you. If tomorrow I wish to send your station somewhere else, you will say: "Stacks we do."..................................................................................................I request To your question. Shouldn't we pre-electionally shut down all the factories? To tell you the truth, our Ministry's plan for a new nationalization is not foreseen. We also do not foresee liquidation of investors. The economy must work as it has worked in recent years, because they generate the gross domestic product and our In choosing the topic "water" in Pernik is no longer applicable, as additional water supply is made, your dam is full and we even give it to Radomir. I've also given permission to give the steel because people have to work, to receive salaries, and also to the thermal power plant because they can't stay without steam and hot water winter. Because it's very good to stop the plant, stop the power plant, and let the people out on the street. Because it's very good for the election. Only because of the election, we can't liquidate the economy. We can't afford to do anything outside the law, because that would be administrative arbitrariness. Just before the elections, factories working 30, 40, 50, 60 years, closing them down, I think it's wrong, just because of political conjuncture. However, when we find legal violations, we have stopped them. In Pernik and the TPP we have stopped several times, and at the Stomanana we have imposed restrictions and acts, and the lavaguards we have closed both across the country, and in Bobov dol, you know, and mines we have stopped, and Lucky. 1, 2, and so on, but when we have legal basis. When we find legal violations, we'll sanction them. Everything else is harmful and arbitrariness. Of course, when you take power, you can stop absolutely everything.. Your right will be, your opportunity. For every wrongful stop, however, we are going to court. We're being sued. We have 33 million acts against us for an emotional shutdown of one TPP. The state will pay for the emotional decision. We must always stick to the law and keep it intact. And Pernik could buy another station, but you're playing tricks with Ruse. However, there is a European programme that will give them two more. Pernik by applying, by winning a yes. But Pernik can buy one.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u174	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u175	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u176	However, if it's not in the way of conduct, I'll turn off your microphone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is entirely in the manner of conduct and I address you entirely, Mr. Chairman. Because we have just made suggestions that in no way correspond to the truth, the Ministry of Environment and Water is responsible for respecting the quality of air in our country, respectively during regional inspections for the environment and water. That Mr. Dimitrov...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u178	What was I supposed to do?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u179	You should have interrupted Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u180	I had to stop, but I'm not a penkeller to be a specialist on all matters.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u181	Because he makes suggestions that don't correspond to the truth.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u182	Okay. Thank you. [[Replys aside from the microphones.]] The next question to Mr. Emil Dimitrov, Minister of Environment and Water, is from the National Representative Kalin Vassilev on a pesticide warehouse in the village of Karlukovo, Lukovit municipality. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u183	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! My question is about a pesticide warehouse in the village of Karlukovo, Lukovit municipality. The geopark is the first geopark in Bulgaria, which includes Karlukovski Karstov complex and landscape park Panega, has an eco-trail built, the cave is there, visited by many people on weekends. The warehouse in the village of Karlukovo was built in 2001. Even then it was promised that it would be there no more than two years. The year-old warehouse was opened in 2019 in the implementation of a project of the POSOS..Ecosual disposal of obsolete pesticides and other plant protection products with an expired expiry date.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The site in Karlukovo was handed over to the contractor of the public procurement.. Consortium "INDECOSEF" with participants.Eko Safes Ltd.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The implementation period is over, but hazardous waste is not exported for destruction. What will the Ministry of Environment and Water do, and within what time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u184	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Vassilev! Air, pesticides are not only an obligation of MOEW, even on the contrary, pesticides are the responsibility of local authorities of the district governor, of the mayor, of economic operators. Same goes for air. It's no coincidence that when we impose fines, some of them go to local municipalities. But all mayors in Bulgaria and regional governors believe that only MOEW should deal with this work, not a bit and MPs, including. In 2020, the activities continued under a subsequent, remaining position of three warehouses on the territory of the RIEW Vratsa, Pleven, Montana, the Bulgarian-Swiss programme. On 16 December 2019, the Governing Council decided on the Treaty implementing Lot 3 to be implemented in the context of a delay by 30 June 2020, as you mentioned. You mentioned the firm, you mentioned everything else. To date, during the execution of the contract in Karlukovo, warehouse No 67, were repacked, transported and disabled 11 tonnes and 60 kg of waste. There are 53,000 left over at the moment. 688 tons. Your question is what do we do with that 53 grand? 688 tons? The answer is very easy. When we come here to adopt a program, it takes a certain amount of time to export pesticides. When activists come out, they throw trucks, rocks, they break glass, they call out TV, they stop the activity, the brigade turns around instead of going to war with anyone, because I watched him on TV attack our trucks, and he goes to the next warehouse. Your warehouse is already repacked, it's sitting, it's protected, and the protocol says: the condition is good, the waste is repacked, there's a metal door, it's locked with a padlock, the area around the building is fenced, the gate is locked, too. After you did not give the opportunity to those who carried out the 11 tons to carry out the remaining 53, they went to other warehouses, carried them out, the program was over. Now we have a new program, you are not in it, they will go and in the remaining 45 days we need 750 tons to collect, and not to wage local wars with people who say we don't want you to take our pesticides and we don't want these trucks to come, or we don't want you to do one thing or another. We have an obligation to Europe, we have an obligation to the programme, we have a timetable to follow. What you did there is to stop you from getting your pesticides out. We're coming to get them out, you're saying don't do it, or our obstacles. Now, why are the pesticides there? - Ask those who were in the way. You were watching on TV, you were having fun, and now, why are the pesticides there? On the new program, where they resist, they don't cooperate, they go to the next warehouse and continue. In no case do we have a scheduled day by day truck to leave, an hour by hour to enter the incinerator in France, notification, repackage, everything, procedures, and finally someone decided to make an asset for themselves in front of television or for the local community, stop the trucks and then say: "Why have they gone away and not returned? " Anyone who doesn't cooperate, we go to the next warehouse. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u186	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. With this comprehensive answer, will you have a line? Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u187	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I am still not satisfied with the answer. These waste has been there for nearly 20 years and we need to defuse them and take them out. It's about 63,000 kilos of solid waste. You said 11,000 that they were repacked and transported, 8,000 liquid pesticides are stored in this warehouse in two rooms. What is the meaning of COS - resistant organic pollutants? These are a group of poisonous very persistent organic substances, which include some pesticides of industrial chemicals, also extremely dangerous dioxins and furans, which are by-products of the combustion processes and non-industrial production in the use of chlorine. Due to their extremely slow degradation, these persistent organic pollutants accumulate in the environment and are carried over long distances from air, water currents as well as mobile organisms. The re-evaporation and condensation of these persistent organic pollutants results in their release into the environment. These persistent organic pollutants pose a global threat, large concentrations can accumulate in living organisms and food products, especially fish. The river Iskar passes through this area, the river Witt flows in there, the river Panega, the region is Karstov, with many caves. These persistent organic pollutants are not soluble in water, but in fat, so the accumulation is clearly expressed in mammalian fat. They are the cause of malignancy. These persistent organic pollutants pose a threat to the ecological health of the planet and human health. I will ask you, Minister, to assist as quickly as possible to close this warehouse on this territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u188	Thank you, dear Mr. Vassilev. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u189	Good afternoon, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u190	Good afternoon.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u191	Honor and honor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u192	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u193	I think this town was there during the program. And the warehouse was full of the same persistent organic pollutants, and the rivers were there, and the whole community, city hall, the local executive was there. Why, when they attacked our trucks, you weren't there? We come to pick them up, we take 11 tons, we come to take another 53 tons, you stop us, and now you tell us, "We've been bothering you, but come again." They're repacked, even the company loses because she didn't get the money for getting in, repacking, putting them in the cans. But at the moment, your warehouse is not a danger. We will now clear a thousand tons in Bulgaria as well as such sustainable, also dangerous, also in settlements, only where they do not resist. Why do you think he's gonna come in there and beat him up a second time and throw rocks at him and explain that... He comes to get them, they accuse him of coming to leave them?! He comes to carry them out, like the 11,000, to burn them, like 3,700 tons, they hinder him. And finally they say, "We have hindered you, but why don't you come back? " - We won't come again. We have a 45-day schedule to clear across Bulgaria other needy who do not resist but are happy that it is gone. Stara Zagora is now a non-Pesticide district, I hope Smolyan will become a non-Pesticide district, but they: I kicked you out yesterday, but today come. We're not going to let anyone in the country get in the way, we're going back in and we're going back in. I kicked you out yesterday, but today come, but wait for these to go, and come back tomorrow, the next day. ♪ We're driving them all over the country right now, we're making these two brigades crazy, I can't afford a second time. A thousand tons at national level should come out. Every resistance I forget, every resistance I surround it, because we have to carry it out a thousand tons, not do it: yesterday I hated you, today I love you. It's all about you. They're in a safe state right now. They're standing there. I can't get a new program to do something from an old program because you were watching and having fun on TV what our teams were doing, and now you suddenly realize that this is dangerous. It's all your fault.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u194	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Let us thank the Minister of Environment and Water for participating in today's parliamentary control. We are going with questions to Mrs. Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. The first question to her is from the MP Zhelyo Boychev on the repair of the highway "Trakiya" in the section between Chirpan and Stara Zagora. Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u195	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm asking a question about the repair of the Motorway section between Chirpan and Stara Zagora. Madam Minister, it's a good thing you started renovating this compromised section of the highway. Unfortunately, the good news ends here. From now on, my questions begin. The first of these is: why are you once again bypassing the Public Procurement Act? You say you're assigning this repair with an estimated value of about 90 million. lv. of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, on the basis of note, the contract that exists between the Road Infrastructure Agency and the Motorway Company, which is the subject of the contract: maintenance in braces preventive, ongoing, winter and repair works in the event of, notice, emergency mode of operation. You hook up to this contract that $90 million and assign the construction works. From now on, there are many questions. Why we are essentially violating the Public Procurement Act, namely art. 116 of the Public Procurement Act, which says, I will now quote it to you that: the public procurement contracts and the contract agreements, as it stands, can be amended when a price increase is required, but it cannot exceed more than fifty percent of the value of the basic contract or framework agreement, and the amendments to the contracts must not aim to circumvent the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u196	The question, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u197	The price that you have incurred with the Auto-Magistrals. For this five-year period of this agreement is 49 million, estimated to be 49 million. Three hundred thousand. lv. Only this repair exceeds almost twice the price. Henceforth, the big questions arise: how and how will the control of the works carried out be carried out and who will guarantee the construction works carried out on this section? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u198	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u199	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Boychev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On 5 October 2020, as you have also announced, there is good news that the renovation of the first 12 km from the highway of Trakia is under way in the 52 km lane for Burgas, which will be renovated. The station to be renovated is from 156 km after a road hub "Belozem" up to 168 km before a road node "Orizovo" in the territory of Stara Zagora. The renovation, as you pointed out, will be carried out by the company "Automagistrali" with which the Road Infrastructure Agency "supplied a contract on 30 August 2019 following an open procedure under the Law and public procurement for the appointment of a contractor for the maintenance of the highway "Trakiya" on the territory of the district road governments Sofia, Pazardzhik, Plovdiv and Stara Zagora. The Agency assigned to the "Automighistrals" the preparation of a technological project for preventive repair of the Motorway "Trakia" for the entire section of 52 km "from km 156 to km 208," agreed with the Institute of Roads and Bridges, and the intended value of the repair of the road for Burgas is estimated and is determined compared to the quantities laid down in the project based on the market prices of materials and work. The price at stake includes restrictive systems for right-hand lane, as well as marking and signs. The control of the implementation of the repair is carried out by the territorial structures of the Road Infrastructure Agency, the regional road management and, if necessary, by the Institute of Roads and Bridges. In accordance with the contract with the "Autho-mistrals', the requested period for carrying out the repairs is three years and it starts from the date of the guarantee protocol, which contains the date of acceptance of the activities carried out and applies to the relevant certificate of actually implemented and accepted types of work. It shall indicate the value of the types of work for which it is drawn. We predict this renovation will be completed by the end of October, early November, if the weather, of course, allows, then the construction activities in the direction of Burgas to continue with the remaining 40 km from Riceovo to Stara Zagora. Regarding your question about the value of the repair. I would like to tell you that when I announced the estimated value in 2019, it was estimated on the basis of the opinion of experts from the Institute of Roads and Bridges. The amount of 89 million has already been formed on the basis of real prices of the contracts concluded, and I would like to point out that the activities which include the installation of restrictive systems, production and installation of road signs and the laying of horizontal marking, which are included in the total value for the performance of the construction and repair activities, will be implemented by companies that have concluded contracts with the Road Infrastructure Agency for this activity and under the Public Procurement Act for them a procedure has been carried out. So the repair activities will be carried out by the Auto-maritimes. The installation of restrictive systems is commissioned to be carried out by the company "Jupiter 05" which has won a public contract for the territory of the South East region. The production and installation of road signs will be carried out by the company "Mykoni " Ltd. in Smolyan also with a contract after a public procurement contract and the horizontal marking by the Department of Transport "Iztok" with a contract with the Agency " Road Infrastructure" for carrying out a horizontal marking, concluded also after a public procurement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u200	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mr. Boychev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u201	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I cannot be satisfied with the information you provide, because there is essentially no answer to any of the questions I have asked you. The big question is why are you circumventing the Public Procurement Act? How and how are the values of these construction works to be carried out on the highway of Trakiya? You have carried out a procedure under the Public Procurement Act for ongoing repair and winter maintenance of 49 million in five years and currently with only one contract for one canvas you are putting an additional 90 million on the highway I would like to say to you that I will from now on make a series of questions to you, because to this state-owned company you, by you I mean the Council of Ministers, by increasing the budget of your ministry you have distributed over 4.5 billion, I say again, with full awareness that this company cannot carry out this type of construction work. You surround the Public Procurement Act and distribute the additional activities to companies at your discretion, turn the Automagistrals in a black box or black hole to say it, through which you distribute a huge resource, but the big questions are still about quality and control. In essence you know that this is a first-class construction, you know what this means according to the requirements of ZUT and how control should be carried out, and you answer me that control will be carried out by the territorial units of API. That's what it says in art. 20 on this contract. See, the quantities of the actual works and activities carried out to maintain the Republican road network are demonstrated by drawings, photographs and automatically identified dates, schemes and reports and other evidence. This is under the contract that you have with the Automagestrals. The state company is on one side. The state company is the Automighistrals, from the other is the State Agency Road Infrastructure. You are the principal of the state-owned company. You control yourself with what is being done. We cannot accept such an approach and a way by which you deny access to public information, public control by spending huge budgetary resources. There is no clarity who will ultimately take responsibility for the guarantee for the works done, as the Law on Construction in the Area clearly states what the guarantee should be for these types of construction sites, and you are talking to me here for three years guaranteeing the asphalt coating.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u202	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Mrs. Minister, please come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u203	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Boychev, the guarantee period for carrying out preventive current repairs will be carried out by the company What they will do will be the milling of asphalt, the cold recycling of a binding substance, the laying of a layer of porous asphalt concrete for a basic layer, the laying of a geoweb and the laying of a layer of non-solid asphalt concrete. I would like to point out that the units of the Road Infrastructure Agency and the Regional Road Managements have always exercised investor control in carrying out the activities of ongoing repair, maintenance and preventive repairs of the Republican road network. So we have always been open to all kinds of issues related to the activity of the Road Infrastructure Agency and to the company of the Automamistrals, both to you, the MPs, and to the media, which ask us about the way we access public information. We've always been open and ready to answer questions. The company "Atomistrals" has a capacity that is constantly needed for new people. In these last years, it has built enough capacity, has equipment, so it can take over and has a contract to carry out such repairs right on Trakiya Motorway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u204	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. We move on to the second question to Minister Avramova. The question is from the MP Lyubomir Bonev about the condition and repair of the road I-1 from Knyazhevo district to the road hub of Daskalovo. Here you go, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u205	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Madam Minister, this is the fifth issue within the Forty-fourth National Assembly on the condition of road I-1 from Knyazhevo district to road hub Daskalovo. According to traffic cams, the continuation of this section is one of the busiest from route I-6, with over 30,000 cars passing each day. Despite the signs and cones introduced over the years for reversible movement, traffic jams and plugs continue until now. I recall that at the end of 2017 and in 2018 the section of the road passing through the territory of Sofia Municipality was renovated. The rest, which passes through the municipality of Pernik, has not been repaired despite the assurances of your predecessor Minister Nankov that there will be a repair of the road. I've asked you the same question. I remind you that as early as 2017 and 2018, your predecessor committed himself to doing certain construction and construction works to expand the road, to put in place an intelligent traffic system. They have not been made at this time. My question to you, Minister, for the fifth time is: is the road being repaired between the Knyazhevo district and the road hub of Daskalovo, passing through the territory and the municipality of Pernik? Is the introduction of a reversible movement by means of traffic lights? I will allow myself to mention in the question that on this road there is a bridge facility with a broken road plate, which I have repeatedly asked you about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u206	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Madam Minister, please give an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u207	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Bonev, on my last answer to the same question, I said that the implementation of repair works and the introduction of electronic reverse movement on the road I-1 from Knyazhevo district to the road hub "Daskalovo" are part of the plans of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and, in particular, the Road Infrastructure Agency, for which funds and ways to implement them will be sought. The Road Infrastructure Agency is responsible for the development of a technological project for preventive repair of 4,38 km from Republican road I-1 Sofia. "Daskalovo" Dupnitsa in the section of km 282+485, border with the district of Sofia, to km 286+865, a crossroad with highway. The project is made by the road-supporting company "Trailway" Pernik, under a contract for carrying out activities: maintenance................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The project is ready, agreed by the Institute of Roads and Bridges. Technology cutting is envisaged; pre-repairing is envisaged; laying of non-solid asphalt concrete; arming geoweb; solid asphalted fibre; replacement of all concrete curbs; construction of banquets; cleaning of collector systems and waterfalls; drainage ditches with drainage. The cost of preventive repairs is 6 million. 787 thousand. BGN 768. with VAT. New restrictive systems, vertical signalling and horizontal marking of a total of 1 million will also be installed. $260,000. 500 leva. with VAT. The renovation will start in 2021. Currently, the republican roads are preparing for the upcoming winter months and during the months of November, no repairs are being undertaken. At this time, only maintenance activities in emergency situations will be carried out. Upon completion of winter maintenance and funding, the planned repair activities will be implemented. With regard to the second part of your question, which you are asking, I inform you that the implementation of the electronic reverse movement system has been developed and agreed by the competent institutions a project for the permanent organisation of the movement of road I-1 Sofia.. Pernik from km 276+162 to km 282+450. On the basis of the agreed design, a work project has been drawn up. It is sent to Sofia Municipality for coordination, then it should be agreed by the State Agency. After coordination of the project it will be valued and will proceed to the construction of the field system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u208	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Bonev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u209	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of Parliament, Madam Secretary! The indicative value of repairs has been known since February 2018. In front of me I keep the answer of Minister Nankov at that time. Three years after that we have made progress at least we have a work project to build an intelligent traffic system, or a traffic reverse traffic, which perhaps, hopefully, will happen 2021. I will repeat myself repeatedly, we have asked this question five times, but it is not normal, Madam Minister. It's not normal! This is perhaps the third or fourth busiest section of the Republican road network after the Trakiya highway and the Traffic is now even stronger because the Lyulin Highway is one way or another closed because of a landslide. Last week, I asked you the question about the state of the Republican Road Network, which could not be controlled over the years and has not been registered to date. It's good to have things really happen, we're counting on things to happen. I hope there will not be another empty promise left by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u210	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. For the coat, Mrs. Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u211	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Bonev, we are working hundreds of miles from the Republican road network as repairs, such as building new sections. Of course, the road you repeatedly ask about is one of the important sections of the Republican road network that needs to be repaired. I have just made a commitment 2021 to implement this, as well as the work project that you asked about, for the reversible movement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u212	Thank you, dear Minister. We're moving on to the final question for today. He is from the National Representative Mrs. Boryana Georgieva on the repair of the highway "Trakiya" right lane. Here you go, Mrs. Georgieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u213	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister Avramova, as you know, I have asked several times a question about the section between Chirpan and Stara Zagora at the highway I would like to congratulate you on the beginning of the repair of this section, despite the delay and the opening of the amount that was needed, but here arises a new question and ambiguity rather than just for me, but also for many citizens who sent their inquiries to us: why did the amount needed for the repair of 60 million turn into 90, what imposed this change and what cost the repair by nearly 50%? I hope that you will give us a comprehensive answer that will make it clear.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u214	Thank you, dear Mrs. Georgieva. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u215	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Georgieva, I thank you for this question, so that we can really give clarity to both you and to the people who are interested in repairing the Trakia Motorway, and I know that there are many of them. All who travel in this area have been forced for two years to endure the inconveniences of passing along this route. You know that this section was built in 2007, that there is a problem with the road base, so the folded asphalt layer creates problems and we were looking for an opportunity and a way to finance, to fix this problem. As I pointed out in my previous reply to you, the repair activities of the highway "Trakiya" will be carried out on a section from km 156 to km 208, i.e. 52 km in total, and not from km 168+000 to km 208+000 in the direction of Burgas "right lane," as announced in advance. We are currently talking about repairing a 52 km-long track, unlike the answer in my previous 40 km-long question. I would like to make an explanation here regarding the sum of 60 million. BGN, which is mentioned in the wording of your question. The estimated value was determined in 2019 and carried out on the basis of a survey of the section from km 168+000 to km 208+000, i.e. a forty-mile section of the highway "Trakia" by experts from the Institute of Roads and Bridges. The value of 89 million lv. is already for the repair of 52 km from Trakia Motorway and is the result of the calculation of the quantities set out in the developed and approved technology project, developed on the basis of market prices of materials and work related to contracts concluded with companies performing both the repair activities of the highway and the replacement of road signs, the horizontal marking, of the restrictive systems. In the mentioned 89 million lv. About 70 million are included. lv. for repairing the road for an area of 52 km, not 40 km, medium dividing strip, drainage and collector system in the middle dividing strip, about 4 million. lv. for the replacement of road signs, as well as the horizontal marking in the two lanes for Sofia and Burgas, or a total of 104 km, as well as 15 million. lv. replacing the restricted road systems in the mid-range and at the banquet for the entire 52 km section. These values, as I have already pointed out, are set at the prices of the contracts for: carrying out the maintenance of a forceful, ongoing, winter and repair works; supply and installation of restrictive systems; contract for production and installation of road signs; and contract for making a horizontal marking. All these contracts were concluded after public procurement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u216	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Do you have a line, Mrs. Georgieva? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. I believe that, after this, there is much more clarity and yet, to be honest, the accounts do not come out. Sixty million was 40 kilometers off the initial data route. You are currently announcing 52 km, which is expected to be repaired. If we have to consider them a kilometer away, which I just did, it kind of turns out that 78 million should be the repair, not 89, so there's still a miscalculation in the accounts.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u218	They're different.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u219	Yeah, they must be different. Maybe you can tell us the difference where it comes from. And something additional: is it expected and what is the duration of the guarantee for this part of the highway that will be renovated now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u220	Thank you, Mrs. Georgieva. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u221	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ms. Georgieva, in my reply I gave clarity about this difference in valuation and I will repeat it. First, the difference in kilometers.. instead of 40, which was given an estimated value of 2019 for 40 km, we will now repair 52 km. Second, the initial value of 60 million. lv. It was for 40 km. The value of the Institute of Roads and Bridges. The final value that I have announced is 89 million. BGN, is based on the actual contracts concluded..value by type of works of real contracts concluded by the Agency.. Road infrastructure.. for both repair and restrictive systems, road signs and horizontal marking. This is an estimate of the quantities at prices from contracts actually concluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-16.u222	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We've run out of agendas with this. The next meeting of the National Assembly is on 21 October 2020 at 9.00. Thank you all for attending the controls. Have a good rest! I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
