ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the 28th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members are unable to attend today's meeting: Matjaž Han from 10 a.m., Dr. Vinko Gorenak from 13 a.m., Zvonko Černač, Alojz Posedel, Marijan Pojbič, Alojz Potočnik, mag. Andreja Richter, Dr. László Göncz, Janja Klasinc, Renata Brunskole, Jakob Preseknik, Roberto Battelli, Joško Godec, mag. Melita Župevc, Matjaž Zanoškar, Tadej Slapnik and Miran Jerič. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 8. At the time of the day, this is in line with the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on public procurement in water, energy, transport and postal services within the framework of the shorter procedure: the proposal for a law has been tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to complete the explanation of the bill. The text is by Matthew Vraničar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In 2010, direct payments to subcontractors performing public contracts were defined as a contracting entity's obligation. In this way, the legislator wanted to reduce payment non-discipline, but further amendments to the Public Procurement Act had to be prepared this year in order to enforce these provisions. They were accepted by the National Assembly at a March session. The law you will be discussing today follows these changes and introduces changes in the field of so-called infrastructure public procurement. Let me remind you again of the most important news. Under the applicable law, direct payments are compulsory only for the first round of subcontractors. In practice, suppliers reported as subcontractors their subsidiaries or undertakings with which they were capital-linked. However, subcontractors who actually carried out the public contract were therefore excluded from direct payments. In order to eliminate this anomaly, the law is being corrected by excluding persons directly linked to the main operator from the right of direct payments. With a view to ensuring effective legal protection, it is more precisely regulated to have an eye on the tender submitted in the procurement procedure by allowing it to be inspected at least three days before the expiry of the time limit for the enforcement of legal protection. The changes in the law on legal protection in the procurement procedures you discussed on Wednesday change and further regulate the obligation to take account of the period of standstill. With a view to rationalising the procurement procedure, the possibility of modifying the contracting authority’s decision to award the contract is reinstated by law. The contracting authority may, after the decision has been taken, find that when verifying the most favourable offer, it has overlooked or misunderstood a certain fact and has subsequently taken the wrong decision. The new decision replacing the previous decision may be subject to the application of legal protection by the tenderers. Additional reasons shall also be laid down for which the contracting authority may derogate from the conclusion of the contract, despite the decision on the award of the contract. In view of the current economic situation, the law also lays down stricter conditions for tenderers. Contractors will no longer be allowed to award public contracts to a tenderer who is in bankruptcy or has unpaid taxes or social security contributions. A supplier whose member of the management, supervisory authority or representative has been in the same position in another economic operator or owner with a share greater than 25 % will also be excluded from the procurement procedure if such an economic operator has gone to bankruptcy, forcible settlement or forcible cessation of business. These conditions will also have to be met by subcontractors. The law regulates the public procurement examination more precisely, thereby helping to improve the professional competence of staff members who decide on procurement procedures. If I conclude, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement in Water, Energy, Transport and Postal Services brings solutions already confirmed by the National Assembly by the adoption of the new Public Procurement Act in March this year. They relate primarily to ensuring greater financial discipline, reducing the risks of non-contracting. The solutions proposed also enable more effective implementation of procurement procedures or framework agreements and related legal protection. In view of all the above, the Government proposes that the National Assembly approve the proposal for a law in both the second and third readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to President Bogdan Čepić for the presentation of the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u4	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Nice greeting, Secretary of State. Colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is held at its 27th session. 5. In 2011, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Procurement in Water, Energy, Transport and the Field of Postal Services to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held on 8. 4. In 2011, the decision confirmed that the text submitted was dealt with in a simplified procedure. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which provides specific comments on Articles 8, 19, 27, 28, 31, 33, 35, 36, 37 and 38 of the legislative proposal. No amendments were tabled to the legislative proposal within the time limit set by qualified applicants. The Committee took note of the proposals for amendments to the Committee by 19, 28, 31, 35, 36, 37 and 38 of the legislative proposal prepared by the Ministry of Finance on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and adopted by the committee in its follow-up. In the main highlights of the text, inter alia, the representative of the applicant exposed direct payments to subcontractors, the establishment of effective legal protection by clarifying the visibility of offers from other tenderers, the revised obligations with regard to respect for the period of retirement, the introduction of a change in the decision to award a contract in the event of possible misinterpretation or misinterpretation by the contracting authority, which consequently takes incorrect decisions, the definition of additional withdrawals from the conclusion of the contract and the introduction of certain requirements relating to the basic capacity of the tenderer. At the same time, the text also enables the contracting authority to take note of ownership as well as of the links between the successful tenderer and regulates the area of education or verification of the competence of the contracting authorities. It was also stated that most of the comments made by the Legal and Legislative Service were taken into account in the Committee's amendment proposal, by not accepting the Ministry's acceptance of individual concerns in order to ensure the necessary correlation with the amendment of the Public Procurement Act. It follows from the explanation of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, among other things, that it insists on the comments given in Articles 27 and 33 of the legislative proposal and that amendments prepared as working materials fully follow the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service. On the basis of the decision previously adopted, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the legislative proposal together following the adoption of the amendments mentioned above. In the light of the amendments adopted pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law, which includes all the amendments adopted, is prepared and the amended draft law has been received by a report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! A good two months ago, we adopted amendments to the Public Procurement Act in the National Assembly. In the Slovenian People's Party, we supported the bill at that time and we will also support this bill for the same reasons as we are basic, if I may say so. By implementing the most recent amendments and supplementing the Public Procurement Act in the water, energy, transport and postal services areas exactly one year ago, compulsory direct payments to subcontractors were introduced with a view to regulating payment discipline in public procurement by subcontractors. In view of the fact that direct payments are only mandatory for the first round of subcontractors under the law, the subcontractors as subcontractors reported their subsidiaries or undertakings to which the capital is linked, the subcontractors who actually carried out the contract were consequently excluded from direct payments. In view of the oblivion of the provisions of the law by which the legislator sought to reduce payment non-discipline, the proposal changes the definition of the subcontractor. We trust and hope and we want such a solution to be able to regulate these anomalies. Let me re-emphasize what seems most important to us – unacceptable, immoral, all convictions are worth the practice of playing the rules of public procurement, which has evolved in Slovenia to master accuracy. The company gets into bankruptcy, on its knees, creditors, subcontractors, workers are left without everything, hungry, barefoot, without a roof over its head, without any hope of paying a fair and hard-earned and wasted payment. Let us establish one, two, three, endlessly many subsidiaries, new businesses connected in one way or another, and laugh in a mustache at the state, creditors, workers, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, serve and never answer for anything. On the contrary, we continue to be kept in the safe hands of state money, state-owned enterprises and tendering. Interestingly, such a circle of people is always the same, always the same, and in the end, nothing. This practice must be removed step by step, uncompromising, brutal, however you wish. That fooling was probably enough. If the law enforcement authorities are not already acting or their measures are not effective, at least the country in areas where it has scissors and linen must eliminate such anomalies. Thus, we are pleased to note that the solution put into the basic law on our proposal also applies to this law, which, because of the area in question, has even greater financial implications. That is to say, it is essential to exclude from the contract a candidate, tenderer and subcontractor whose member of the management or supervisory authority has at any time within two years before the time limit for the award of tenders in the procurement procedure a member or a member of the management or supervisory authority or representative of the entity to which the bankruptcy or enforcement procedure has been initiated or the enforcement procedure has been enforced. As I said, the proposed law will be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A nice greeting from the secretary of state. Colleagues and colleagues! In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposal for a new law governing the procurement of certain sectors and will take action against payment non-discipline. The amendment of the Public Procurement Act on water, energy, transport and postal services changes the definition of the subcontractor, as in the Public Procurement Act adopted on 4 March. This should avoid the abuse of the applicable regime whereby the contracting authority is obliged to pay subcontractors directly. The contractor’s subsidiary or capital related company will no longer be regarded as the subcontractor of the main contractor, but will receive direct payment from the contracting authority to the following subcontractor. In addition, as in the basic Public Procurement Act, the delay of proceedings is somewhat limited, the possibility of looking at different competing tenderers in other tenders is increased, and the contracting authority is given the opportunity to derogate under certain conditions from the already decided award of the contract. The public procurement examination is also more precisely regulated. As I pointed out at the outset, we will support the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Bogdan Barovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u10	Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues. Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, I am pleased to see you often; obviously, the areas of the economy, the finances of the most common areas of work are also in the home labour. In view of the fact that colleagues will probably also present the basic principles, objectives and purposes of this law in their views, allow me, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, to highlight the two content that we have considered in our decision to adopt or reject the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on public procurement in water, energy, transport and postal services. First time. The proposal in Article 67a, paragraph 27 of this Act, gives a broad mandate – perhaps even too wide in our opinion, as the Legislative and Legal Service also believes – to the Minister of Finance to lay down technical conditions for participation in electronic public procurement, while we have observed that the proposal for a law does not provide any substantive guidance on what the Minister's regulation should contain and what requirements should be. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has repeatedly pointed out that the law authorising the Minister to issue a sub-legislative regulation must clearly lay down the regulatory framework. It follows from the explanation of the representative of the applicant that it was heard at the meeting of the home working body that the Ministry, having examined the comment in question on Article 27, assessed that such a legal provision allows the Minister of Finance to determine exclusively the technical conditions for tenderers to participate in electronic public procurement, which does not, in fact, constitute a broad mandate for the Ministry of Finance or the Minister. However, since the restriction itself is also part of certain technical instructions, it is therefore envisaged that the Minister should be empowered in the view of the Government. Following the recommendations of the Legal and Legislative Service, the law is intended to summarise the content of the Annex to a specific European Directive, but it is, in this way, written and mentioned as a redefinition after the opinion expressed, and is thus regulated. The second question that we are being asked is that the contracting authority may, after taking a decision on the award of the contract but before concluding the contract, withdraw from the performance of the contract. There are two reasons, therefore, for the contracting authority to have reasonable suspicion that the content of the contract was or could have been the result of the crime committed and that other exceptional circumstances have arisen that the contracting authority could not have been affected and foreseen and made it impossible to carry out the contract with the successful tenderer. With regard to the second reason, therefore, the exceptional circumstances which the contracting authority could not have been able to anticipate and which made the execution of the contract with the successful tenderer impossible, however, a legal problem arises — their non-definition in the law and thus the undeclaration of the whole provision. In our view, the bill should at least outline these circumstances, legally speaking, on the basis of the principle of regulatory certainty. We also discussed this on the committee, but the arguments were less convincing than we would have liked. So, these are the two reasons that we have discussed in the Slovenian National Party, and we will decide whether we will confirm or agree on the bill, each of us will decide for ourselves at our own discretion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Ljubo Germič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Law on Public Procurement in Water, Energy, Transport and Postal Services is, in fact, the Law on Public Procurement. They are essentially similar or similar to each other, and they have some specific features that are present. However, since the Law on Public Procurement, which regulated certain public procurement relations, was adopted a long time ago, the Government also prepared an update of this law. As with the Public Procurement Act, it is essential to prevent major contractors from nominating them as subcontractors and subcontractors through the establishment of subsidiaries, thereby preventing direct payments. As we have pointed out several times in the LDS, we support and welcome this solution, even though we, as we have done many times before, have found that it is only through legislation that this kind of work is difficult to prevent, as we are constantly being subjected to different acts of law. The main problem lies in business culture and appropriate supervision and sanctioning. In any case, at the LDS Club, we hope that we have closed at least one – obviously very popular – way of playing legislation and thus the consequent damage to real subcontractors, who are also the last in the chain to be the most vulnerable. The novelty also allows for a change in the decision on the award of a contract where the contracting authority overlooks any information and therefore makes an incorrect decision. The reasons for the withdrawal from the contract shall also be further defined. In the LDS, we also welcome the modernisation of the provision on the possibility of withdrawing from the conclusion of the contract, which provides that this can be done if it is found that the content of the contract is a consequence of a criminal offence or if, following the decision to award the contract, there are exceptional circumstances which the contracting authority could not foresee or affect, and the conclusion of the contract with the successful tenderer makes no sense because it will not be able to fulfil the contractual obligations. Thus, the contract excludes a tenderer who is in bankruptcy where his board member, supervisory board or representative has been a member of the board of directors, supervisory board, representative or owner for the past two years with a 25 % share in the company that has been bankrupt, forcible settlement or forcible liquidation in those two years. Other solutions also deal more closely with the procedure and the possibility of looking at unchosen tenderers in other offers. As we assess in the LDS that the solutions in the law are appropriate and appropriate, we will also support the proposal for a new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Bogdan Čepič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Given the extent of the consequences of the payment non-discipline and the situation in the Slovenian economy, it is necessary to act quickly in this area to prevent the difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State and the financial system. As a result, the National Assembly has already adopted a Public Procurement Act restricting access to public funds for companies and owners and managers of companies in compulsory settlement or bankruptcy. We are also transferring this to the current law that we are dealing with. The area of public procurement is regulated in fact by three laws: the Public Procurement Act, which we have already adopted, the Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement Procedures, which is in the process of adoption, and we are now amending a double law on public procurement, this is the Law on Public Procurement in Water, Energy, Transport and the Field of Postal Services. The most important changes to the law relate to the determination of payments for subcontractors who are, in fact, subcontractors and not subsidiaries of contractors, and a stricter criterion is introduced for who can lead public procurement procedures. By implementing the latest amendments and supplementing both public procurement laws, compulsory direct payments to subcontractors were introduced with a view to regulating payment discipline in public procurement by subcontractors. However, the shortcomings identified by the operators of these provisions had to be addressed. In view of the possibility of abuse of the Public Procurement Act, the definition of subcontractor is substantially changed. Indeed, subcontractors are actually victims of payment non-discipline in works awarded on the basis of public contracts and paid from public funds. The main operator generally receives the service paid and subcontractors in the second or third row are played. As an essential amendment to this Act, it is therefore necessary to stress the change in the definition of the subcontractor; this amendment will make it impossible to duplicate the provisions of the Public Procurement Act on water, energy, transport and postal services. However, greater financial discipline will also be provided in the execution of public procurement, and we expect that this will have positive effects on economic operators who are not in a bonded relationship with the contracting authority, but are still involved in the execution of public contracts. In order to ensure effective legal protection, the examination of the tender by a non-elected tenderer in the tendering procedure submitted shall be more detailed in order to allow it to be inspected at least 3 days before the expiry of the period for the enforcement of legal protection. As a result of changes in the law on legal protection in procurement procedures, the obligation to take account of the period of standstill also changes and is more precisely regulated. The contracting authority will no longer need to be taken into account during the period of standstill in the case of the award of an individual contract under the framework agreement or in the dynamic purchasing system, which means that these orders will be delivered faster and more efficiently. In order to rationalise procurement procedures, the law re-introverts the possibility of modifying the contracting authority's award decision. The contracting authority may, after taking a decision on the award of the contract, find that when verifying the most favourable offer, it has overlooked or misunderstood a certain fact and has subsequently taken the wrong decision. The new decision replacing the previous decision may be subject to the application of legal protection by the tenderers. It shall also specify the additional reasons why the contracting authority may derogate from the conclusion of the contract in spite of a legal decision on the award of the contract, provided that it finds that there is a possibility that the content of the contract may be a consequence of a criminal offence, or if, following a decision on the award of the contract, exceptional circumstances have arisen which the contracting authority could not foresee or affect, and the conclusion of a contract with the successful tenderer makes no sense because it will not be able to fulfil the contractual obligations. For this reason, the Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on public procurement in water, energy, transport and postal services.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Rado Likar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! This novel of the Public Procurement Act on water, energy, transport and postal services could be said to be a twin brother of the Public Procurement Act, which is or will be born, something later, of course, which is not quite normal. At that time in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we expected that the parliamentary procedure would be accompanied by a new Public Procurement Act, just as it had been a scratch until now. However, the proposed solutions are intended to be included in the package of intervention laws to reduce payment non-discipline and, in our view, they make sense to support them and should be implemented throughout the field of public procurement, as the biggest procurements are in the areas covered by these amendments. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, before the adoption of the amendment to the Public Procurement Act, as well as these novels, we drew attention to the possibility of abuse and to the ineffective resolution of the problems relating to subcontractors. Despite the good intentions of the proposer, which he probably wants to achieve with the amendment of the law, we fear in the SDS that he will not bring what he has originally intended – to prevent the abuses we have witnessed in recent times. This is because the perpetrators of these abuses suffer no sanctions, no material sanctions, no morals. We discussed the issue of non-payment of subcontractors in the construction of individual sections of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. It is evident that there is something seriously wrong in Slovenia, because despite relatively good legislation, or, say, this legislative effort, we are constantly witnessing violations, especially in cases where there are large companies, including hundreds of percent of state-owned people, and those who do not have a living state authority or parliament. I am referring to the state company Dars, in which the Court of Auditors found serious infringements of the obligation to do business, called for the procedure to be initiated for the discharge of two persons responsible for Darsa, and nothing happened at all. On the contrary, citizens should be grateful to them because no one else can manage such systems so successfully, and they are somehow irreplaceable. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that until formal institutions start operating in the country, until we cut through clienteleistic connections, as we have seen them in these companies, large construction systems, and anyone else in the political order, it will not help to write new laws as long as it takes. Otherwise, we believe that the purpose of the amendment is good and worth a try, so we will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Villa Trophynik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u18	Nice greetings to all present. Thank you for your word. The examination of the proposed amendments and the completion of the Public Procurement Act on water, energy, transport and postal services would make sense at the same time as the amendments and supplements to the Public Procurement Act, which we have discussed or adopted in March. The most recent amendments to this Act have focused primarily on the purpose of regulating payment discipline in public procurement, or on mandatory direct payments have been made to subcontractors, who have apparently begun to play through the subsidiaries or capital-related companies of the main operator due to underthinking solutions. As inappropriate in practice, the applicable legal regime has also proved to be applicable with regard to the appearance of unchosen tenderers in the offers of competitors which do not allow examination or verification, or competitive offers fulfil the tendering conditions. The proposed amendments to the law prevent further direct payments to subcontractors and impose on subcontractors active cooperation in eliminating payment non-discipline by obliging a copy of the contract with the main contractor to deliver the contract to the contracting authority in a timely manner. In order to remedy the shortcomings of existing legislation regarding the right of view of an unchosen tenderer, the right of inspection shall be introduced at least three days before the expiry of the period for the enforcement of legal protection, while at the same time the public of the procurement documents shall be provided only from the competence of the contracting authority’s decision on the award of the contract. The proposed amendments to the Law on public procurement in the water energy, transport and postal services sector also translate part of the 2006 Directive of the European Parliament of the Council, number 66, relating to the amendment of the two Council Directives of 1989 and 1992 on the question of improving the efficiency of the audit procedures for the award of public works contracts relating to the provision of a period of public service contracts under the framework agreement. In practice, this has proved to be an obstacle to the ongoing award of individual contracts. As a result, the proposed amendment removes the period of standstill, and instead provides for the nullity of individual contracts in the event of major infringements of the law by the new Law on Legal Protection already adopted in the procurement proceedings. In the parliamentary group, we will submit amendments to the law, including the amendments adopted by the home labour body, which improve the legislative proposal in terms of the legislative and legal service's comments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made on Tuesday, 24 May 2011, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 21. At the end of the day, it's a proposal for a law on public financial liability in another defense. The draft law was tabled by a group of 27 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 27 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the applicants. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u20	Dear President, Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! It is not only the opinion of the opposition that this opinion is shared by virtually all economic experts, as well as the Fiscal Council, that Slovenia is in an exceptional position of fiscal instability. We have had an extremely unbalanced budget for several years, so we have been producing the last two billion euro deficits, budget deficits, every year. This means that we have raised approximately 4 to 5 billion government deficits only within the mandate of this government and, as a result, we have been obliged, of course, to cover this public financial deficit. If we look at the structure of the revenue and expenditure structure of the state budget, including public finances, we can see that budget revenues have fallen dramatically since 2008 and that, of course, there are other expenditure at a higher level than when we had a balanced budget or even surplus in 2007. So what I'm saying is that the scissors are opening up, we're wasting away, and the state is creating and taxpayers are creating significantly less. The issue is also critical because it does not appear to be the end, especially because it does not see the effective measures taken by the Government, which would infect and start closing these scissors, thus infested this deficit. The government constantly promises to stabilise public finances with a number of strategic documents to reduce the deficit. This happened already in the exit strategy about a year and a half ago. This is happening in the Euro Pact as well as in the Reform Programme, while facts are different and, in fact, we are moving away from year to year by approaching the deficit of 3% of GDP. So, one thing we are saying, of course, is that public finances need to be stabilised, and another is measures to achieve this, and the deficit as well as debt increases enormously. Why? Because we are ruled by a government that has no synchronism and is operating totally in the field of public finances. We have been able to see, say, before the recent facts, when the Minister of Public Administration advocates lowering costs and lowering the number of employees in public administration, while the other minister, who is competent for, say, education and sport, cheers on this and employs cheerfully, and of course the consequences are pressure on public money and more money for wages and, of course, even more broadly, these new jobs. Similarly, we have in other areas just to mention one of the examples – preschool education when Minister Lukšič sees no need to actually consider criteria, criteria in this area and see if there is room here. Such cases are still a species, and all these cases result in two billion annual deficits. So in the Slovenian Democratic Party, of course, we have proposed a law to limit public spending and the country's indebtedness. We want to limit the country's wider sector expenditure to 45% of GDP this year and then every year for one percentage point less, up to 43% in 2013. This is what we want because the government is not able on the revenue side to achieve at least a little balance in the budget, to cut into expenditure on the expenditure side and, of course, to reduce the deficit and to limit the consumption of the country. Respectable. This first reading of this bill is also an opportunity for Parliament to make a public announcement to the government that this is no longer going on. The government needs to prepare an effective programme to stabilise public finances and an effective programme to reduce the budget deficit, or in the coming years we will be paying up to EUR 1 billion in interest on net loans, which will consume the entire developmental part of the budget and help us in such a scenario!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u21	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. The text is by Matthew Vraničar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u22	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Members and Members! This bill reopens the general debate on public consumption, but also this time on the basis of an incomplete legislative proposal which sets out or lays down certain rules on the limitation of public spending, but these rules are not put into the proper context of the whole public finances legislation. Over the past two years, the approach to policy management in the field of public finances, including to prevent even worse consequences of the economic and financial crisis, has changed well compared to the previous period of significant economic expansion. The government is well aware of the scale of the economic and financial crisis and has, in the past period, proposed a series of measures to mitigate its negative consequences. These guidelines have also been followed by a public finance policy, and we therefore assess that the applicant's allegations that the current management of the state's financial policy poses a threat to the stability of public finances are not justified. We are aware of the importance of the medium-term consolidation of public finances, and we are also aware of the need for an ever-increasing focus of public finances on development. With regard to consolidation, the Government has recently presented key documents to the public and also to the competent committees of the DZ, which are and will guide the formulation of a specific public finance policy in the future. I am talking, of course, about the stability programme, the national reform programme and the medium-term fiscal framework. It is also important to stress in the field of systemic change that the Government has already adopted a Regulation on development planning documents and procedures for the preparation of a national budget proposal in June of the previous year, focusing on a development-oriented programme budget. That Regulation also lays down a fiscal rule setting out the ceiling for public expenditure. In accordance with this Regulation, the upper limit is fixed by a specific formula. The fiscal rule takes into account the current macroeconomic and fiscal position. Also targeted, which must be in line with the Stability and Growth Pact. The bill that we are considering today foresees that fiscal rules limit the scope of the expenditure of the wider sector of the country. This should take into account that the expenditure of the wider sector of the country includes, inter alia, expenditure on European earmarked resources, expenditure on earmarked state and municipal budgets, as well as all expenditure on funds acquired by those entities on the market in accordance with the applicable rules. Since in principle European funds are intended for development, it can be understood that these funds are not subject to the proposed law. However, the problem is dedicated expenditure, which does not necessarily have to be considered as developmental, but is not allowed to be used for another purpose. Nor did the Lawmaker take into account that the municipalities have been granted autonomy by law and that they also have their own public financial resources. The municipalities shall establish indirect users of municipal budgets for their needs whose expenditure is taken into account in the expenditure of the wider sector in accordance with the ESA 95 methodology. Taking into account all the proposed expenditure limits mentioned above, it is not possible to achieve them by means of a national budget rebalancing and a new law on the implementation of the country's budgets, as proposed by the proposer. In view of the fact that the impact of the State on the determination of the amount of municipal expenditure and expenditure of entities carrying out activities other than regular activities not financed by public financial resources is not possible, it is not possible to draw up a budget balance in accordance with the proposed law. Finally, it should be pointed out that the Ministry of Finance has already forwarded a new Law on Public Finance, which lays down the rules of fiscal discipline and regulates the issue of fiscal rules in a comprehensive manner. The draft law sets fiscal rules by binding on the long-term sustainability of public finances all four public cash financing and not just the state budget. Taking into account all the above, the Government estimates that the proposed law, extracted from the context and not aligned with other public financial legislation, will not have the expected effects, will not achieve the objectives set in the field of limiting public consumption and debt, and therefore does not support the proposed government law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Franc Jurša. Please, peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u24	Have a nice hello again. I got some advice on my way to the pay phone, but I'm still gonna say what's written down. The key objective of the proposed Law on Public Liability is to limit public spending and limit the country's indebtedness. In other words, it is the view of the Government that the reduction in public spending in the fiscal rule is too lax and that it is more appropriate to place the ceiling of expenditure as a percentage of GDP. Let me first say that Members of the DeSUS fully agree with the proposalers' statement that there is still economic and financial uncertainty in the world. However, we cannot agree with the claim that financial and social insecurity is increasing in Slovenia. We recognize that this uncertainty actually exists in our country, but we cannot simply say that it is increasing. We cannot go beyond the proposaler's observation that the reason for such an economic, financial and social situation is the underestimation of the crisis, the irresponsibility, self-confidence and arrogance of key people in the government. We really can't say that. Indeed, it is true that the Government could change certain measures more quickly and possibly change certain measures differently. We can also attach to the proposaler's claim that she is indeed facing a budgetary deficit and an increase in public debt. However, the government is also not quite passive and does not stand quite at the side. The government has set up an instrument or fiscal rule that sets the ceiling for public expenditure for the current year and for the next three years, so that the first two years are fixed and the second two are indicative. The fiscal consolidation strategy is also based on a gradual reduction in public financial expenditure, rationalisation and efficiency. But we fear for its effectiveness. In order to reduce the country's deficit below 3 % of GDP by 2013, in line with the recommendations of the Council of the European Union, it is preferable to consolidate through expenditure measures. Undoubtedly, the latter will require considerable fiscal effort. There is also no doubt that government measures to tighten the belt are distasteful, painful, but certain. Let me conclude, Members of the DeSUS Group will decide on our own conscience.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u26	Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Finance! Madam Secretary of State said that the bill we are talking about has been removed from the context of the second law and should not be adopted as such. Of course we have to say it is, but it's not the only one, not by accident. We have had some of these in the last month when we have written laws on individual cases and taken them out of the context of other laws. What is more important is what this law seeks to achieve. This year, Slovenia re-borrowed €3 billion, of which it is expected to pay back a billion and remain with a debt of €2 billion. In Slovenia, we spend almost €4 billion per year on pensions, €4 billion on civil servants' salaries and €2 billion on social transfers. Debt Slovenia is currently 45% of the gross social product, which is also the Strategic Council's commitment, and this is information that I could say is still bearable and moderate at this time. And thank God that's true. Each Slovenian is in charge of EUR 6,700. It is true that, for example, the Austrians are in debt – 22 000 euros is owed to one Austrian – but of course this is unmatched according to results and according to other parameters. In Slovenia, €220 million should be saved each year in pensions, wages and transfers. Every year. The following information is also worrying that – I say that you will know that the opposition also takes into account all the facts that burden the country and that I know that what causes hard work to the Government – 26% is more old-age pensions and only 5% are paid, and that is also a very harsh data. However, according to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party – we also watch and listen and read the opinions of recognised economists – we in the Slovenian National Party agree with Dr Mencinger's opinion that the problem of Slovenia is not so much in external debt as in the net indebtedness of banks, residents and businesses abroad. We heard a comparison of the EUR 0 billion in 2005 in 2008, after three years, of net debt of 10 billion in three years, from 0 to 10 billion in three years. And how it happened, that's cancer, and here we are dead. The purchase of securities from all sides – from major economists, managers of modern so-called so-called securities, purchase of virtual wealth, the reality of the value market, the fall in value and now we are where we are – 10 billion net losses. The difference between claims and liabilities, so-called net indebtedness, is the most worrying information. In our own words, we spend 2 billion too much in Slovenia, that is, more than we can do, and these two billion beat us up and will beat us in advance. Our budget deficit is 5.5% and it is difficult to doubt or doubt that it will be repaired, hard to hope, we want, but it will be difficult. Experts ’ opinions differ as to whether the problem is on the supply side or on the savings side or on the demand side. I agree with Dr. Mencinger, who is a reality in life – you're saving on the worse. So the problem is on the demand side, the demand for economic theory is supposed to trigger new production and also harmonise the price ratios of profits, and so on, if not, we come back to the moment of purchase of securities, the formation of virtual wealth, the fall in value. And then we're back to where we were. This is the most dangerous cycle for us. Unfortunately, problems are solved automatically by those economists who are lucky and create some numbers, statistics that are good for Slovenia. Unfortunately, the government has no merit at all in this regard, I say unfortunately, but it does not, thanks only to the economic activities of companies that are fortunate. These are all the data we have to worry about. Indeed, we can say that, according to some data, we are still very good, we have an average debt of 60% in Europe, and even more, we have 45% of gross social product, but we must not be comforted by it. We must do this as stated in this bill! I know that these data are recorded in various strategies, and this data and recommendations have been made by the Fiscal Council, which we have in this Slovenia, and it is right to respect, but these are the data that are recorded in the report of the Fiscal Council, in the strategy of one, in the strategy of the other, in the strategy of the third, and they are taken into account by no one, because they are obviously not binding. In order to be binding, according to the Slovenian National Party, the proposer drafted this law in six articles, which obliges the State in its Article 2 to avoid spending exceeding 43% of the gross domestic product which in Article 4 undertakes to be a maximum of 45% of the gross social product in 2012 and then for a percentage less; these are some figures written in the form of a certain law only and only so that we have some commitment and of course we respect this commitment – all of us, I say, all of us. For this reason, from this moral support and from the desire to make this commitment legal and legitimate, and that we should then act on it, so that we can climb to the first green branch that will hold us back, we will support the proposal of this law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Ljubo Germič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Say good-bye to everyone again! At the LDS, we have already examined the law on public financial liability, which is now again under review before it was originally introduced, because we are once again finding that it has well-established objectives from a public financial point of view, but it cannot be implemented in practice. The biggest flaw in the law is that, given the gross social product, it determines the expenditure of the wider sector of the country, but it does not offer effective solutions how to do this in practice. As well as the bill's proponents themselves know, a large part of the budget is conditional on legal obligations and it is not possible to implement, directly, by means of a rebalancing, measures in this and next year to achieve legally defined objectives, namely that the wider country's expenditure would reach or not exceed 45% and 44% of GDP. In general, it is worth mentioning the fact that the country's broader expenditure in 2009 and 2010 amounted to around 49% of GDP and the same percentage is foreseen for 2011. From this point of view, and from the extent to which the rights are granted, how much the expenditure is lawfully conditional, this law is more than just a blinding maneuver. Otherwise, it must be said that, in the previous attempt to adopt this law, the applicants have stated that a reform of social transfers is necessary. This time it was omitted, but they implicitly indicate the problem. Of course, if we think back on the debate a few days ago regarding the treatment of the exercise of rights from public funds, it also shows that the applicants are aware of the problem and, of course, they do not suggest solutions. Even at the LDS Club, we agree that it is necessary to cut into the scope of the allocation arrangements, but this needs to be done carefully and accurately. Some measures in this area, thanks to Minister Svetlik, are already being implemented and mean that the social security system will become more transparent and fairer. In doing so, it should be stressed that the Government is seeking to reduce the expenditure of the state budget by introducing structural reforms that can stabilise public finances in the long run. But to support these measures there is no support for the greater part of the opposition. As we have warned the last time, in the LDS, we would like to point out once again that the logic of budget preparation should be further modified or the development of a methodology for the preparation of targeted or development-oriented budgets should be accelerated. In the budget itself, especially with poor revenues, we have very little room for manoeuvre to implement the country's real priorities. Therefore, we believe that in the coming years it is necessary to move faster towards making budgets more flexible and more responsive in view of the situation in the domestic and global economies. In this way, we could also be able to identify more quickly what is developmental and what is undevelopmental and thus set priorities. We have mentioned earlier that it is necessary to state, with the intended objectives, how we will implement the law in practice and where we will take the means to achieve the legally-written objectives. We know where it can be taken if we do not want to stop the already fragmented development or investment potential. These are public sector salaries, social transfers and pensions. If the applicants wish to take a proper and systematic approach to such implementation of the proposed law, they should also introduce package legislation into the procedure or at least tell them which so-called indevelopment items they have in mind and where they will cut, and at the same time tell them how they will harmonise with the social partners. Of course, there are no such answers in the proposal. At the LDS Club, we are aware that it will soon be necessary to cut into public consumption, as life through its own abilities does not work even on the middle hand, let alone on the long run. And of course, debt indefinitely cannot be the perspective of this country, because we cannot bear the burden of the present generations to generations to come. On the one hand, the easiest thing to do in the six articles is to write down what the goals are, and commit the government to do so. On the other hand, it is illusory to expect that the law would be adopted to require the Government to take measures within thirty days, which must also be coordinated between the social partners, and then again in the National Assembly by the applicants, to listen to how the legislative proposals are not harmonised between the social partners and therefore that the laws will not receive support. As we said last time, it's a pure hypocrisy, not to say frivolity. At the LDS, we are still well aware that fiscal stability is the foundation of the long-term, successful development of the country, and we therefore agree with the applicants that strong discipline is needed in this area. However, since we believe that the law is not adequately prepared or provides for feasible solutions and is not in line with the rest of the public financial legislation, we feel that the law is not suitable for further consideration. The next time the applicants introduce the same law, we call on them to add an article to indicate precisely on which items they anticipate such a radical reduction – according to their own calculations for more than a billion euros in 2011, which means 10% of the current budget. That's the only way we're gonna tell Bob Bob and start talking. At the same time, they assessed the seriousness of the proposed legislative initiatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Andrej Magajn. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u30	Honorable representative of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed law aims to limit public consumption and the country's indebtedness. That's positive. Unrealised or realised or projected budget deficits in 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012 put the stability of public finances at some risk, and the applicant is said to be seriously at risk. This law is intended to limit expenditure from the wider sector of the country to 45 % of gross social product in 2011 and, with each coming year, expenditure will be reduced by one percentage point, so that in 2013 and in subsequent years the general public sector will achieve expenditure of up to 43 % of gross social product. The objectives are positive, but as real as they are on some items, the ministry will say – it has already replied and this law does not support – to the parliamentary group. We are also skeptical that this can also be achieved with such administrative constraints. However, I am joining, and we will also decide after further discussion and in the vote. The warnings, in fact, go in the right direction of Dr. Fran Štiblar's warnings, Jana Opletnik and the repeatedly mentioned Jozet Mencinger, who are talking about internal debt – we are talking about net ten billion – by individuals, businesses, banks. This internal debt in correlation with external debt is not sufficiently analysed and justified and I think that these two items should be seen simultaneously and, on the basis of this, in fact, assessed the State's indebtedness. Even more alarming is the continued decline in the real sector, industrial production. This is precisely what Vladimir Markovčič writes in his contribution. He says, I quote: "The government ensures that, in total, production and export growth have already reached almost 2%, which means, in reality, at least 3.6% of the inflation or grading of the euro, a further decline, in fact, of industrial production." The country that collects taxes for its survival also has revenue from trade taxes, but it must be stressed that trade does not generate new value – it is about creating new value and falling, as I said, of the real sector, these are the key problems of Slovenia – but trade only increases the price of existing goods and thus leads to income for the operator of commercial activities, as the quantity and value of goods remains unchanged and its price increases. Of course, we cannot print the money, which is right, but due to the loss of monetary autonomy, we have been in a situation where imports steadily increased and our own production declined and continued decline, that often unnecessary imports were leaving the country permanently more and more money, while at the same time the arrival of money on the basis of our exports was decreasing each year. If this does not change, we cannot expect to be able to limit budgetary spending. In short, if we forget about the enormous debt abroad, what the current government has been doing for two years just to survive the state budget, today we have an enormous deficit in goods called money throughout Slovenia. This deficit is estimated to be minimal to €16 billion and, according to other estimates, much more likely to be €24 billion. This is due to abnormally high imports of often unnecessary food, textile and PVC products, which, by the way, has also led to the destruction of a large part of domestic agricultural production – we have already talked about this in previous meetings. The destruction of industrial production, which has not been given the opportunity to adapt to demanding markets, is not worth losing words at all. I'll point it out again. If we continue to have a trend in the loss of the real sector in Slovenia, I do not know how we will patch up the budget. Let's even think about it. The policy of the International Monetary Fund and the World Trade Organisation is geared towards assistance, but this in the long term represents the dependence and deterioration of the real sector of the countries providing aid. Slovenian independence will only be established and maintained by preserving our real sector.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Matevž Frangež. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u32	Respected and respected! We are again meeting with the Public Responsibility Act, which the Slovenian Democratic Party proposes to shift the amount of public debt to 45 % of gross domestic product. That's the goal we share. And if the proponent in the introduction accompanied this law by saying that the health of public finances, the management of the public financial situation, is not enough just to speak, but something has to be done, in fact, this law is just an expression of talk about a more restrictive public financial policy. It's not that simple. If this is just about what we write in a law with which we want to demonstrate our public financial responsibility, then we are the first to put this number a little lower – but it is not that simple. In the introduction, it was pointed out what was in fact leading the applicants to propose this law. They mentioned an increase in the deficit, an increase in the indebtedness of the wider sector of the country during the term of office of this government. Of course, these numbers, if strictly isolated, cannot be contested, but the reasons behind this need to be examined. First of all, this is a reduction in revenue. A reduction in the revenue of the State budget was adopted by the previous government without ensuring an adequate reduction of expenditure. It has reduced revenue and consumption has remained the same at systemic level. Please remember that we had to correct the State budget when adopting the 2009 budget rebalancing in order to balance the revenue outflows caused by the measures of the previous government. Finally, in view of this difference resulting from the increase in expenditure due to the pre-election promises of the previous government, on the other hand, the reduction of revenue due to the new tax policy should be noted that this was the basis for the growth of the country's indebtedness, the increase in the deficit, as well as the radical increase in our country's gross external debt, the concrete and mainly carried out in another period, not after November 2008. If the Social Democrats are pleased to take responsibility for something, it is for the fact that after Slovenia has fallen into the economic crisis, that we have also tried and successfully reduced social distress through public financial measures, which could result in the country sitting at the crossroads and not adequately increasing social transfers. How can our public funding objectives be achieved? Let me first say that the health of public finances is extremely important for us; this is what we are talking about and, in the form of concrete measures, on various occasions, we are stressing in this national assembly at all times, not only this mandate, but also otherwise. They ensure the stability of the macroeconomic environment, and it is not true that public finances are not something to be taken care of by each and every one of us, not only in this national assembly but also in the country. The health and stability of public finances has a direct impact on how our economy can recover, what opportunities our population has to finance its needs. Public finances are therefore our basic common infrastructure, which we are all jointly responsible for. The fiscal council followed the long-term health aspects of our public finances with warnings in its annual report – if I can squeeze them into three points – and drew attention to the need to increase gross domestic product, increase income and reduce expenditure. This force of simple mathematics is, of course, stopped at the point of why these economic recovery signals to which Slovenia is witnessing are not stronger today if our key external markets record higher growth. The answer may also be that today the Slovenian economy is in over-indebted and unable to finance this recovery, it cannot finance it to become more active and ambitious in the path of growth. And by the way, when did this gross external debt start? This country took 15 years of independence to raise a gross external debt of EUR 15 billion, and then only 4 years, one mandate — guess which governments — to increase the gross external debt to EUR 40 billion. And because of this great debt, today the economy is giving so much weaker signs of its recovery. Is it not a public financial responsibility – but can the Slovenian Democratic Party come to this national assembly 15 more times with this bill? For example, a public responsibility is not that at a time when you are doing well, you do not think of a time when you may be doing worse, and that at a time when you have more than enough income, you do not put some of these income aside so that you can spend a bad time. Public financial responsibility is not that you do not ensure an adequate balance on the expenditure side in the event of a reduction, a planned reduction in public financial revenues. Finally, public responsibility is not that in planning the public sector's wage reform, you are wrong about 400 million and the effects of the pay reform are not 400 million euros, as envisaged, but are doubling – 800 million. Finally, public financial responsibility is not a number of good-natured proposals, with which the biggest opposition party is more ambitious to prove the inability of the current government, have regularly burdened this national assembly. And what were these alternative proposals? The proposals are mainly based on an additional reduction in taxes. This in itself is the goal that I will immediately sign if there is a real basis for us to achieve the other objectives of our public financial policy: to give people security, to give those of us who are weak, adequate social transfers, to cover a hole in the pension register, to provide accessible health care, education and other public services. To a lesser extent, however, these proposals were based, of course, on a reduction in expenditure. The overall impact of the deficit increase only after the third SDS anti-crisis package was measured to EUR 1.7 billion. The combined impact of SDS measures with proposals for laws that are not taken into account in the third package of measures is €1.9 billion. This should take into account the necessary resources for large infrastructure projects and the effects of the introduction of landscapes, as proposed by the SDS. This would double Slovenia's deficit. From 6% of gross domestic product in 2009 to 11.6% of gross domestic product, which means that they would have a deficit higher than Portugal and slightly lower than Greece. As a result, Slovenia’s level of funding or borrowing of 10-year bonds would eventually increase to Portugal’s level, and this would have significantly higher, if not devastating, consequences for public finances. What, though, is public financial responsibility? It is a public responsibility to support and propose measures that regulate order in this country. Let's say measures designed to capture more of our gray economy in official data – not only for the health of public finances, but also to strengthen order and competitiveness in the market. And that those who work "by the regals" will no longer have to blush because they are uncompetitive compared to those who are "screeching". It is a public responsibility to take into account the wider macroeconomic environment in which Slovenia is located and to try to understand the problems of the partners with whom you are in good and bad, and to help them get out of their problems, because deepening their problems on the basis of our stability. Finally, it is publicly responsible to go to a referendum on 5 June and vote in favour of pension reform. The failure to implement the pension reform would require additional reductions in government expenditure of around EUR 300 million per year, in addition to all envisaged austerity measures. Of these, €220 million per year or 0.6% of GDP falls away from the necessary annual savings to achieve the medium-term public funding target. This is a necessary savings in order to be able to pay pensions under the applicable legislation in the future. This is not a once-in-a-lifetime savings requirement, but this means additional savings needed every year. At least EUR 50 million per year is allocated to the necessary savings in other public financial expenditure, which would result from a higher increase in the number of pensioners when the new pension system is not in place. Finally, at least EUR 30 million per year or a tenth of GDP represents the higher cost of servicing the country's debt due to a poor rating, which we have been reminded of for two years in a row by international institutions that are preparing credit ratings for Slovenia. Fixing the amount of public debt without legal limitation of expenditure makes no sense in view of the fact that the budget is 80 % fixed by legal obligations. Together, 61% of the consolidated public funding balance is allocated to public servants' salaries, pensions and social transfers. Therefore, of the figures included in the draft Public Finance Act, which is already the subject of public debate and which also limits the level of public debt to 45 % of gross domestic product, it is more important that the Government has already decided and established a medium-term public financial framework for Slovenia, whereby the consolidation of public finances takes place during the course of one economic cycle, i.e. within six to eight years, by the end of 2013, the actual public financial deficit falls below 3 % of gross domestic product by the end of 2015. In doing so, it should be noted that Slovenia has already introduced a fiscal rule in 2010 by which the Government has set a ceiling for public expenditure for the current year as well as for the next three years. Social Democrats also this time, with the basic objective of the Public Finance Responsibility Act, which can be attracted to them, but which realizes this objective on the wrong assumptions, including the isolated consideration of macroeconomic data without the ability to look at these factors and circumstances more broadly – they must be taken into account because the correct diagnosis of treatment is crucial – and not least because the law methodologically fails to resolve and implement this objective, the Social Democrats, therefore, in the new attempt of the Law on Public Financial Responsibility, as an expression of our public financial responsibility, will not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Zvonko Černač. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u34	Thank you very much and very much to all present! We introduced a similar law in the Slovenian Democratic Party last year. At that time, at the time of the consideration of September 29th on the government side, there was a substantial wider composition, and today, with all due respect to those present, I missed two professors sitting in the government, and I was counting on today to be deprived of a professor's lecture with many empty words that have no effect, with a lot of what in practice means nothing. And I can see that after what we just heard, I can calm down. The professors were an appropriate substitute in the benches of this National Assembly, many words, even missed, few acts, feeling that some live in a virtual world and that you have no sense of reality. "The law cannot be implemented" was heard by one of your representatives. Of course not, this government is certainly not capable of implementing it, but this government is not. And we will have to ask ourselves as long as we agree in this country that nothing can be done just because some are convinced or convinced of their right and their own inefficiency, which they want to blur by selling empty blisters. What does this law actually talk about? He's talking about a healthy farm of brains, and I think it's right that we talk about each other in such a way that you'll all understand what he's talking about. Every farmer knows you can only spend as much as you create. And if he starts to get in debt, you can't get in charge of more than the cows in the barn, because they give milk. That's where the income comes from. If there are no cows, if they have to be sold to pay the debt, then there is no milk and no income. It is so simple, ladies and gentlemen, that, and here we could conclude our position today and say: It is high time for you to be sober and yet accept this law, and because you rule, do what this law requires – reduce the public spending and the debt that this entails cannot be done by the opposition." We would be happy to do so, but we cannot do so because we do not have instruments of governance in our hands. For the second time, or I don't know how many times, we're already putting you on a table a law that will allow you to have a mechanism through which you can reach the goal that you, as you say yourself, have set. You can't achieve this goal with the so-called pension reform. You wrote the effects of it in your own documents to 0.1 GDP, which means around 35 million euros a year, with Kadu being told that only 50 million were enough to put in this pension box – he spent 100 million all the years before, and now only 50. Why? When this marriage was on the table last year, we listened to something similar as we are hearing today, or if I ignore a few hours of lectures by two ministers, we heard somehow, "the government is already doing what you're proposing, it might be ok, but there are no appropriate mechanisms for implementing this law," and so on, and at the same time after you've rejected all of this, it almost doesn't take a day for us not to listen to your President, Mr. Pahor, as he invites us, but let us propose solutions, and let us put something on the table, and how, however, this breakthrough that is coming, we resolve. I don't know if anyone in this story is deaf or living in some virtual world and doesn't hear what's going on around him. This is not the only law proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party in the light of the public financial stability and reduction of the indebtedness of the Republic of Slovenia. It is also a highlight of all the measures that need to be taken in order to achieve this objective and to achieve this outcome all together. In a way, this law is the one that solves the pension fund problem, this law is the one. The so-called pension reform will not save anything, not in the way it is now set up. In addition to tackling public spending and rationalisation, there is also something else to be done in other areas. Just limiting spending where it is not necessary is not enough, it is probably necessary to do something about increasing income, and every simple farmer also knows that. And these measures have also been lacking in all of this period, almost three years, to date – measures to promote the economy, to create new jobs. It would have been enough to simplify the country's debirocratisation. Last time you listened to the problems that many businesses and individuals face because of the enormous bureaucracy and procedures that would bring new inflows and new jobs, because of this strong red tape and intertwinedness they stand and cannot realize what would bring new income and new, fresh money to create new jobs. These are measures that are relatively simple and for which we do not need professors with high knowledge. In their planning and implementation we need people who work on the market every day and know what needs to be done, and we need to listen to them, and what they expect to do. What is the situation today regarding public finances? Since 2008, approximately €2 billion has been running out of state operations every year. You were saying that everything was hyper in 2008, that there was too much investment, too much overheating, but the country was spending about 8 billion at the time, and there were about that many inflows. Now it consumes about 10 billion, and the tides are smaller than then, not even 8 billion of them. Something's wrong with that logic. It would have been time for the three - year period when the deficit almost doubled or more than doubled, who asked, while such a condition could still be maintained. The payments increased by more than a quarter during the period of this government. Interest costs increased by almost a hundred percent during this government period, and they almost doubled. The number of bankruptcys has doubled. More than doubled was the number of legal persons who are ineligible who have difficulties with payments. More than doubled the number of unemployed, the competitiveness of businesses has been eliminated. The uncertainty of the banking system has increased. This government treats property uneconomically, showing as much depth as possible in the largest state bank, where it is unlikely that only a few know how deep the hole is. For these reasons, speaking only to the economic and financial crisis that took place in 2008-2009 is not justified, of course, because the decline in economic growth in our country is once again greater than the average of the European Union countries facing the same effects of the crisis on the economy as Slovenia has. However, of course, many countries have taken timely and appropriate measures and the results here. And thank God, some also have an impact on our economy, especially the part that is export-oriented. For this reason, Slovenia does not have any more problems if it did have them, if it were only dependent on the measures taken by the current government. Thank God they did something for us and our neighbors. Thus, the fundamental reason for this situation is the underestimation of the economic and financial crisis, the irresponsibility, the self-confidence and arrogance of key people in the government. Anti-crisis measures, which were taken for these reasons, were too late. Most of them were misdirected and therefore did not have positive effects. The worst situation is in the area of state finances, particularly in the area of debt and spending of budgetary money, which is uncontrolled, chaotic. We have also heard a lot about this in this national assembly, and we have been faced with schemes that show that we are still not spending as much as we need, but as much as we are planning. And if the plan has to be fulfilled, it has been wasted in recent months — whether it is needed or not. It's chaos. In this situation, in general, Slovenia has been facing this situation for the last three years. The financial policy of the country is not based on pre-planned measures to ensure stability, but on ad hoc daily measures that increase financial risks. Such management of the financial policy of the State poses a threat to the stability of public or state finances, is irresponsible to citizens and citizens as well as to the European Union of which Slovenia is a member. Unfortunately, even after almost three years of operation of this government in the field of public or state finances, there are no measures to halt this chaos and create order. For this reason, it is essential to first limit the unbridled and uncritical indebtedness of the Pahor government and to ensure rationalisation in the public administration and in the public sector as a whole. In doing so, the current government also rightly asks how the government will meet the commitments of the Euro Stability Pact, where European leaders have formally committed themselves to achieving four fundamental objectives: promoting competitiveness, promoting employment, further contributing to the sustainability of public finances and strengthening financial stability. And I'm not banalising, look, but of all this, the only thing that this government wants to sell as a magic wand to solve all the problems, the so-called pension reform, whose effect is practically null and void in the short term – in terms of ensuring the stability of public finances. The proposals and everything that has been prepared by the current government in this regard are rather loose, soft, mostly a repetition of the copy-paste method from previous documents, without adequate measures with objectives, carriers and deadlines for their implementation. As a result, in our proposals to the Government, we have repeatedly proposed that this public spending should finally be linked to what has been created, i.e. a gross domestic product, and thus prevent the erosion of the public finances that we have witnessed in the last three years. The government has, of course, always – and has not failed to do so today – to these proposals has been defined as negative, negative, with an excuse that this proposal is not good, that it is not assigned, that it is weak and that, even if it was adopted, it cannot be implemented, which of course it does not. The adoption of this law would force the Government to enforce it and would force it to take the right measures to manage the budgetary deficit and to reduce unnecessary, hypernormalised state spending. It is well known that during this crisis, gross domestic product has been reduced by almost a tenth, which is a large drop and it will take several years for us to get to where we were once again. Thus, the law in this title and because of the situation in which we are concerned lays down restrictions on public spending and the limitation of State debt in such a way that the expenditure of the wider sector of the country, which is already approaching 50 per cent, is limited to a maximum of 43 per cent gradually by 2013. And of course, the law provides for a protector not to interfere with development items, not with investment and development, but only with non-development projects. To put it simply, it is necessary to limit the costs and the non-productive part of the consumption. Of course, we have been given the impressions that we are proposing something, but we do not say how to do it, that it is more of a populist law — of course, this is not true. I have already said that so far we have repeatedly said how, in what way, the measures and the deadlines within which this spending can be limited, but this opposition cannot do so, can only be done by the Government or the government. We also said how we see an increase in revenue, in what way, but it is not unknown that we are conceptually not agreeing at a point where we believe that this can be achieved by decommissioning the economy and reducing the burden, but you do not see this path and believe that the way to achieving this goal is to increase taxes. Clearly, then, the government does not listen to us, does not want to listen to us. Instead of rationalisation, public spending is increasing and wealthier, the number of employees in the state administration is increasing, which is unprecedented. Statistics say that this administrative and bureaucratic part, of which there is no added value, is being strengthened. Each citizen is already in charge of almost EUR 8 000, and at the end of this term, the state, the Slovenian state, will be in charge of approximately as much as the former state, which means that each of us will be in charge of 10 times as much as he was in charge of the former country. If these aren't numbers that should make us real and sober, then I don't know what else to say in this direction, and I think it's high time for the Government to stop acting irresponsiblely in its actions – instead of limiting these costs and stopping setting up a number of new offices, a number of new agencies, in short, a number of institutions that don't give any added value, but they are increasing expenditure, they are doing the opposite. All these institutions increase costs, there is no impact, confusion, disorder and efficiency. Of course, Pahor’s government would have saved much by acting more economically. It is more economical to take into account a healthy farm of intelligence and sound farming logic and to deal responsibly with the property it has. And don't mind, I'm going to re-explain this famous Falcon case, because it's kind of a symbolic example of showing this inefficiency of the current government. It's been on this plane for over two years. The costs of millions of euros are covered by the state budget, from public finances. Not to mention the management of our common assets, the better management of what this country has imposed on many companies and banks. This government would greatly save if it were to maximise the cost per budget consumer. Instead, new premises are rented because the officials are getting more and in one case the government is even so good that it pays off through renting to the private. This government would save a lot of money by rehabilitating or repairing Dubios in the largest New LB; instead, it has recapitalised it with almost 250 million euros from public finances. This government would save a lot of money if it were to manage the system called the Slovenian Railway more effectively; instead, we will witness the rehabilitation of these railways from the taxpayer's money. Over 100 million Euros will be paid by taxpayers for measures that would not be necessary in the last two years in a different economy and in a different approach, because there was a way to achieve the effect that was put in place at the beginning but was prevented by an amateur approach to regulating this project. So, ladies and gentlemen, the government does not take into account the importance of its conduct, and that is that what we can use in the public sector and in the public administration, depending on what the economy creates. And that's the content of our law. As a result, its rejection by the government is illogical, unfounded, especially in a situation where the government should show a serious purpose in saving, and first of all, it should clean up the various clienteleistic rentals of premises that it does not need because it was not the interests of the State, but for the interests of individuals and all other jobs that do not contribute to more efficient and more cost-effective governance of the country. At the table, this government should clean up various Falcons and establish new unnecessary agencies and parastatal institutions, and ensure responsible governance of the country. Today, this government behaves roughly like the "economist" in the real anecdotes when asked when millions of bonds were issued: "Where will interest be paid for these bonds, where is the source for the repayment of these interest?" And he freely replied, "No problem, we will issue new bonds to pay off the interest." In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we want to help the Government manage public spending and rehabilitate public finances through this law. The adoption of this law would be a clear indication that the Government of the Restriction on Excessive Consumption has reached the right end and will first cut itself off in the face of unnecessary and excessive expenditure. The signal that the Government would send to the public through more efficient work and better public resource management would facilitate coordination with the social partners, a stronger and cheaper state would relieve the economy, in short, the effects would be positive for all. The rejection of this law, however, means that the Government is still unaware of the seriousness of the situation, that it is not prepared to do anything about their rehabilitation and stabilisation and that it wants to bear the burden of responsibility for the situation. That is why the responsibility of this government is even greater because it is this government and no one else who has not faced the changed situation in our country in a timely and responsible manner. Instead of taking advantage of this situation to rationalise the transformation of the public sector into an efficient and rational service for citizens, on the one hand, it has allowed additional employment in the most difficult circumstances, establishes new para-national institutions, has done nothing to improve the cost-effective and rational functioning of public services, has done nothing to remedy the banking system and, on the other hand, has somehow excluded social dialogue in addressing important strategic issues on which the further development of our country depends. The key to stabilising public finances is the limitation of public spending and the limitation of indebtedness while increasing inflows to the state budget, which is why this law is also a guarantee for the stability of the pension fund. We do not need any quasi-retirement reform, but responsible governance with our common assets and responsible governance with the country. We should have adopted this law last year. We will support this law in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Slovenia's debt amounted to almost €8 billion in 2007, and the estimate for this year's end of the year is to jump to €13.7 billion. Of course, this debt does not include State guarantees that can increase this debt at any moment. Indeed, there is economic and financial uncertainty and crisis in the world and Slovenia since the end of 2008. The countries responded differently to the crisis, but all the measures pursued two main objectives: to preserve social peace on the one hand and to promote the economy, to increase competitiveness in the economy on the other. Slovenia has unfortunately failed this mature exam. Although we have taken a lot over the last three years, we can also say effective measures to put out the social fire, which has preserved social well-being and peace in Slovenia, but at this point it is necessary to ask at whose expense or who will pay the price of the fire. Let's take a look at the account that's already on display. In 2009, 2010 and 2011, we were in charge of a good EUR 5 billion for that purpose. Unfortunately, most of this money has been spent on social transfers, but almost nothing has been invested in our future. For many years we will pay the bill for the benevolent three years of the current government. What have we done in the area of economic promotion? Without exaggeration I can say, fighting a little – we all shouted: opposition, economists, their representative associations, experts, economists and others, so unfortunately we are where we are. On the competitiveness scale, they grew up to be one city. From 59 countries, we grew from 52nd city to 51st place. We can’t exactly boast about this. Foreign companies are avoiding us and domestic companies are fleeing abroad. The competitiveness of countries is measured by what the state offers to the economy, employment, the business environment in these countries. Of course, time is extremely important for entrepreneurs. With us, we have over 2,000 outstanding deposits with the state authority, on which each economy depends on investment and each start-up of economic activity. Given the nature of the cases, this means that 30% of the applications after the deadline in which they should already be decided remain unresolved; this is only a sample example of the relationship between the State and the state apparatus, red tape to our future. The excessive will to improve the economic situation does not show this government. Otherwise you're all together, unfortunately, we can't explain. Apparently, he doesn't have the will, the will, or the power to limit his spending. Of course, it is easier to maintain social peace at the expense of future generations and governments. In fact, the country specializes in using so easily, as much as it thinks it needs. There are no limits, but even less, the responsibilities to prevent this immense madness of daily debt. A daily Slovenian state owes EUR 5.5 million. Where that leads, I don't know. Certainly not in the right direction. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support this bill because we believe that it is necessary for the State and every government, no matter what color it is, to set clear and responsible limits on the indebtedness of our country. Therefore, because we ourselves are not so responsible for our future, our children and grandchildren, we think that it is necessary to write down such restrictions in a binding form so that someone can be held accountable for their violations. In this content of the bill, at least politically, unfortunately, there is no other way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u37	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. The word is "Cvetka Zalokar Orazem." [[She's not here.]] Andrej Magajna has the word to prepare Franco Juri and Breda Pecan. Mr. Magaina.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u38	On the one hand, we have a desire to limit public spending. This is likely not to be prescribed administratively in the exact percentages and the objective is positive, certainly. Concerned, as has already been pointed out several times today, is the decline in real sector production, the decline in GDP, the decline in a decade in recent times. Other information that is also very worrying: debt, already calculated per day, EUR 5.5 million. Of course, the solutions are two or two strategies: either increase production, increase exports and obtain the necessary funds for the economy and indirectly for the budget, or reduce budget costs. We'll both have to. However, cost cuts may also have an insidious impact on the social standard. Linearly, we can say: education, health care, pension allowance will be reduced by so much and so many percent. But what does this mean for the lives of citizens? This depends not only on the net salary each receives or the form of aid, but on the social standard. We forget that this is also part of the quality of our lives. Reducing costs yes, when it comes to irrational costs, to rationalising public services. But when it comes to cutting programs, poor health care, bad education, bad transportation, we probably don't want that. In my presentation of the Group's position, I drew attention to the drastic decline in the real sector. In these years, the country has not been able, despite retaining a relative standard, to retain social transfers, but failed to help the economy in the sense that production would rise so that the real sector would remain and develop. Zvonko Černač has previously warned, plastic, "if we don't produce, if we don't sell, there will be no budget inflows". Actually, here's the origin of everything. Debt alone – yes, if it is only about preserving social peace, it will not help the economy. If this debt were meant to grow the economy, there would be something else. But statistics speak differently. Despite two percentage points of economic growth and production, this is somehow eliminated by inflation alone. How's it going? We don't know. In fact, we are in a situation where, in fact, we are solving the fact that we are only going to lower costs and the revenue side is failing from year to year. And this is the fate of all these small economies, which then lean on the generous assistance of the International Monetary Fund and the World Trade Organization, but this aid, as I have already said, means long-term dependence and, consequently, the further decline of the real sector and the continuous cycle of debt. We've seen for ourselves what's going on with these countries. Nor did the constant influx of money save Greece. The scenario, they say, is far from Greece and the question is how far away it is. Unless we preserve the real sector, unless the country leads a different economic policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak as a proponent. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u40	Dear President! As a proposaler, I just need to clarify some of the points or to give some answers in relation to the introductory transfers on behalf of the parliamentary groups, because apparently some do not really understand this initiative of the Slovenian Democratic Party or this Law on Public Financial Responsibility. Parliament is not a Government and Parliament does not have the power to take concrete measures and implement them only, but it can set certain limits, certain frameworks, and our proposal to limit the expenditure of the State would be parallel to the proposal now being circulated in government corridors or in the air, which is to limit the amount of public debt to 45 % of gross domestic product by law. That's a framework, too. This too is a limit, and it is, of course, a praiseworthy limit if we can reach it or if we have not already exceeded it. Indeed, we note that the Government is extremely inefficient when we talk about the revenue of the state budget or other public finances. In fact, they stagnate or are, I would say, insurmountable and do not represent an opportunity to balance the budget in the future or to get close to that balance. It is not to see a significant increase in economic activity, in fact, tax revenues are more or less unpredictable after the data we have at last year's level, if not lower, and this part, i.e. the country's balance sheet, is more or less unpredictable to be counted on in the balance sheet or in the reduction of deficits and consequently public debt. This is also because, as the predecessors have already found, because in fact the Government does not have adequate responses to the economic stagnation, there are no new jobs, especially in production, although some are actually offered and no state would stand, nothing would cost the budget. I'm going to mention one more investment that could happen, and it's not happening, and no one knows why. Nobody knows why. It would probably stimulate the national economy. I'm talking about building a landfill of low and medium-level radioactive waste. We've adopted, the government has adopted a regulation and established a location, that is to say, we have a state space plan. The investment is worth 150 million euros. It's not about change, so it's an important investment. In the law adopted by this Parliament, we have laid down that the landfill must be built by 2013. We got it all. We have money that is not budget money, and we have a location, and we finally have a very strong need for the nuclear power plant itself to get rid of it in its yard of a temporary landfill. But the investment doesn't start. And we've been waiting for two years. No one knows why. No one in this country can explain to me why this investment is not being made. It is also a matter of work and equipment which could significantly improve economic activity in this country. I would hire a lot of people, especially in the construction sector, which is now in a jam. Your Honor, so some of the answers are in your hand, even as far as this revenue side is concerned, but you can't see them. But let's leave this part, I agree with you, the solution to this deficit and this accelerated debt is on both sides – on the income side by creating new jobs and saving the country, and of course, when we talk about saving, of course, this spending part is also. And since we see that the Government is extremely inefficient, as far as income work is concerned, it also does not intend to increase taxes, as it says, of course it is necessary to do so in terms of expenditure, it is necessary to reduce these, simply put. I don't know how that's not clear. Compare your, say, family budgets or the family budgets of the average family, the three-member family – if this family has 10,000 euros of annual expenditure and 8 000 euros of annual income, it has to take these 2,000 euros somewhere. For a while, he can still be in debt, set up the apartment he has, or I don't know what, but after a while, the banks don't give out any more credit, because there's nothing to make a bet. Something needs to be done, and if it is not possible to get another job, a better job, a new job, any job, small job, or any kind of job, something needs to be done at the expense. Also in spasms or in unpopular areas, such as, say, a break in vacations or some trips or some improvements and so on. It's just a simple logic of the economy. I don't know if it's clear to you here. So we're not proposing anything else; we're proposing because we haven't been able to do anything in a row for three years at the expense of finally starting something. There is nothing we can do about income, and I don't know how it makes sense that we have to balance public finances. And if we look at the chronology of the creation of this public debt and, by the way, here in response to some who have spoken, if we are actually not much in debt – yes, because it would be difficult in the twenty years, even our existence, to produce a public debt comparable to Austria, Germany and other traditional European market economies that have existed since the Memorial or at least, since the second world war on – that is, in the eighties, they have come to say 100% of the GDP of public debt, and we have managed to settle it in twenty years at 45%. [[...]] And somebody tell me it's small. That's huge, that's too much! Especially if we look at when we created it, that we created a large majority in the last three years, that we had it at the end of the previous term, that's in 2008, 22%, now we have 45 around, at the end of the year they say it's going to be that. So in an extremely short period of time, we have dramatically increased public debt on the basis of a number of reasons, including the financing of the budget deficit. So, we, respecters, have to limit this expenditure, especially because we now don't finance almost more developmental things, but it goes from hand to mouth, so it's about transfers, it's about, what I'd say, licking recessional wounds. If we were in debt in these three years for some strong development projects that would, I don't know, give the results back five, ten years, then it would make sense, I'd say okay, now we're going to invest and we'll want it in years. But we haven't gone into anything like this in three years, but we've just licked the wounds and kept some standard that's obviously too high for our economy. Clearly, Your Honor. We will have to ask ourselves once in this country whether our economy, which is creating – not us in this Parliament, which we are also a taxpayer – or whether our economy can hide such a standard in preschool education, such a standard in primary education, such a standard in secondary education, such a standard in higher education, not to mention health care and other social education, I would say, areas. We'll have to ask that in this country for once, sir. This government is not asking any more questions, and I can no longer, respectfully, two and a half years after taking over this government's mandate to listen, the previous government has been reducing expenditure, expenditure, because it has burdened the state to create more and nothing has done or increased the income. Dearly beloved, at that time we were able to afford it and, despite doing so, we have reduced public debt in percentages of gross domestic product and we have balanced the budget in 2007. This would probably have been the case in 2008 if there had been no change. So, I just want to say that in the current government, it is also necessary to adapt one and another parameters to the situation that has arisen, but not today two and a half years and a half later to be grumbled and pointed back to the previous government, if it has caused what we are now actually in trouble. The results of the previous government at the end of the mandate were more than clear – 22% fell by 2 percentage points, public debt in gross domestic product, when we took over in 2004, about 24%, when we left, was 22%, so we reduced public debt as a percentage of gross domestic product. It is true that we have nominally increased it by one billion, but always, by all methodologies, public debt is measured in the gross domestic product created, always measuring how much you owe, no matter how much you earn, no matter how much your neighbor earns. That's one thing. What else did we do? We have balanced the budget, for the first time in the history of the Republic of Slovenia, that we have spent so much or even a little less than we have created. This was in 2007 and there was a whole circus in this House to admit it. What else did we do? We have reduced the number of unemployed to record low levels of 60,000 at the end or in autumn 2008. Not to mention the economic activity that was then. And now there's some people here pointing their finger back at me that it was wrong at the time. True, at that time we also adopted laws that raised the standard of people, and we raised it. And any responsible government would in the event of a crisis, once it turns out that we can't do it again, we'll bring it back, but you didn't, and you pointed at us, if you did, "you picked it up, and now we can't do anything." That's not true, you have the same majority, and you could vote what you want and limit your expenses, but you did, but you pointed your finger back, "look at those irresponsible ones back." Clearly, this government is not in a position to manage the expenditure of this country, especially because ministers do not view the same things. Yesterday, in the Views of Slovenia, we could see the Secretary-General, who was former secretary of state at the Ministry of Finance when she was tanning, but said that there was a minister who did not hold back from hiring in the public sector, so that the Minister could do everything in his own way in the same government. Therefore, respectable, this government is not in a position to do so, so in this House we must set a limit on the expenditure of the wider sector of the country, because I do not know who else will set them; if not, we will spend too much. And the government has to step up measures to reach this criterion. If Parliament does not do so, we will be spending further, and any measures that follow will be harder, less popular or less unpopular, better said, and more people will be affected. And go to parliament for once and test the opposition about saving, we'll see. Did you come up with any sort of austerity measure ever here? You're not. Here we hear many times that we have reduced taxes, but in fact we have abolished one tax on the payroll that has affected the development workforce. The same effect has had, or a similar effect, the social cap you are talking about, which the Minister of Development agrees on, while the Minister of Finance as a Social Democrat opposes. So these are problems and today pointing fingers at the previous government, two and a half years when you have to exercise – even if the previous government has done something wrong, you could have fixed it 100 times and you haven't even tried to fix it. Of course, because it wasn't wrong, but it's a convenient excuse to show it back. And here, by a young social democrat, the question was whether the former government was publicly responsible and whether the government was publicly responsible and what the previous government had done about public finances. Reduced GDP public debt, reduced the number of unemployed to record low levels, including through measures to ensure such high economic growth, balanced the budget, this was done by the previous government. What has the current government done? The public debt has increased twice, the budget deficit has been around 2 billion for years and 25% of the government budget's revenues, we have record high unemployment and we have almost zero economic growth. Now compare what is public financial responsibility on the one hand and on the other. These are numbers, otherwise disgusting to you, but they're facts, they're not fictitious and some subjective assessment. So I'm asking you to start thinking a little bit, and believe me, with trends like this, we now have that we didn't have 22% of GDP in public debt in 2008, but 100% of where we would be now. Where would we be? That we accidentally got the country 50 years earlier because then we would have had time to collect this public debt at this time. So, we'd probably be in front of Greece after the rescue. For us, we would be making these schemes with these trends. And in the end, dear, no, please, blame the economic and financial crises for the situation. That's right. That was the trigger. The public financial crisis has caused instability, plunged the economy and financial systems into extreme caution and uncertainty, everything is in a jam. And when you're in a cramp, you need the signals of a credible government to make this spasm go away. Many across Europe, these signals have come from governments, the economies have recovered, but not from us. Of course not, because we have a declared orchestra where two ministers, the Minister of Development and the Minister of Finance cannot unify themselves on the measures, so there are no measures, but if they are, they are bureaucratic to the extent that they are useless and ineffective. And the result is here where we are, and the opposition is calling out with this proposal: "Give, for God's sake, control the expenditure, because if not, there will be a collapse of public finances." And you probably have a sweet fuck for knowing that you have another year ahead of you, and this year you can charge this public debt by about 5 to 10 percentage points up, and then you get fucked by those who come after us. That's rude, ugly, domestically speaking, what I just said, but unfortunately it's real. And please let me take more of this public financial responsibility into your own hands once and for all, and maybe a little "spring" would never hurt.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u41	Mrs Breda Pecan has the floor, and Mr Franz Bogovich would be next.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u42	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I would first like to say something around the starting points proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party in this law, which summarises some of the provisions contained in the Public Finance Act, which is already being prepared by the Ministry of Finance and is already under public scrutiny. For example, the ceiling of public debt in gross domestic product, compared to the gross domestic product, which is also proposed in the amendments to the Public Finance Act to 45%, as in this law. The difference between one and the other is that the location of the public debt limitation in the Public Finances Act is significantly more appropriate, the law compared to the fact that we make up a law that we call a law on public financial liability, which shows that in this country only some are responsible and know what public financial responsibility means, while at the same time in their law they say that this public debt should be determined on the basis of the ESA 95 methodology, which borders on the accounting principle, this is on the basis of the event, while in Slovenia and in practice the European Union as a whole, almost the European Union does not apply the accounting principle, but the principle after the cash flow, which means that the obligations in the budget are carried out only when the cash flow is generated. It is also interesting in this law that the expenditure of the state sector includes expenditure from European earmarking resources, such as expenditure for all the investments we are making from European sources. We forget, however, that the fixing of the amount of public debt without the legal limitation of spending makes no sense, given the fact that the budget of 80% is fixed by legal obligations. In fact, the largest share of the consolidated public financing, public liabilities and financing balance, including the state budget, the budgets of local communities and pension and health bills, consists of 24 % pension expenditure, 23 % labour costs and 14 % social transfers. Therefore, a total of 61 % of the consolidated public funding balance is allocated to public servants' salaries, pensions and social transfers. We need to know that we have obligations that we cannot give up, we cannot say with our left hand that we need to start, according to our own words,'spare', that we have too high a standard in terms of what our financial, public finances are, that we need to think about what we are going to do, how we will limit consumption due to high standards in kindergartens, in primary schools, in secondary schools, in higher schools. I hope, I seriously hope that what Mr Vizjak has just said has listened to all Slovenian electoral power! Why? Because he predicted that if – I don't believe that, because in such plans, no smart voter would give a vote to him and his client, he would win the election, lower standards in kindergartens, primary schools, high schools, high schools. Interestingly, at the same time, it does not predict a reduction or extension of working time due to the provision of sufficient funds to maintain the level of pensions. No, he prefers to predict with his colleagues how he will develop a new system of pension insurance, which will be called the "opening of a personal pension account", which means that I will say very, very badly and cruelly if any party who receives authority in this country will introduce a personal pension account, then it means that the pensioners will simply have to be terminated. This is the only way we can reverse the system of intergenerational solidarity, which, for my understanding, is the only real thing, not because I am silent before retirement, but because there are 500, almost 600 thousand pensioners here who, from intergenerational solidarity and from the state budget, receive funds for their pensions. No, now we're going to be young economists who think that they're the only ones worth living and decent living conditions, we're going to go and we're going to say, "no, no, no, now we're not going to be collecting money into a joint cash register and from active employees, from their incomes they're paying pensions, no, now we're going to end it and we're going to open personal pension accounts." I warn all those who fantasize in this way that it is necessary to learn what was the reaction of the German voters, when one such young economist began to spread the thesis about ten years ago that such an intergenerational solidarity system in pensions would not last and personal pension accounts should be introduced. And when they asked him what was wrong with those who now receive pensions on that basis, he said, "We don't need them, they don't create them." That's great. And then his political path was over in a second. I hope that yours too will be so if you come up with such ideas that what we have been able to create over the past 60 years, and more that you will simply cut people off and tell people, but now in kindergartens there will be 40 children in the group and 50 children in primary school, and 30 children in high school, we will no longer provide free computer equipment and a textbook fund, and I don't know what else. Those who shared candy in 2008 before autumn 2008 are now predicting how you will ensure public responsibility in such a way that you will take what they have not earned, but also produce hard work in the past decades. If I return to the fact that the deficit can be reduced by a quality pension reform, such that it does not have to be done on the nose, such as it takes for a period of 20 years, but not 5 or 3 years, as long as the pension law is not confirmed on 5 June. Because the fact that there is no saving and no fiscal discipline can destroy or reverse the fact that we already have 550 thousand pensioners and that we will have them in 10 years 650 thousand or more. Not because people want to retire quickly, but also at the current age limit for retirement age, the number of pensioners will increase in 10 years so that those working at the time will simply not be able to pay such high contributions to cover the necessary pension funds. I think that there is an opportunity here for the proposing of this law to take into account such facts: the fact that our population is getting older, that it is getting smaller and smaller, not because of the unemployed, but because there are fewer and fewer and fewer young people, or people of middle age who are able to work, and that there are simply not enough births in the past 20 years. It is a sad fact that we have three or more children, an exception and a rare one in this country. What needs to be asked is what to do so that we are no longer an exception and a rare one in this country. That instead of threats and insinuating that we have a high standard, people need to offer a little more optimism and happiness. This, it all seems, is what those who propose such laws, who partially copy government projects of the current government, which, at the time when they were very high in the economy, increased public debt, but did not reduce, as is now heard, the fact that this government is said to have done nothing to regulate the public finances and to gradually return to the normal limits of public debt and budgetary deficits – of course, we will not come anywhere in this way. [[...]] With the idea that with such threatening and even on wrong assumptions, on the completely reversed budget management system of course, we cannot say that the law is soberly prepared and that it is prepared professionally. [[...]] Here it all shows that the law has been prepared by people who do not really understand public finances.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u43	Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the word, the next would be Franc Jurša or Marjan Bezjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! Now that we have listened to the performances of government parties and individuals, we already know that government coalition parties will reject the law on public financial responsibility. They will vote in favour of fiscal irresponsibility. This is an extremely good message from you. Public financial responsibility for government parties is not important. They report that they will continue to work as they have in the past two and a half years when the state debt has increased enormously. Billions and billions of new debt. And this will be confirmed and rewarded by the rejection of the Public Liability Act. It does not study the fact that Slovenia has fallen back on the competitiveness of countries in terms of the competitiveness index. We heard that monstrous information yesterday. Why did this happen? Because of a dear country, because of a bureaucratic state, because of the Taiwanese loans that were unprotected and at the time of the privatisation of the tycoons, their companies did not invest in the development and they now have non-competitive products, they can no longer compete, and because the money went out for subsequent privatisation. I am sure that the SCT is talking so much about some rescuers now that it is an attempt to legally return the money that has been sent abroad, which the state has paid too much, 30% too much and so on. And of course, fiscal irresponsibility is clearly the motto of this government and this coalition. They do not accept any warning, and so my transition Mrs Pečanova said that if this law is imposed on the government, then the pensioners must be terminated. No, no, no. Just because pensions will be permanent, just because they turn around in this country, something has to be done and you and the pensioners and all the other structures will be destroyed, because the trees are falling apart and this is the end. Look, but of course I believe you're defending everything your government does, and it's also supposed to do, and it's planned to put money in private pockets and waste. Yesterday I read that the company Vest.si stopped operating, we know, an online matter where Mr Sarkić was a representative of the largest government party before. Before that, they received funds from the Minister of Culture, a nice financial resource for the programmes. So, at the time they were planning to shut down this company, Mr Sever would go as an editor, they say Sarkić had already gone to the party before, and this is after the bypass of the place of state money. Primorska.info – its money for Mr Yuri – was according to the same system. And there are also cases like this. And this is financial irresponsibility, these are crimes, but of course you will not confirm that a law on liability must be passed because you know that it will work irresponsibly forward. And look, he can't be in this country, we know what kind of people the Treasury has set up for supervisors, some of them. Here someone – President of the Supervisory Board of the New Bank of Maribor – is sending me an invitation to discover the monument Boris Kidrič before the Talum in Kidrič today at 2.30 p.m. – to state costs, of course, Talum is a state-owned company and everything is paid. He did not put in front of his companies, where he was a silent companion, but from the money where the silent companion was also created on the basis of state money, and despite having violated the takeover law and not knowing everything, the finance minister does not withdraw him as chief supervisor. And it's a tasteless monument because it's in the factory where I was, anyway, the breast statue of Boris Kidric. But now for state money to Boris Kidrič – who read Torkar's death on meals, knows that there is a hiding of Boris Kidrič, who had his schoolmates executed chemists, Diehl, Stepišnik and so on, because of complexes because he was a falsified chemistry student, but they were successful chemists; he went to flower Slovenian chemistry! And now there's a doctor, a chemist who signs an invitation like this. Distasteful, more than unethical. Today, it says here, “we are proud of our history”. To be proud of the Dachau processes today – and the people of God where we came to be proud of the Dachau processes today and to place them, the founders of the Dachav processes, the monuments of today, for the state money, of course, this is the scattering of state money. Who confirmed that? And the state does not act and this is financial irresponsibility. Of course, they made two shifts of workers together at such an hour, and they would act as if the people were applauding, seductive people. And when I spoke to West.si, secondly, I know that journalists under constant pressure will not report on today's debate or the content of today's debate, will not, will not see the newspapers tomorrow. Only those who have received a financial injection in a way such as West.si will write that the government has said that the opposition is unrealistic, and that is likely to be the case. And once again, if it goes that way, then you're actually sending it all into gear if you're refusing responsibility. On the one hand, those who listen to us today will know that you are rejecting public responsibility and saying that nothing can be done. Yeah, who's gonna act when the state goes bankrupt when there's no pension and nothing? And you don't have to start thinking about tomorrow. Unfortunately, your actions and your strong financial hole – additional debt – have not been reflected in stopping these processes. Slovenia is falling into competition, is a less competitive economy because of the country you are promoting, and it is the last time to sober up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u45	Mr. Marjan Bezjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A well-welcome secretary of state with a co-worker, colleagues and fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Today's reflection here in Parliament shows that you care about this country, where you take it or where we all take it together in the present. We must be aware that, in fact, two billion debts on the annual basis you are creating are more than worrying, so in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are aware of this and for the second time in this mandate we are proposing a bill on the public financial responsibility of the State, the government to the finance of the Republic of Slovenia. In the last two years, the current government has destroyed the development of Slovenia's actual revenues, even more, creating two billion debt each year, as I said. In the past, Slovenia's public debt was 6.7 billion, now more than 14 billion. I do not know if this is a good journey for development or for the existence of Slovenia. I am sorry, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are thinking differently and we are not thinking about confederation any more than you, the former Yugoslavia, we are thinking about a common Europe, prosperity and working conditions in a common Europe. Of course, with the countries of the former Yugoslavia, there is a very good economy of cooperation and assistance – us and them in economic terms. We need to know why the public debt of the country arises from day to day or from year to year, so great – due to the day to day of the enlargement of the public sector. In these poor two and a half years or three years, more than 5,000 people have been employed in the public sector. The establishment of various agencies and similar things with good wages, more than once more wages than in the real economy, is why the state is fleeing to such a financial structure as it actually has. We are meeting – personally very large – with economists all over Slovenia and believe that not only economists, all citizens and citizens are telling us where this breaks us. It's a disaster. This is not a developmental attitude, this is not the future. You need to know that the only economy that reduces wages that actually lives on real soil is at least the one that's still working today. And that, in fact, the Minister, Mrs Irma, says that she cannot fight and that the ministries or ministers are incoherent with regard to harassment or the impact of work and the added value of work in the public sector – that is the biggest problem. All the birds are chirping, the television shows these things day and day, and the action, unfortunately, none. Thank God you're in Maribor or that they're in Maribor, as we call it, in the jargon, "the kangaroos have installed a camera, how the kangaroo walks or what it does," yes, just that there will be some of it, but not that there will be another beating or showing an empty straw. That's the biggest problem, that's scary. I would like to point out that, as long as the economy is so poorly valued in Slovenia, which is proof of the present, for so long, unfortunately, Slovenian companies will be thinking about moving businesses abroad. Isn't that worrying? Are you aware of the release on 1 May of the labour market with Austria? I don't know if you're aware or if you've even asked yourself who else is going to be creating public revenue in the state treasury. These are big questions that I personally am very aware of and ask you when you will be aware of these things. It's true that all the ministers in this government are still teaching in colleges, teaching in colleges. All academics, but no one meets or no one knows the real concept of the economy. You know, with a pencil on paper you can also write 1 + 1 = 3, but in Slovenia we are not even 1 + 1 = 2, this is reality. The things I say are, unfortunately, true. I would also like to point out that we Slovenians have been in an enviable place, respected in Europe, and that we have now fallen to 51st place from 59 countries, and this is a big issue at all, and I do not speak pessimistically, I want to speak optimistically. Sorry, that's the reality. You know, I could still talk about a lot of things, real things, but I can see it's not listening anyway. From the outset, it was presented that this law, which was proposed, does not again say that it actually has many shortcomings. If he's flawed, then let's get things done. We have to start somewhere by incurring the problem of borrowing the country. The resolution of the financial debt incursion, believe it will not be from 13 months to 12 months of annual debt, as it has been shown before. Sorry, that won't happen. I hope that you are thinking or that you will think about this law really realistically, to really start driving Slovenia in a better light and a better condition forward, because if thinking is, "oh, they will be others," then I don't know, I don't think this is the right way. Then it's the way to Greece, Portugal or anywhere. Then the question is, when can we be here? Let's do this once, people here in Parliament, stand together, not share in the left, white, whatever you want, let's think about our future, our countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u47	Mr Bogdan Čepič has the word, the next would be Franci Kek or Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. It is not as simple a public debt debate as the bill-makers imagine. Comrade Bezjak, don't talk about the interest in this marriage, look around you and you'll see how many of your MPs who propose this law are in the bench. I believe they don't even believe that this marriage is good, and that's why, of course, they're not actually here. And that's a reflection, and when you criticize why some others aren't in here, you have to look around. But we're going to the marriage. I believe that the non-admission of this law is a responsibility to public finances. The government is absolutely aware of this and, therefore, in the Law on Public Finance, which is currently under discussion, it has indicated how much this gross debt should be and how this objective should be achieved. But when we talk about gross debt and when we talk about certain things and comparisons that have been heard here, it is important to note when this occurred, why this occurred, what are the causes and how. And let's go back to 2004 and play numbers when we talk about how we have reduced gross external debt as a percentage of GDP. Yeah, it really went down. Has it declined nominally as well?Oh, my God! Nominally no, it nominally increased by 600 million, but in the period when, of course, there was an abundance of everything, when high economic growth, when it was almost balanced, was not a balanced budget, it had a deficit, and that is the debt that is coming. The debt is due to the budget deficit, of course. Because the budgets were not harmonised to zero or plus. And when someone earlier talked about a farmer who knows exactly how much he spends, he doesn't keep clean. A farmer in a good year's shop uses supplies and actually uses supplies because he knows that bad years will come, he can flood, floods, fires, and I don't know what else, and he's stocking up. And what stock did this government have in the 2008 budget? Minus. Minus 2%. This is of course and not only that it was already a minus at the time, we had adopted laws that entered into force either at the end of 2008 or at the beginning of 2009, which reduced tax revenues by about a billion and a half or a billion and 250. That was a reflection. Which, Comrade Bizjak, is difficult to listen to. This is, of course, an option and this needs to be refined, this money needs to be provided. We have two options: to pay back taxes and make the economy even less competitive. That's possible. Of course, we can reduce the costs of public spending. That's possible, too. We're lowering wages by 20, 30%. You're not suggesting that. Yesterday, when we asked one of your financial experts what your proposal is, if you come to power tomorrow, or if you reduce public spending in the public sector, his answer was, “I did not say no”. So you're not going to do that because, of course, the question is 150 thousand voters who could turn around in one way or another. That's the answer. I am proud that we now have a social-democratic government that has taken into account the problems of people and workers. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] We're the only ones, yeah. We are the only ones who have retained that pensions were paid each month within a period of time not to fall, except for coordination with inflation and in this part and fortunately, one of the lower inflations is no higher during this period. Previously, at a time of high economic growth, inflation was also the largest. I am pleased that more or less of the promises we have made to workers have been fulfilled, 90 000 workers have been helped by intervention measures to survive the worst period when it was not possible in working organisations to provide wages, with two measures, of course where this country has invested 165 million, and that only 2,500 workers have lost permanent employment. The rest remained in some way and this allows the economy today to be export-oriented, to be able to relaunch and that other people, workers, are in jobs because they can work, because markets are now opening up and because of, of course, production is now rising. This is important. Maybe it's not for who it is, but I think it's very important for everyone who's stayed in their place of work in their work organisation, and I think it's a big success, and we're under-emphasizing it. As far as long as it's concerned. This one's big, absolutely. But this one must always be in some proportion, in some proportion. This is also bearable if we are looking at a comparison in Europe. It is smaller than in the new comparable countries, linked to the debt to the citizen or to the citizen vis-à-vis the gross social product per capita in these parts. These relationships are important. Because it doesn't matter whether you have 8 000 or 9,000 euros in debt or 31 000 euros in debt per capita, because it's linked to whether it's possible to pay it off or not. That is why, of course, this comparison is and we are still fortunate at the bottom in all these comparisons. It could have been lower in the previous period, which we all say has been extremely successful and I don't know what else, even if this debt were to be slightly reduced by a balanced budget and generate profit. And when will we reduce our debt? At a time when the budget will show surpluses. That is why structural changes are needed, not just pension changes, which is one of these. Of course, there will be a need in the public sector as well, and also in the state sector. We mix these two things up. We need to split the public sector into two parts. One is the state administration with the military, the police and customs. The second is the public sector. But in the public sector, we are increasing the number of employees, not in the state sector, that we are in the clear. In the state sector, this government has reduced the number of employees. Not enough, in my opinion. We should do more. There are probably some other people who are unproductive, but some action needs to be taken. However, as regards the public sector, as regards kindergartens, hospitals, homes for the elderly, we need to know that the number of children has increased, that they are normative and that there is a need for employment. That we built fortunately quite a few homes for the elderly in your time and in our time. That these homes of the elderly should also be equipped with people who care for them. We also opened some kindergartens and, fortunately, there is an increase in the number of children in schools. These are the measures. Can Normatives Change? Yes, you can. We can go back, as it was, I don't know which year, 30 children, and thereby jeopardize child protection and endanger the protection of children or the safety of these children, or we can reduce the standard. Slovenia has a relatively high standard in the field of social activities and so is it. Everything will have to be done to try to maintain this standard, to reduce costs and, of course, to reduce this public debt. These are some things that will have to be done in order to reduce our public debt in the long term. I support the basic idea that this public debt should not be increased. Whether this is over 45 or 50% is a very relative thing. Of course, it will have to be determined how much GDP will grow; it will grow faster; it will fall faster. It is important that this debt will not grow nominally, that is important. Why? Because if I have credit, it doesn't matter if it's 20 or 40 percent of my salary, those thousand euros have to be returned, that's important. Thus, of course, it is necessary to return these 16 billion at one time, or as much as it will take to ensure that this country does not have so much debt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u49	Mr. Mag.? You're giving up? Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor. The next one would be Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. My predecessor said he was very pleased with the SD government of Slovenia. I must enlighten him that he is one of the few who is pleased with this. Most people in this country are not happy with this. As has already been said several times today, we heard in yesterday's edition of the View of Slovenia by Kamnikareva that he is additionally employed in the state administration, despite the fact that you said no, and that the ministers do not obey and we will have to ban it by law. Man doesn't know if he'd cry or laugh about it. We have taken a few steps to save some money, even lower the salaries of Members, and more. But, of course, it's all too small if we're going somewhere else and throwing money out the window. There's no problem finding money for rent at the NPU for anything else, for all the new agencies, offices. With each new law, you anticipate new consumers. The grant law will introduce 14 foundations, directors and so on, and we will pay it again and wonder why there is no money for scholarships and why we need to reduce social rights. A number of predecessors have talked about how much we spent in our government's time, how much we're spending now. That's when we made eight billion, eight of us. We have indeed increased the debt by 1 billion, but this has led to some solid results that this government cannot praise. This resulted in 40,000 new jobs, a reduction in public debt, a balanced budget, the highest economic growth and so on. It's no big deal if there's something out of it. The problem is, if we owe ourselves indefinitely, there is no effect, but there is an increasing number of new unemployed and a host of negative results at the end. A colleague of Pecan’s spoke of low fertility — a little less than our fault. The birth rate increased in the previous mandate, also due to incentives and positive family policies. This government does things differently, only sharpens, introduces new taxes and reduces the rights that have been established. Somewhere else, like I said, it's a big waste. She also told us that we can't threaten people. Yes, as much as this government threatens them, no one has ever threatened them before. Before 2004, we heard that there was an empty pension register, an empty health register, that there would not be a pension if Janša won, of course, that there would be a whole bunch of things. Now we have an SD government and we are only listening to threats, "if pension reform is not adopted, we will have to take such and other measures, we will have to reduce everything, remove all rights," and so on. Who's threatening? You keep threatening us, don't talk to us. The proposal that has been tabled, I will support the proposal for a law on public financial responsibility, but I suppose we should have adopted it sooner in order to record any results.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u51	Mr. Magg has the word. A visionary as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, it is my duty to respond to certain inaccuracies and misleading data, because the purpose of the law we have tabled is, in fact, to finally realize how long our sheet is, to cover just as much as we create, and not to live in dreams and clouds. But I can see that this fantasizing and this distortion of facts has actually overwhelmed some so much, it's so occupied that they don't really know what's rational and what's not. See, Mr Čepič, the Social Democrats, the party to which you belong has ruled this country's entire mandate, for all twenty years, in one way or another, made up a government coalition, except for the previous government and the six months of the Bajuk government. So at least three quarters of the whole period you have been in position, you have made up your mind, you have had scissors and canvas, and Slovenia has raised about 16 billion euros in debt during this period; 15 when you were ruling, and one during the period of the previous government. And now you're telling us there's a supply to be made! You are telling us that in the mandate of the previous government we should correct all 15, 16 billion – in fact, you have created 6, 7 or 8 even in this three-year or two-year term. So if anyone ever created a stock, this was created when we levelled the state budget, that was in 2007, we had a surplus. We didn't have it because we debated here that we spent more than we created, and that it was a fiction. No, no, no. It was the shares of Telekom that were still in the Court, not in the State budget, and that was the difference. So, the property was in the country, and it was more or less for accounting tricks, bullshit, and I don't know what else. So, the fact is that the country then created a surplus and on a good path, if, of course, the events did not happen in September 2008, they would probably continue in 2008. So, that's when we made the stock, that's when we actually started stabilizing the public finances that were down until then. Look at the graphs, the comparisons of public debt compared to the gross domestic product created, and you will see that then the public curve started to fall. The share of public debt in gross domestic product started to fall to 22,5 % at the end of 2007. I say, Mr Chapič, you have created 15 billion euros in public debt in three quarters of the twenty-year rule and independence of this country, and in one quarter one, that is to say 15:1. Or if we divide those 15 by 3, because this is three times the length of time, we arrive at 1:5, 5 times the average of Slovenia's independence you owe the country over the previous government and you now feel responsible and called upon to report it to us. A small, minimal amount of self-criticism, rationality and reality could only be achieved. And you can't out of your own skin, so you don't always look back on that one term, you always look back on that one term. Even though we would have made a mistake in the previous term and allowed our citizens more than they did, with free kindergartens, free meals for high school students and so on – because we lived at a time when the economy was creating and when we were able to balance the budget, even though this would have happened and even if this was a reasonable observation, you had two and a half years of time since then to fix it. No, you didn't fix it, but you've been reading it to us for two and a half years. You are aware that we have reduced taxes because we have burdened the economy, and you are telling us that we have burdened public finances or budget expenditure with additional rights that go to people. Your Honor, if anything you believe is wrong, if it wasn't just your words on your lips, you could fix it. You've had two and a half years from then on. You had the majority, the majority coalition, and you would have done it. You have not done this or anything else, in fact, you have done, tolerated so-increasing public spending or budget expenditure, it is wrong, and in view of the golden times of this expenditure you have increased for some ineffective measures that cost us dearly – you have said that we keep jobs, and the result has been the slaughter of the unemployed in this army. One more thing, Mr Čepič – you have said that there is still a serious deficit compared to Europe or a deficit, I am talking about debt, public debt. But Mr Čepič, you speak in 20 years, we have this public debt, which you compare with other countries of the European Union, produced in 20 years, in a relatively short period from 1991 to 2011. The countries with which you compare this debt have been credited with this debt since the Memorial because they did not have such special conditions as we do because we are a newly created country. And now you're comparing it, and you're saying that we still have a long-term debt, that we're still enduring in 20 years, I'd say. Where do you live? Have you compared the trend of public debt growth in recent years, three, two years in Slovenia and elsewhere? Compare this and you will see that we are champions in Europe. There's nothing more tolerable. We have the most increased public debt among all the euro area countries, the largest gradient we have, the second drain – my colleague would certainly know, Trofenik, what it means. The biggest gradient, that's the problem with this country. And the problem is even bigger because we don't see tomorrow that it's going to be better, but they point to the same trends, because there are no measures to instill expenditure and there are no measures to increase revenue, no, I don't see them. And not only do I not see them, but the government also recognises this in its scenarios, not for the next year, it predicts that it will be better for 2013. Sorry, that's how we read in 2009, when she predicted it would be better by 2011 and it didn't. And now we read in 2011 that 2013 will be better. Mr Senjur was sitting next to you yesterday, and he was saying the same thing as I am saying now, "no script", maybe he's on paper, but not with the actions of the deficit management script and the resulting debt, he's not, the paper puts everything on paper, you write whatever you want, I read those papers, you can't see how you're going to consolidate this. Then Mrs Irma Pavlinič Krebs said that there would be no third or fourth elimination of wage imbalances in the public sector, would there really be? How you will save your pensioners when you say in this pre-referendum euphoria that pensions will increase. That the pension will grow. And you're saying you'll be saving 200 or 300 million dollars in pensions. I mean, now I don't know how this works. [[...]] So a little, please, one way to say reality and rationality in assessing the current situation and not least the well-intention of this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u53	Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor, please. Mr Rado Likar, probably Mr Kres, would be next.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u54	Ladies and gentlemen of the government! See, if this law, which we have drawn up in good faith, of course, had also been tabled, as you have understood or wanted to understand it, it would probably have been more often involved in the debate and, finally, here some constructive proposals, how can we make such a law workable. And even on the part of the coalition, it would be significantly more useful and effective if we said through this debate, "see, here we can save, here we can save, here it is needlessly wasted" and this law would certainly be realistic. Look, we're gonna have to pay that debt back sometime. Government representatives, tell me, and also by the coalition, who will repay this debt. We already have 5 billion today, one year from now, there's going to be so much more, yes, with what's been there since then, that debt is already 16 billion. Who's gonna bring that back?Oh, my God! And here now to say that this law cannot be enforced, that it is unrealistic, I don't think it is responsible. This could be helpful to the government. I firmly believe that it would be significantly easier for you to set up or then prepare a budget, because every ministry or department would be aware that there is a legal restriction here. Now we know how this budget is being adopted. See the typical example that it is always planned on the basis of certain wishes when money is being used irrationally in individual areas over the last three months. Why? Because ministries or departments know "if I don't spend everything this year, I won't get that much in the next year". And here it is possible to achieve a great deal of savings immediately. We are not reading, we are not suggesting that standards in kindergartens, schools should be reduced in terms of where this would be pointless or ineffective, but in terms of employment and also irrational use, there is much to be saved. Well, I'm running out of time now, but I'll be in the rest of the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Guido Kres has the word – he is not there. Mr. Villa Trophynik – neither is he. Mr. Ljubo Germich, Mr. Mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. I will not say anything new if I say that the state of public finances is extremely critical, and that is what all experts, all economists and point to the depth of public debt already say. The fact that we have 8 billion revenue on an annual basis and 10 billion expenditure so that this does not go far is, of course, clear to everyone. It is also clear to every housewife that with 800 euros of wages you cannot spend a thousand euros a month, that it simply does not go like that, maybe it goes on for a while, and in the long run, of course, it is a matter of fractures. And we won't get far without balancing this budget. The situation is obviously even as severe as some economists warn that without tax recovery, recovery will not be possible. Without raising taxes, recovery will not be possible, it has been said yesterday and in the past days and I am very concerned because obviously we will all have to tighten our belts together and pay for the debt that has been going on in recent years. In four years, the government seems to be in charge of us or will create us with 7 billion deficits. In four years. Compared to the highway cross, which is so much spoken of, the country has built a highway cross with all problems over 15 years for approximately the same amount, but this country has a seven billion-euro highway cross, which we all use, which means economic growth, which means a lot of things not to mention. And in four years, we're going to spend 7 billion, and we're not going to have a highway cross. And we're not actually going to have anything, nothing that we can hold. And that is the key problem for us to be indebted or to be used for current consumption. Yes, spending will have to be reduced. And where this consumption does not add value. Recently, we have heard a lot of such things that certainly do not add value; from the various contracts that are designed to develop aid to Pomurje with hourly items from thousands to thousands of EUR 500 per hour, to various garage entrepreneurs who help the Government Service for Local Self-Government and, last but not least, the buildings for the National Investigation Office. These are all very, so I'll say, carefully chosen, at saving the underlying item. However, spending is repeatedly evident to the previous government, which has certainly never been denied. But then 8 billion revenue was spent on 8 billion expenditure, and it's said that there were fat cows at the time, and that it was wasted all along and over, without any concept. Today, we spend 10 billion on the same income. So 2 billion more than was spent when it was wasted across borders. I would have expected, if it were already so claimed, that the expenditure would have returned to that year when it was so long and so far spent, at least on items unrelated to the financial and economic crisis. There's a lot of this stuff. Last but not least, even in the National Assembly this year we received extremely beautiful new monitors for computers. They're as big as TV. I don't know why. Those former ones were still very good and we were perfectly able to do what we Members need, this computer or information system. So we got new ones, big ones. Consumer bureaucrat logic, I mentioned it several times. When we adjust our income to the planned expenditure, not the other way around, it takes us directly to Greece, nowhere else. First in the budget, we write everything we spend, and then we will see what revenue will be. What's going to run out, we're going to be in debt. The budget's flat. That's not how they work in the economy. Because if we did, the situation would be significantly different. On the other hand, given that I am often talking about saving, saving in that segment that does not add value, and on the other hand, investments that are on the table that are prepared “ready to go” do not move. Man doesn't know why. For example, last week I drove to Bled to Congress and saw the unbuilt section of the highway here in Gorenjska. It looks about the way it looked when I left the ministerial chair, two and a half years ago. No one, ever and never, will convince me that in these two - and - a - half years this leg or part — half the vehicle — could not be completed. Why wasn't he finished? We have a construction problem that needs investment, and there were two workers up and down that construction site when I drove by. I don't understand. It's been two and a half years and it's not over. Before that, in four years it was possible to complete the Moorish highway, and within two and a half years it was not possible to build a road of 3,5 or 4 kilometres, half the highway. It's true that there's a viaduct and a tunnel in between, but I don't know. That's another thing. Hydro power plants on the lower Savi. Mr Vizjak mentioned the landfill of low and medium radioactive waste, Faculty of Medicine in Maribor, not least the third development axis. Another case like this. Just before the end of my term of office, local communities, all three municipalities in White Krajina, accepted the proposed variant of the southern route of the third development axis. It's been two and a half years since then. And? Well, there's also one of those possibilities. Of course, I agree, in the middle part and in the north part of this third development axis, the problems of putting into space are because the local communities do not agree with the proposed options. But there's no such thing in the south. In the southern part, local communities adopted the proposed option. So, within two and a half years of that, it would probably be possible to do something about this southern part, and this we talked about here in the National Assembly, when I proposed, “let us concentrate on the southern part of the third development axis because there is some consensus, and show others that where there is agreement that something is moving faster there”. And I'm going to mention ARSO again. More than 2 thousand 200 cases that have been dealt with. Not everyone is connected to investment, but there are so many. And, of course, economic operators who have prepared investments that have prepared money depend on the good will of someone in Ljubljana, that they will write that permit, consent or whatever they need to make an investment in a timely or untimely manner or for whatever reason. I don't know. It seems to me that some things are not going as well as they should and things could be changed and things corrected, so that I will support this bill because, as we are monitoring and investigating ourselves in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, you know, some countries have introduced spending restrictions into the Constitution. The countries in the European Union and Switzerland, including Switzerland, have a spending limit enshrined in the Constitution. And if I have the right information, that's what Germany did, we're investigating these things. France's thinking in this direction too, probably not just like that, but there's probably something wise about it if you want. For we also do this at home: if we do not have it, we do not have it, and we cannot spend more than we have, and everyone understands it. Just as long as this consumer bureaucratic logic is with us, there will be no change for so long. Until the right manager comes to the head of the government, who will be able to set the framework that can change that logic into some other logic, I don't think we're good at anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u57	Madam Secretary of State, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. Allow me to respond to a few of the points that have been made in this rather extensive debate. The comments touched on various areas, so I will also jump from different themes to different topics in my reply or comment, but let me start with a general conclusion. The bill proposes to limit public financial expenditure to 45 % of GDP, as measured by the ESA methodology. As measured by this methodology, last year we had 49% of GDP in public spending or spending from the wider sector of the country, and we are planning the same consumption this year. This means that this bill proposes, given last year's gross social product, that the spending of the wider sector of the country is reduced by €440 000. This year and next year for an additional €360 million. In view of the proposal that this level of spending should be reduced or prepared by a change in the state budget, it is clear that this overall reduction in consumption is expected to cover the state budget. However, the state budget has around 85% of the expenditure pre-defined by legislation, and when we talk about spending or consumption under the state budget, we are not talking about money that is intended for some kind of espionage or some non-productive activity, but rather for the needs of public institutions that carry out activities of general social interest that are intended for almost 20% of this money. Current transfers to social security funds are set at a further 15%. 14.5% of transfers to individuals and households are made. If we are looking at the essentially requirement presented by this proposal for a law, this is an intervention in this expenditure that I have just mentioned. The talk was about the country’s wastefulness and how we spend on goods and services, or on material costs. In view of the state budget alone, we have spent €864 million in 2008 nominally for these purposes and €823 million in 2010. Therefore, we note a significant reduction in this expenditure already nominally, but if we are looking at essentially this expenditure in mass or in the proportion of all the revenues of the state budget, the situation or the level of expenditure in this area has been further reduced in this last crisis two-year period. Even if we are looking at a consolidated balance sheet of public finances, from 2008 to 2010, these costs have been nominally reduced by around €15 million. Therefore, it is not possible to attach to the claim of some discussers that it is abnormally or uncontrolledly spent for non-productive purposes in order to make uncontrolled use of funds for such and other purposes. I agree that a number of things could be rationalised and last year, if only as an example, the first part of the rationalisation was brought about by the national budget rebalancing and the second part of the rationalisation also by limiting consumption in the second half of last year, when we did not allow the practice that could have been observed in the past years to increase dramatically by the end of the year, because individual budget users wanted to spend what they had not spent until then, but with some controlled consumption and controlled consumption also in the second half of last year, we created additional savings of around 600 million euros. I must also reject the obvious uncontrolled increase in the costs of public servants' salaries and the uncontrolled increase in the number of employees in the public administration. If I can give you the exact details. In the civil part of the public administrations, the number of employees decreased by 1074 in the period from 1 January 2006 to 1 April 2011, 330 in the period from 1 January 2006 to 1 January 2009 and 650 in the period from 1 January 2009. It is true that during this period the number of employees in the Slovenian Army and in the Administration for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions increased slightly, but the total numbers still show a decline in the number of employees in the public administrations from 34 000 387 to 33 000 817 employees on 1 April 2011. Several times in today's discussions, pension reform has been mentioned and various figures have been used as to how much pension reform actually saves and how much it does not. If the pension reform is confirmed at the referendum, in the short term there will be a real savings in pension payments of 0.1% of the gross social product, i.e. 35 million euros. However, if the pension reform has not been adopted, the cost or additional amount of savings we need to provide not only concerns the payment of these 35 million euros, but also other costs need to be taken into account. And these costs are what the Government is talking about when it comes to the fact that the fall of pension reform means the need for additional savings of EUR 300 million. And this EUR 300 million means in one part – in the largest part of €220 million – an additional austerity effort to stabilise public finances to take into account the implicit cost of ageing the Slovenian population. Therefore, we must not mix pears and apples and compare them essentially because they are essentially incompatible with each other. In the event of the adoption of the pension reform, there is therefore an additional savings, an immediate additional savings of 35 million, and in the event of a fall, additional savings of 300 million should be provided, due to the indirect costs incurred by the fall of the pension reform. There has also been a lot of talk about the effects of anti-crisis measures. I hope that the National Assembly will hold or wish to hold a debate on the assessment of the effects of the measures prepared by the Ministry of Labour on the effects of measures related to the labour market. These figures show that a large number of jobs have been maintained. Comparisons as to what employment was or how many unemployed were during the economic period, how strong the economic situation was, and what data on unemployment were probably not comparable in times of economic crisis. Also in the area of economic promotion, something has been done: what can be done either on the revenue side of the budget, where certain tax reliefs have been introduced in the last period — last year and before — in line with the possibilities, and in particular contributed to the improvement of the situation in the economy with direct incentives, through direct measures, both in the area of entrepreneurship, competitiveness and also in the field of investment in technology and the information society. The statements that we are in charge of current consumption and for non-productive purposes are also misleading to a certain extent. The revenue from the debt is revenue; if it is not pre-financing of future budgets, the revenue of the integrated budget is spent on the expenditure of the integrated budget, which includes both investment and current expenditure. When compared with European countries, we still need to find that the share of revenue in the wider sector is the country in Slovenia, compared to European countries, within the European average. The share of the state budget expenditure of the wider sector of the country – the above mentioned 49% of gross social product – is also within the average of European countries. On the other hand, the extent of public debt in Slovenia is far below the average for European countries. I am not saying this because I would like to emphasise that we can be satisfied with the current situation. Absolutely not. For this reason, I have also announced in the introduction that we are preparing a law on public finances, which has been submitted for public hearing and also submitted to all Parliamentary groups of the National Assembly for a preliminary review, in which we set precise fiscal rules and also determine how they are, and under what conditions, in which cases this fiscal rule can be exceeded in essence. We consider that this is the right and appropriate way to continue the debate on public financial discipline and accountability in this country and propose that the debate in this direction continue in the context of the debate on the law on public finances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u59	Mr. Magg has the word. Andrej Vizjak, as the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. In fact, I am pleased to hear some of the facts made publicly, which detract from the announcements made by various ministries, in view of what the Secretary of State has said today. I am pleased to say that the implementation of pension reform brings savings on an annual basis in the first year 0.1% of gross domestic product, which amounts to €35 million. Two or three days ago, we were able to read in all the media how much higher pensions will be if pension reform is in place, and here we see that at the annual level there will be less money spent on pensions, because this savings will be on the pension account. Thus, enforcement will bring savings due to smaller or, of course, less on pensions. That's one thing. The second thing is respected, if the problem is to achieve a reduction in public finances or the spending of the wider sector of the country this year, as you say, due to pre-contained transfers to all living – from institutions, individuals and so on – and let's put the law into a second reading, amend it, make this goal for 2012, and take systemic measures to achieve this goal in 2011, enough time to achieve it in 2012. This compromise is also possible with the opposition, it is possible to do so, it is possible, but it must be started, it must be started, we can agree on any other number, not 46, we can agree on 47 in the first year and then down to this target level. But for God's sake, we need to start controlling the expenditure in this country. And if this government had a serious ambition to do that, then I would eventually do a review of the rights and transfers in this country. We would actually see and talk about this in this National Assembly and decide where we will intervene in any right and where we will not intervene in any right. However, this discussion needs to be started. Why? Because the revenue it pays for the state treasury economy is no longer sufficient for all of our expenditure, it is simply stated. We have too much deficit and this is constantly happening to us; if you were still convincing in 2009 and even 2010 – if it is a crisis, this is currently a boom boom – we cannot, this matter will be drawn to us. And I remember the reports and the forecasts of the state or ministry, if yes, year, year, year two, and we're going to be swimming, and there's no shortage that we're going to get below 3% of the deficit by 2011. And we have increased it this year, and the forecasts are even higher than for 2010. Yeah, 5.8 percent, we'll see at the end of the year what happens, because now we're talking about decimals. So, I just want to point out that I understand that you're talking or I understand that you're doing this from your position, that you can't, that you can't, that you can't, that you can't here, that you can't here, we have 85 percent of the concrete obligations legally determined Yes, of course, if you just look at it staticly, nothing can happen. [[…]] Just, once again, we have a problem, we have two billion minus this year, and last year we also had two billion, I don't know how long we can watch it. And the purpose of this law is to finally realize that you are aware of this situation. And you have also repeated the mistake that Mr Chapič made before. That we're relatively in a bit of a debt. But, Your Honor, in 20 years of our history, we've been so indebted. Compare where we are champions, and we are champions in increasing debt under this government's mandate to the population. We're a long way out here. The debt trend is actually catastrophic and leads to destruction. I don't know if we're gonna have to all crash to figure this out.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u61	Madam Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u62	Thank you very much, just two observations. As far as pension reform is concerned, it is likely that when we are talking about a global number, in addition to the amount of the pension, the number of pensioners receiving the pension must also be taken into account, and in the event of an extension of the working age, the number of pensioners does not increase as quickly as it is now increasing under the conditions of the existing pension law. As far as this last statement is concerned, let me mention: yes, indeed, in the last period Slovenia has owed more than in the past period. However, if we look at essentially how individual countries are indebted or what average data are for the euro area as regards the state of the debt sector in the last period – let's say from 2007 to 2010, I have data – this debt increased by 19 percentage points in the euro area, in Slovenia from 23.1% to 38, i.e. by 15 percentage points. If we look at individual countries, say Germany, just for 19 percentage points – well, we wouldn't exactly compare with Greece – then France from 63 to 81.7%, i.e. 18 percentage points. Thus, given the percentage or percentage points of public debt increase over the last three years, Slovenia has indeed committed a great deal, but still in a similar situation as in other European countries.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u63	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure? I see two hands. Anyone else? Three. Here you go, Mr. Grill. Every five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u64	Thank you very much. I've run out of time before. See, it is also typical in the performance of the Secretary of State, as well as of the coalition Members, that nothing can actually be done here, and it is always when we face problems that will have to be solved once and for all, but it is always found that it is impossible to do so. And now, again, if we're going to be in debt in the coming years, who's going to repay that debt? Once it is necessary, once again, it will be necessary to tighten the belt so severely that this debt, which is becoming truly worrying, will also begin to be repaid. According to the data we have, we have reached a record in the European Union in increasing public debt. Only within this government's mandate for EUR 5 billion. That's a lot of money. And also given the fact that we are paying only for interest on 1.54% of the gross social product, it means that we are not paying anything off. It seems that we will always be able to repay this debt, which we are essentially accumulating. And now, if we look at the other countries that certainly have better results during this time of crisis, let optimism in their economic movements – means that GDP is increasing – they have done quite differently. For example, at least here in the bill itself, Austria is explained how they compressed the belt and began to reduce expenditure dramatically. In 2009, they spent 77 billion euros, reduced to 70 billion in 2010. That means they've reduced the expenditure by 10%. In 2011, however, expenditure was slightly raised compared to 2010, but still significantly less than 2009. But they have increased this expenditure on the basis of positive economic growth. But things are completely different with us. And now to speak, even this information that we are still on some average, that it is not worrying, as far as public debt is concerned. [[…]] If we remember in 2008, we were among the least indebted, I think that Luxembourg alone was slightly less indebted than all EU members, but now we have a strong, strengthened and, of course, increased the same debt. Like I said, we're going to have to save where we can. Here we speak, at least in the discussions of the coalition MPs, that in the SDS we frighten voters to threaten with some drastic reductions in standards is not true. [[…]] That's not true, Mrs. Pecan. You were the ones who suggested that we threatened to lower standards in kindergartens, in schools We never even discussed it, even less in our programs. [[…]] But it is true that even in kindergartens, even in schools, things can be rationalized. A wide variety of euro goes unnecessary, but more needs to be saved. But where spending is pointless and unnecessary or even increases, there, unfortunately, nothing is actually done. This information also shows that the Government has taken some measures to promote economic growth. See, I would hardly agree with this that these measures have been effective, let me ask entrepreneurs, let me ask businesses, they are all dissatisfied with these measures, whatever they have been. Mostly, look. The Chamber of Commerce or the Chamber of Commerce, they have prepared their proposals and, of course, they are disregarded. Here is also the information on how many jobs have been preserved or saved when subsidised, the absence of working time. In most cases, the money was put away by companies, not by workers. There have been abuses here, Madam Secretary of State. Yeah, but I guess he doesn't want to talk about it. This brought probably less positive than ever. And still, look, there's a saying, I think it's Japanese: "It's better for the hungry to learn to catch fish than to give him fish."
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u65	Mr. Rado Likar, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. In my five minutes. Hello, everyone! The thing is, I don't think it's that bad. In fact, it'll be even worse if we don't grab the bull's hands in time. I have also read on the website a report from the Fiscal Council or a statement by his President Senjur that he himself is concerned about the public financial situation in Slovenia, for the following reasons: because of the high deficit and because of the accumulation of public debt. It can also be so daunting to talk about this proposal, if the solutions in it are not real and that fear of public finances in Slovenia makes it unnecessary that this is just a collection of political points, etc. The fact is that the law on public financial liability is another attempt by the Slovenian Democratic Party to help, to stop this wagon, which, at the increasing speed of the log down, has a partly corrupt steering mechanism and the brakes are not in the best condition. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, however, we have prepared this law for the second time in order to prevent the worst that could happen to us, but this is a financial collapse in which Greece has been, followed by Ireland, Portugal and some others on this path. The country's debt has increased since 2008 and has increased from slightly over 8 billion already to 13, 14 billion, increased the state's guarantee, increased interest, unemployment and bankruptcy. According to the latest figures, GDP has decreased compared to the EU average and is only 88% of the European Union average. Umara's 2011 Development Report states that the well-being of the population in Slovenia has not increased in the last two years. So in Slovenia there is still prosperity, except that it has not increased in the last two years. And in fact, the crisis does not really feel so much, except for those who have lost their jobs and are unemployed, but it costs us 2 billion a year, and this drink will have to be paid once. While some European countries – Germany, Austria, France, the Czech Republic and so on – are already recording a significant increase in national income, Slovenia is still in this recession and somehow we cannot make it through exports, there is no way we can penetrate foreign markets, nor is demand on the domestic market rising. The economy is simply standing because government action, as it were said, will not be taken. And that's why it's good that this marriage is supported. There may also be a different percentage, as proposed by Vizjak said, but the fact is that it is necessary to start somewhere. Just like at home when one source of funding is lost [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] does not take credit for holidays, in fact it is possible for any new activity to be opened, such as s. p. [[...]] [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. If one of the candidates' objectives is to draw attention to the seriousness of the situation in public finances and to limiting public spending, then this is certainly a welcome debate, and I think there is no doubt that if anyone is aware of this seriousness and responsibility, the Government, especially the Ministry of Finance, is certainly aware, and I can say that there is also a coalition or especially the Social Democrats. However, I have to return the ball to the proponents – when they open the debate on public consumption, of course they want to reduce it. When we face road problems, however, a law is introduced proposing that all state roads be regulated in an extremely short time. You have also introduced a law whereby you wish to demolish within six months all the toll stations that we have as leading stations or which have been set up for an open toll system. From where? With what resources? And if we go back to history and when we compare these 15 years, I ask you: Are you in favour of reducing denationalization obligations? Is that what you want?Oh, my God! I would like a very clear response if they are proposing to reduce these obligations. In all this history of independence, Slovenia has only increased its obligations from this title, and has not decreased. If we look at the defence budget – when you were responsible for this area, there was an enormous increase in commitments there, after this period we have reduced spending on this sector to, we can say, a very critical limit, but we have reduced it, in particular, a very concrete case. And if we go back for a moment to the sale of the property that Slovenia sold, then maybe I'll give an example that everyone could monitor and even the vast majority felt. At what cost did we sell the apartments, the housing fund that was built? At a very low price, and it was sold. Of course, very few funds have come into the state budget because this was an extremely favourable sale. When we talk today about taxation of property, the proposaler will certainly object to the taxation of such assets. So if we are talking about the seriousness of the debate, then I suggest that this debate is serious and responsible, not populist. Only in these cases do I think that it can be very quickly demonstrated what ambiguity there is in these debates. If I return for a moment to these decisions that have been taken and mentioned what we need today. Investments. We need investments for the development axes, for 3, 3, 4, we need 4 billion. Where can we get them? During the period when it was not necessary to take responsibility for the construction of motorways, it was in charge of motorways. The toll system has changed significantly, reducing revenue for the settlement of current liabilities in motorways, and, last but not least, part of the resources has been planned in the future if it is also a closed toll system, of course, also for the construction of development axes. That was a waste. No one can return these funds to the state budget anymore and today there is no source for more intensive construction in the development axes, because this resource has been simply wasted. No one can bring him back. But we didn't do this to the Social Democrats. We have never received the Social Democrats before this term of office in the history of Slovenia. These are concrete examples that show that today we are paying only bills for what has happened in the past. And these bills aren't small. Therefore, it was also necessary to entrust itself during this period. I think it must be said that many businesses would not survive this crisis if they were not in charge of helping them. And many jobs wouldn't be kept if we didn't go into debt. So instead of investing money in development, it had to help the economy and alleviate social distress. Now that we are talking about the implementation of pension reform, because it will have to be implemented in any case, of course it is populist on your part, it is preferable not to defend it. That's not necessary. We'll sort it out somehow. When and how, no one says. We're proposing. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u69	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate and note that the vote on this agenda item will be held on Tuesday, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. Agenda item - Proposal for a resolution on the National Higher Education Programme. The draft resolution was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, Mr Gregor Golobic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u70	Dear President, Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable Members, Members, Other Guests! He dares to use his head, the sappers of the audio, is determined to delay the crossing until the water to the dry, in one of his instructive ambassadors cried out Horac in the last years before our count. That the mind, knowledge, and creative power of man’s distinguished qualities, if only he had the ability to develop them and the courage to use them, the poet, who was sent to the best schools in Athens and Rome as a free slave, was evidently too well aware of. Consciousness of this was lost and returned in later history. It is no coincidence that the same call — the sapare aude — was made by Kant as the leader of the modern - day enlightenment, an era that has brought about a wide range of science and mass public education on the basis of such inspiration. It cannot be a surprise, therefore, if we look back after a post-modern oblivion, at the time of modern birth, to the challenges of enlightenment. We are, on the one hand, motivated by external reasons. As a nation, as a nation, we are solving problems with a lack of intelligence and consideration as a community, whether it is issues of tolerance, solidarity, coexistence, social conflicts or political conflicts, or the lost game of that not small part of the economy that has often wanted and often still wants to solve problems of low productivity and non-competitiveness mainly by cutting costs and reducing labour prices. On the other hand, traces of pre-lighted mentality are unfortunately also present within academic circles. From the loud warnings of both students and higher education teachers and researchers, I quote: "full autonomy is not the time because we are not mature for it" that the role of the State as a guardian against the excesses of academic freedom must therefore be preserved in areas where the state has nothing to look for and other indicators of the non-academic nature of the academic environment itself. Hunting for hours and so adjusted creation of a multitude of study programs, the mistaken idea that we can increase the competitiveness of Slovenian higher education with the number of colleges and universities, not with the growth of inherent academic quality, the advantage of the distribution of documents and the acquisition of documents over knowledge and so on. Indeed, the State has encouraged such a state of affairs from trivial receptions, through the way and inadequacy of funding, to more sublime transformations by grading knowledge as values by itself and as criteria of social promotion. And with such a waste of time for decades gone by, there's no such thing as a shortcut. That is why we have set both strategies within a 10-year range to address the underlying problems and to take into account the wide range of options we have allocated priorities and identified concrete actions over the course of years. In order to maintain the social dimension of access to knowledge as a public good through diversification in the world and the world of open higher education, and to implement the criteria of high quality. In order to strengthen the autonomy of universities, which, subject to responsible self-government, can guarantee the necessary academic freedom, and certainly not least, in order to establish conditions that enable all of this to be effectively enhanced by the real increase in public funding for tertiary education and science. The fact that today, with some confidence in Slovenian higher education and science, is due mainly to important reforms, incentives and investments and to the attention that the sphere received 30 and even 40 years ago. On this basis, Slovenian resistance in the past and self-resistance against crises were based, but each insistent in itself once unrelentingly stops. Ours stops because we've been neglecting him for decades. The strategies ahead of you have been on this background for a relatively long time. I assess that the preparation and work and the broad public debate with all the public concerned were thorough and professional. We have achieved more than many have hoped at the beginning, both in terms of the integrity of the content and not least in terms of the high degree of acceptability and consent of all key institutions, stakeholders and the professional public.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution was addressed by the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development as the parent working body. For the Committee's report, I ask the Chairman of mags. Branca Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u72	Your Honor! It is also a very nice greeting to all on behalf of the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development, which the motion for a resolution on the National Higher Education Programme and, of course, together with the second resolution, resolution on the Research Innovation Strategy, discussed at its 16th meeting, on 5 May this year. In addition to the usual materials, all participants in the meeting also received a magnetogram of the public presentation of the opinions organised by the Committee earlier in April, which was extremely successful and very well argued, so that everyone could get acquainted with the positions given there. Also with other materials and with the opinion of the Council of State, whose representative also attended the meeting. Following consideration, the Committee adopted this resolution, namely a resolution on the National Higher Education Programme, a total of 8 amendments to the ruling coalition, two amendments to the SDS and four amendments tabled by Mr Tadej Slapnik, and they are covered together as amendments to the committee in the text itself. The resolution thus drafted was supported by the majority of members of the coalition in the vote and thus confirmed by the Committee at its second stage of its meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u73	Thank you very much. With regard to the motion for a resolution, the group of 27 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. In relation to the general debate, a presentation of the views of the groups of Members is followed. The first one has the floor, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Miran Györek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u74	Good day to all present. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary! Prior to the adoption of the final version of the resolution on the National Higher Education Programme in Parliamentary Higher Education, there were quite broad, including quality and rather controversial and critical debates. There have been dozens of additions, additions to proposals, some of which have been taken into account, but not many, so that the stated desire and willingness or openness on and for suggestions and broad consensus remain questioned. The fact is that the final motion for a resolution is here, before us in the National Assembly, and is waiting for adoption. A number of positive solutions have been proposed, particularly those that provide guidance for greater university autonomy, such as funding for the scientific research work of universities, human resources autonomy, decision-making on internal organisational structure and so on. Some of the guidelines are well established and meet the needs of time and our society. Unfortunately, there is also a motion for a resolution for guidance and a position which, with its restrictive characteristics and content, is not acceptable to the Slovenian National Party, such as setting the maximum number of universities, which in fact represents defending the status quo and avoiding competitiveness in this important sphere and consequently the issue of the qualitative development of higher education in the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian National Party, we also have reservations and concerns about the possibility of leaving employees at higher education institutions from the system of public servants and the salary system for civil servants. The lack of prepared more accurate projections and projections of the consequences of us, but above all, the employees of higher education institutions should be interested, as this will not be the case with them in the first place. There are also open questions in both the professional public and the political circles regarding the new definition of binaryity, i.e. the separation of university and professional study programmes. As it is said, the proposal also contains a number of positive guidelines and measures, if I point out only a few: improving the cooperation of higher education institutions with the economy and non-economic – a very important measure – an modernisation of the habilitation system, because the fact is that the existing system does not allow or ensure, to the desired extent, the selection of academic development of the best personnel. With regard to the structure of studies and higher education qualifications, exceptions in the length of studies and the definition of a single master's degree study and its implementation only in the field of regulated professions within the European Union are to be highlighted. Entry conditions are also laid down so that higher education institutions can also lay down additional entry conditions in addition to the general provisions. The universities will also be able to decide autonomously on the number of places of entry and the capacity to determine the number of places of entry for education programmes for regulated professions in the European Union for education for teachers and for professions relevant to life, human health will be checked and the Government or competent ministries will have to agree. We could, however, argue with guidelines on the implementation of doctoral studies, where the resolution foresees implementation only within the university, while today this can also be done through institutions that are not part of the university, which could also be interpreted as a kind of restrictive direction and in some way a step backwards. However, if such a focus contributes to greater competitiveness, including international, educational leadership, which have mainly been trained in universities and higher schools in Slovenia, it could also be regarded as positive, as we are all aware of the interrelationship and dependence of human resources competitiveness or the quality and competitiveness and efficiency of the real sector, i.e. the economy. The fact is that the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy is increasing, among other things, due to the non-competitiveness of our educated government staff. I would stress, however, that not only that, but I would not now be opening up other current issues, particularly those related to very problematic political and also clientelistic recruitment in the Republic of Slovenia. And it is precisely the issue of ensuring effective competitiveness in educational activities that requires effective action, and it is here that we consider in the Slovenian National Party that the resolution in question could contain more comprehensive content and precise definitions in this regard. Uncompetitive higher education and research innovation will certainly not and will not today provide incentives and assistance to the non-competitive Slovenian economy. Indeed, in this resolution, insufficiently developed guidance to achieve the competitive functioning of Slovenian higher education, universities and also research activities, which are separately and linkedly defined in the document to be processed under the next item of today's agenda, is what bothers us most in the Slovenian National Party and therefore we have legitimate concerns and reservations about the content of the resolution as a whole. In short, this issue is extremely important to our society. Finally, it is related to the issue of financing and cost-effectiveness, time-effectiveness and quality in general. We may not be aware enough of how important a cost-effectiveness element is to achieve the best possible results of education at the lowest possible price. We are all aware of the fact that education, in particular the education of innovative, internationally competitive personnel, is extremely expensive if not the most expensive thing that can come back very positive and effective for the welfare of Slovenian society, but can also mean a party to throw money away when there is a brain drain abroad. This is happening, not just to us, because it is becoming a global phenomenon. For many developed countries have long since come to appreciate the fact that it is much cheaper sometimes to import brains from abroad than to invest in something that does not guarantee a reliable return on investment costs. Let's take the United States of America, or in recent years, the Federal Republic of Germany. For the first century it has been implementing such a policy, it has practically succeeded in creating the conditions that it does not even need to steal the brain from abroad, it comes on its own, creating the greatest added value for an investor, which then expensively sells their products back to those who have actually invested high funds for the development of such brains. Perhaps this could also be a topic related to today's document, i.e. a resolution on the research and innovation strategy of the RS, which I have already said in the opening that both documents in this content segment are going to be fairly linked. In short, we all know how valuable the American school system is, let's say in general, but the Americans, as they say, don't think too much of themselves. The import of the brain, the top of the brain, practically costs nothing, has been done for centuries, as I said, and the results are evident in the global competitiveness of their economy as well as in successful prosperity. Throughout the century, thousands of Russian, Eastern European scientists, the top experts, have taken care of this and would find some — not just one — Slovenes among them. I can confirm my claim by strengthening the fact that the Germans also used such strategies and policies and, as an example, that a decade ago they established the appropriate conditions for imports of as many as 40,000 computer experts, both for hardware and software, mainly from India and Eastern European countries. Of course, they have previously worked out and analysed the law, as they say, cost efficiency in this area, and, as we can see, their decision was correct and today's results of their competitiveness certainly confirm this. So, what do we do now? Almost a Hamlet issue; we would expect in the Slovenian National Party that the starting points of both documents or resolutions and the main objectives of achieving international competitiveness and the cost-effectiveness of higher education, as well as in the other document presented, would be appropriate, which unfortunately does not guarantee the content to a satisfactory extent and therefore our justified reservations and concerns about the final adoption of this as well as other resolutions. If I finish. Even in the sense of the Slovenian National Party's position on the resolution on the RS research and innovation strategy, we can critically assess that, in addition to all the shortcomings mentioned, the chronic problem of our resolutions and programmes is that they are not being implemented in practice, often do not realize that they are more of a declaration project, more of a list of some wishes and unfulfilled measures and objectives. Most Slovenian governments have a short term syndrome, usually for one term, and few are interested in the long-term well-being and future of the Slovenian people. There is a belief in the air that there is no analytically non-political strategy and, as a result, what reliable visions in this area, but not only in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the LDS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Mr. Minister with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! Both the national higher education programme and the programme to be considered below, i.e. the resolution on the research and innovation strategy, are two important programmes. The debate on them was very welcome, and in particular the guidelines that both programmes or both strategies bring are extremely important, because we want Slovenia to achieve – not only at the declaration level, but also at the implementation level – a fundamental objective, namely that Slovenia wants to move forward as a knowledge society and that it will be able to respond in a dynamic and flexible way to the very rapid challenges posed by dynamic social development. Thus, there has been a public debate since the beginning of 2010 on the development of Slovenian higher education. Until the first draft of the National Higher Education Programme 2011-2020, which is the subject of this debate today, several experts and many individuals contributed to its concerns through the website and discussions in various forums, including the Rector's Conference of the Republic of Slovenia, the University of Ljubljana, the University of Maribor, the University of Primorsk, the Students' Organisations of Slovenia, some independent higher education institutions and others. The development of higher education and science was also discussed by institutions such as the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education, the Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Student Issues, the Council for Science and Technology of the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art and the Academy of Engineering of Slovenia. A number of analyses and data on higher education and analysis of past national programmes in the field of higher education and research and development have been prepared. The drafting of the National Higher Education Programme has conceptually taken into account these discussions and documents, data and facts on the state and trends and the overall challenges and issues raised. Such an understanding of these two documents was also reflected on the home working committee, where, in fact, the substantive orientations of this programme have also been largely confirmed. At the LDS, we are aware of the importance of the national programme for the development of higher education, and we have actively participated with initiatives and proposals in the development of the document ahead of us. In line with our views on the problems that the programme touches, we have stressed throughout all stages of the process the importance of promoting quality and achieving excellence, which are the only guarantee of a stable future for Slovenia. At the LDS Club, we are aware that a small and open economy such as Slovenia can survive only by promoting excellence and innovation. The aim should be to create high value-added jobs, to create a higher education and innovation system that is adequately financially supported, rational and efficient in the use of financial resources, applied and linked to the economy, with an education system that is open and competitive externally and not confined to the Slovenian framework alone. With the expected shifts to bring to the Slovenian high-school space the programme ahead of us and we support it in LDS, we would also like to draw attention to some of the warnings that come in the light of the adoption of this document. We need to understand and listen to the concerns of some who are not convinced of the relevance of leaving higher education institutions from the system of public servants, while at the same time we need to weigh this fear against the benefits of such a decision – with the higher degree of autonomy that these institutions and their employees would achieve with such a decision. At the LDS Club, we believe that it is absolutely necessary to optimise the availability of human and other resources from higher education institutions, but this optimisation cannot happen beyond the will of those who operate in these institutions. At the LDS Club, the National Programme for the Development of Higher Education, which is ahead of us, we read that this guardian is also included in the programme. At the same time, we warn the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology that in the preparation of the future legislative acts that will emerge from this resolution, they should be considered, as such interventions must bear the fruit of comprehensive reflection and analysis. In the opinion of the LDS, the following guidelines are crucial in the Slovenian higher education area, which are based on the LDS’s important position, namely that knowledge is a value. Let me just point out some of them. First of all, funding. The financing of the system must be at an appropriate level for a tool which represents the only long-term opportunity for Slovenia to join a group of so-called consensus companies whose basic characteristics are a high level of added value, consequently a high level of quality of life and the associated satisfaction of citizens, a sufficient amount of safe jobs, a high degree of democracy and the functionality of state institutions. These objectives, which we are also seeking in the LDS, can only be achieved through a modern, open higher education system closely linked to the economy and with an innovation system that is competitive and open to international space. At the same time, financial resources must ensure an appropriate relationship between students and educators, as only then will the Slovenian higher education system be able to create the competitive breakthrough that Slovenia needs. With respect to academic freedom, the higher education system must be geared towards producing quality as other important components of this programme, or excellence, for which measurable indicators must be established. In the LDS, we are convinced that this system must be a system that is aware of the needs of the environment in which it is located and which is capable of interacting with the outside world, a system that is geared towards global competitiveness on the part of both the providers and users. In this direction, of course, we also expect a substantial increase in the involvement of the national agency to ensure the quality of higher education. And finally, it must be a system that allows for flow, both external and internal, a system that uses financial resources rationally, without unnecessary duplication of consumption. While we support the idea of the binaryity of the higher education system at organisational level, in the context of rationality, which I have just mentioned, I would like to point out that, with the support of this idea, it would be good to avoid duplication of application in the field of infrastructure. With this in mind in the LDS, we stress that the higher education system should promote responsibility for the study and at the same time remedy the problem of high rash in the initial phase of the study. Only then will it become a system that will be responsive and directed in a direction that allows Slovenia to make a strategic breakthrough between the most competitive economies, where – we are confident in the LDS – Slovenia also judges. When we analyzed the resolution on the National Higher Education Programme at the LDS Club in the light of the above assumptions and guidelines, we came to the conclusion that this is a document that leads Slovenia in the right direction and deserves the support of our Group of Members. Of course, we want the starting points, guidelines and targets to be achieved through the legislation that will follow from this resolution, but, of course, we want actual financial support in documents such as budgets in the coming years, but of course, we expect its effective use and, of course, control over their use in increased spending. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Magajna will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u78	A respected minister with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! We read and hear that the current design of a strategic document is in a modern global economic socio-political situation, that it is no longer optimal, because it does not provide adequate definitions and clear guidance objectives, as well as horizontal links between policies and institutions that would care for the integrated role of higher education in the knowledge society. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we support the resolution because it is first-directed. Of course, even when we read the comments of stakeholders and factors, institutions, it is likely, we can also find here a number of issues and dilemmas that will not be resolved for a while. Some say that the resolution is excessively focused on the economy, while others say that it is insufficiently applied when it comes to connecting the university and the economy. Career path, habilitation system is appropriate or not. Here too, the dilemmas will remain open. Assistants, we know that after three years they have to prove themselves, teachers for five years, it's a little different for regular professors. This system is, in its own way, necessary, but is sometimes bureaucratic and stressful for all those who actually have to give in time and prove something that is sometimes intended for themselves, and here, in this system of habilitation, the matter should be studied and sought for new methods. The decline of 15 areas — now 85, if I am not mistaken, to 15 — I do not know if this is a good solution. For example, the teacher will have the appropriate title and the question of whether this title will be linked to his work. So this contraction can also be questionable. Another thing that really stabbed me, too. Decommissioning of researchers from the public service system. What are they gonna do? However, this dilemma is not a dilemma of this resolution, but the dilemma is the transformation of public institutions, which in fact has already been created by the 2006 Public-Private Partnership Act, where in fact the status of public workers becomes very questionable. And public servants, what they would be, it's also a big puzzle for lawyers, and as a result, what it means. Look, one area that we're probably not going to solve in this meeting is the rationalisation and transparency of the public network. Here we face another dilemma – the distinction between the private and public sectors. I mentioned the Law on Public-Private Partnership earlier. In practice, we get interesting hybrids, which also cause disorder, opacity, irrationality, and the question of how much the public sector can finance the private sector in a system where we have a public institution in a given territory. These are such principled dilemmas, which are likely to not be resolved today or by this resolution. Otherwise, as we say, we support direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with a fellow Member, Members and Members of Parliament! The National Higher Education Programme 2011-2020 and the Research and Innovation Strategy of Slovenia 2011-2020 are extremely important documents that define the direction of development of Slovenia in the long term, and it is not surprising that they have triggered many and controversial responses in the public. Orientation for 2020 should act as an incentive to overcome the existing situation, as the projections of the European Union and the OECD also remind us of inevitable changes in higher education. Unfortunately, in Slovenian debates this does not have an appropriate reflection, which is probably also due to years of neglect of research and professional debate on higher education and research activities. In doing so, it is worrying that there is a tendency to maintain the status quo when it is clear that changes are more than necessary. Both national programmes are faced with great difficulty that Slovenia does not have a relevant long-term plan on which research priorities could be pursued, and also an unaccepted national qualification framework on which the future higher education system could be based. In addition to this, or precisely because of this, the public debate has left out the view of the economy that should be most interested in such a development of higher education and science, which would most effectively support the exit from crisis situations. The main support of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, written in its position and repeated at the meeting of the parent working body, is important because it says as follows: "The Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia considers both documents to be extremely positive and important for the development of Slovenia, as they adequately place the role of higher education and science, both in the social development of Slovenia and in the creation of added value and contribution to the competitiveness of the economy. It is necessary to adopt both documents as a basis for urgent legal changes, to continue the already launched and also to take new measures in the field of smart investment in development." I shall also use this reference to point out that, in support of both documents, such encouraging statements could also be accompanied by incentives or calls for the document not to be supported. The European Higher Education Area is changing radically towards full openness and international competitiveness. It is not enough to distribute positions within the country, but it is much more important what our higher education and research activities represent in the international space. This must be followed by systemic changes and government policies and, with greater intensity, the business policy of higher education institutions. A concerted performance is needed and both programmes should therefore express at least a relative consensus on significant changes, which is not traceable after a public debate and a public presentation of opinions. If we come from majority support to documents at the parent committee meeting, and compare this with individual calls for the suspension of both resolutions, it has finally taken over the realization that there is a great responsibility on the proposalers to effectively draft laws based on, in an integrated manner, the good starting points set out in the national higher education programme, while ensuring the effective charging of the development pillar, as many measures provide for funding from this source. To sum up the concluding thought from the letter of the rector of the University of Maribor. At first, the almost well-agreed opposition of higher education and research institutions to both programmes created a deceptive impression that they are all united in terms of the perspective by 2020. Only the proponents of both documents want something else. In fact, the degree of consistency in both spheres is painfully inadequate and there are ongoing and harmful internal conflicts on the agenda. We can also have different views on the inevitability of all the proposed objectives and measures and see the need for an open exchange of views on this. Therefore, an additional time has been needed for the debate, but a clear will is also needed to bring the views of the most urgent changes together, instead of a general rejection of any deviation from the existing situation. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we consider the adoption of amendments that better place art in the National Higher Education Programme, define law studies and introduce some other amendments to the original text, including opposition ones. Of course, I do not mention before this all those comments that were included in the original text in the public debate or after the public debate. And now let me say a few more views or views on the document that we have discussed in the Social Democrats' Group of Members of Parliament since we met, and have met several times with the participants in higher education. And I would say this – first of all, the strong belief that knowledge needs to be defined as a common public good – I stress, public good, not only as a value – even though it flows more and more into the private sphere, commercialisation is spreading, except in humanities, which localizes knowledge; for example, history differs from country to country that we are not talking about literature. Another time. Universities have always been a global sphere, except in recent years, and the question of how to strike a balance is now again raised. In Slovenia, we do not have a centre that deals with the development of university education, which is also reflected in supranational structures that design a future higher education policy, where Slovenia is rarely included today – as far as I know – is one of Dr. Paula Zgaga's rare. Third time. In the OECD, where the 2030 Higher Education Year target year, there are four sets of scenarios for the development of higher education: an open network – these are all forms at the second level of education – and local higher education systems – all activities are carried out only in relation to the local environment – and market orientation – is a matter of contracting with the country and businesses, and a company – a higher education is only a business. Universities can operate in a traditional or entrepreneurial way in the open market as a global institution, such as MBA, and as technology or certification institutions. In doing so, I should point out that we cannot ignore the fact that the aim is to allow graduates to enter the labour market. More unemployed graduates from Slovenia, where this rate is 9%, have only Greece, 14%. Something to do with the existing situation in Slovenia. We have 4 universities, one of which is private, 30 single schools or colleges, 70 universities and over 700 programs, without defined criteria to justify these names. It is therefore necessary to add that two European types will emerge by 2020 when the new national programme expires: a research type and a type that takes account of modern communication opportunities and means is said to be an open university. For the Social Democrats, it is very important in the framework of the higher education system – and we have made this comment, and we believe that it is also taken into account – that a proper legal framework for the functioning of higher education institutions and the protection of autonomy should be ensured; in the context of changes in the status and legal form, the conditions for the quality, response and autonomy of higher education institutions should be ensured under the current legislation. With regard to funding, we stress to the Social Democrats that the State should also finance studies in higher education institutions, but only those programmes of private higher education institutions for which the need for the environment will be demonstrated or implemented at a significantly higher level than in public higher education institutions should be financed from public funding. The criteria for co-financing private higher education programmes and institutions should be defined by law. Well, we also had a lot of comments on the placement of the language issue in the resolution. We believe that this document, as far as language is concerned, should be in line with the resolution on the National Programme for Language Policy. Of course, the question of the implementation of the study process in a foreign language is raised here, which we believe should only be allowed provided that the same programmes are implemented in Slovenian in parallel. Why? Politicians follow the consolidation of English as a scientific language, especially under the backdrop of terms such as international, internationally comparable and competitive. But science must reach people; as Slovenians, we can only reflect on knowledge in our own language. Finally, the Rector's Conference expressed its skepticism towards the full opening of a higher education space in a foreign language. However, I will conclude with the already mentioned problem or forecast the possibility of leaving the public servants system. In doing so, the Social Democrats are still reminded of how much resistance has been given to the integration of university staff into the system of public servants. Now that the possibility of leaving higher education teachers and researchers from the public servants system is open, the opinion is quite the opposite. Of course, it is possible to look at this from two exemplary angles: leaving the system of public servants in the opinion of some provides greater autonomy, and others, especially those opposed to exit, cannot be overheared of warnings about criminal employment that are already detectable in higher education and could be even more. My purpose in presenting the Group's position was not to draw attention to everything that had opened up to us in the parliamentary group when this programme was being discussed. We would only like to point out that there is an important document before us, which we expect to be implemented in legislation and that it will be implemented in a direction that I have mentioned in particular in some of our principal definitions. Of course, the Social Democrats Group will support the text of the National Higher Education Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u82	Dearly beloved everyone, also on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party! Now that we are talking about the resolution on the National Higher Education Programme for the next decade, we would probably expect a large participation, a great interest, but today it is slightly different. Why is that? I think it's very easy to analyze. Let us first look at the legal nature of the resolution. The resolution is an act by which the National Assembly defines its own policy for a longer period. We accept it on a proposal from the Government, and it is logical that the Government will therefore send resolutions to Parliament at the beginning of its mandate, when there is sufficient time for what it adopts to then transform into laws and later implement them in practice. That makes sense. This act came to Parliament practically at the end of this government. If there is no formal end to the term of office, the fact that there is very much talk at this time about early elections and it is only a matter of time – whether it is a period of month, two, a little more – and also, if until the end of the term of office, it is a period of years when the current collapse of the coalition appears to be very turbulent, so the question is, of course, whether the resolution as such falls within that period. We would expect a law to grow, and the resolution is something else. That's probably why it's such a reaction. Not to mention only the time remaining until the end of the term of office, it is in this case another purely special circumstance, which must already be presented with some humor, because it is so special that without humor it is difficult to understand. In the days of the Warsaw Pact, there was a joke in the Czech Republic saying, "What is the best news? The Russians are leaving, all of a sudden. And what's the longest news? The Russians are leaving, one at a time, one at a time." If we paraphrase this: “What is the best news for Slovenia? The government leaves, one by one, one by one." And the minister who proposed the resolution, that is, a long-term act for a decade, announced at the same time that, at the end of this month, he would resign as minister – let someone take it seriously, and that is probably why there are so many empty seats in front of me. This is why this area, which is certainly extremely important, extremely important for the further development of Slovenia, today does not experience the participation, the attention it undoubtedly deserves, because simply everyone in this Chamber as a politician is aware of the current moment and the actual range of this government. It was said that “resolution is experiencing universal support”. I must say that I led a public presentation of opinions, right in this room, and then, ladies and gentlemen, there was an appropriate participation, there were Deans of many colleges, there were Rectors of the University, there were many directors of scientific institutes, there were other professional colleagues, there were many independent researchers, and there were people from a wider circle of politics and science. It was extremely good participation, but there was also exceptional criticism, particularly to this document, to the document on the National Higher Education Programme. If you go to see a magnetogram of this public presentation of opinions – I have it here, it is this thick bang, but it is also online, so that everyone can see it – you will see that the vast majority of participants were critical to the document, completely unreserved, except the proposaler in fact was not supported by anyone, the proponent is, of course, the government or the minister. Many, however, have made an explicit commitment to this [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u83	Mr Grimes, no offense, they're supposed to represent the views of the Group of Members, let's get a little bit of this straight, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u84	Dear Mr Potrč, I believe it bothers you if I speak of the essence of the story, but I am speaking specifically about the resolution on the National Programme of Higher Education and the matters which are essential to the decision of the individual in this Parliament as a Member, the parties as a whole and the Parliament as a whole. Yours, too, Mr President, so I suggest you listen carefully to me and follow the Rules of Procedure and do not interfere with my word. Those few few Members and Members of the Coalition who are now chatting vehemently, you can remind them to listen as well. We are, as you know, opposed to this resolution, but to come up with arguments why, allow me to proceed with the introduction. When it was said that it is individual votes against, and also behind this counter, I would remind you that only in the last 24 hours have we all received two important statements against, even at this moment, besides those expressed here in dozens, in this Chamber, to publicly present opinions. One by the Committee on the Defence of Higher Education and Scientific Work on Planned Reforms is more important to me personally, and the other is signed by Dr. Janez Posei and is a negotiating group of public-sector trade unions, so someone speaks on behalf of the vast majority of those who are also actually concerned by this motion for a resolution. And what does he say when he speaks on behalf of the public sector unions as the far most important trade unions covering this area? "We oppose both resolutions, too, because they show the political will to break the single wage system of public servants. According to our assessment, it is only an introduction to the extremely harmful disintegration of the system of public servants. The motion for a resolution deliberately examined the views of the negotiating group of public-sector trade unions, which we opposed to doing so as early as last summer, the basis for the drafting of the resolution." The unions have therefore given timely warning to the Government about their comments, as is the custom in this mandate, when, while most of the parties that make up the ruling coalition are extremely much to talk about social dialogue, the social dialogue has again been trampled on and is simply revamped at the views of trade unions. It further pursues its policy to satisfy certain political interests, probably at the moment in view of public opinion polls and the collapse of the coalition and the government, but according to the principle that once on the ground, at least you can fall anywhere else. But such a policy does not lead this country anywhere else, it only leads to further setbacks and I am sorry that it does. What is the content of this resolution, in fact, if I summarise those comments made so clearly in this public presentation of the opinions? I will release some who touched on the arrangements of the individual areas, and then were to some extent corrected by the amendments adopted by the committee I am leading in the National Assembly. A key and fundamental comment that touches on the whole resolution is what it actually means for Slovenia. Every area of social life, all history teaches it, develops its entire development potential only if it is exposed to the wind of competition. This resolution, however, is very interesting in terms of the question of conservativeness, but conservative in the true sense of the word. In fact, what does the word conservative or conservative mean in the true sense of the word. This is an attempt to preserve an existing state or to take another step back. This is the extremely conservative approach. For example, after the first democratic elections – in these days we celebrate exactly the 20th anniversary of Slovenian independence – surely the most conservative party in Slovenia was the then Union of Communists, which, together with its colleagues from former sociopolitical organizations, wanted to make the most of the claim that I would not change anything. This is an extremely conservative approach. And in this case, we can assess that the biggest substantive flaw in the resolution on the national higher education programme is that it is extremely conservative, because it is clearly intended to preserve the positions already acquired, either by individuals or by certain established institutions or groups in the existing system. Is this really in Slovenian national interest? With all my responsibility and on behalf of the SDS, I say no. On the contrary, Slovenia should open up competition on the inside and outside as much as possible in the field of science and higher education. The competition of younger professors against older ones, the competition of those who are only newly formed as professors against those who have for many years, some have even held these positions for many decades. And then there is a need for competition between institutions, an absolutely unsustainable provision in this resolution that three universities are exactly what Slovenia needs is no longer necessary. Yes, by what logic and in what way can this be said? Right through your thumb, so you can protect someone who has what they have. In comparison, I mentioned a long time ago how many universities have, say, some of the countries that are more successful in development, such as Taiwan – they go into dozens, even hundreds of these numbers, and no one challenges them, and many of them are very high on the competitiveness scales of universities that are published publicly – not to mention our first and second neighbours Austria, Germany, etc. In short, cases of competitiveness within and outside the country, openness to science and higher education, out of the question, being essential for long-term development are as many cases as you want. Why is there now an attempt, in some artificial way, to prevent the establishment of actual competition? Clearly, this is a very conservative approach, which is of the will of the present rulings, but these rulings are leaving. Then what is the point of adopting such a resolution today and here? Apparently, it's one attempt at pharaohs, an act of impression, "but for the end we did something else," but what is the value of this act? Even if another law is then passed on a horace, the current authority’s mandate is apparently to expire. And any next one will be – I firmly believe it will be the SDS, but the voters will decide, I may be wrong – but whatever it is, it will certainly have faster development as a fundamental and basic interest. However, faster development without the full involvement of science, development, intelligence, universities, higher education simply cannot be achieved, and this will not be achieved without opening the door to competition within institutions and, of course, on the outside. Without this faster development, this is one of the fundamental conditions that Slovenia should achieve. For all these reasons, of course, in the SDS this resolution on the National Higher Education Programme 2011-2020 opposes and we will vote against.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u85	Thank you very much. At the warning of the presence in the Chamber, only a notice. At a time when he's a magician. Grims pointed out that, there were 7 MEPs and members of the Social Democrats, 5 Slovenian Democratic Party and one from Zares, from the Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS. I think it's the right thing to say. Mr Grims, you have no procedural question because we have a presentation of the views of Members and Members. And I'm sure you won't object to my exact findings. Mr. Franco Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u86	Mr. Potts, the time when the avant-garde read minds and made decisions on behalf of others has passed. You're obviously reading minds. Your time's up, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u87	Mr. Franco Yuri has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. It is difficult to perform after such a virtuoso speech, I would not attribute this strategy to a resolution due to such a mass presence of Members, but the fact is that it is Friday, that it is afternoon and there is no voting today; such images are common. The resolution on the national higher education programme comes at the right time. For the first time because we were late in the development of higher education and science in Slovenia, and for the second time because we were experiencing a lack of a comprehensive vision and strategy, for the third time because knowledge is the central basis on which development should be planned, fourthly because it is necessary to set the right priorities in today's state of economic crisis. And the real priority is certainly knowledge and investment in higher education, which has driven the spiritual social, cultural, artistic and economic development of our society as a whole. The national programme is certainly well structured, offering clear objectives and guidelines for the development of higher education as well as responsibilities for implementation. If we are to leave not only a dead letter on paper, we need the involvement of all higher education stakeholders and social actors. This is what the resolution offers and the actors accept the offer. The resolution was supported by all key partners at a recent meeting of the parent committee: universities, Rector's Conference, students, employers, research institutes. In fact, we do not recall ever receiving such support. It means that the actors accept their role as highlighted by the programme and commit themselves to the implementation of the objectives and objectives of the programme. It must be acknowledged that one segment of civil society concerned is also critical to this document in order to be discovered. All the parliamentary groups have also had the opportunity to listen to some representatives – both the trade unions, Mr Posei visited the Zares Group yesterday – as well as the opposition to the movement of the University. And despite the fact that all the objections, all the criticisms and expectations are certainly legitimate, it is necessary to call once again on the interlocutors and representatives of critical civil society to read this document well and find some answers that they have obviously overlooked. We could bring down quite a few such interesting criticisms and questions that we could answer today. One has already been raised – the issue of the exit or expulsion of higher education teachers from the system of public servants. In the view of one part of the union, this can, of course, mean a derogation from that guaranteed social security. Others believe that this is not the case, as only the possibility of such a solution is given. The resolution, for the first time, as has already been said, is not law, is a document where a strategy is laid down and is intended, and the possibility of a way out means exactly the opposite of what some claim is conservative. It would be conservative if we kept the system closed and did not allow the university to define, based on its own autonomy, all the options that the resolution must provide. I remember discussing the status of journalists. Something similar can happen with the status of university workers. But I would like to quote another unionist who, of course, did not wish to be quoted by the predecessor, Mr Branimir Strukl, who says: "I would like to speak to you about the proposed measure, or which allows for the possibility of employees in higher education institutions to step out of the salary system of public servants. So this is not some kind of category imperative, it's just a possibility to think about it, and that's how I take it." And that's it. Other objections, which are also legitimate and which already have answers in this document, relate to certain other aspects. For example, when critics of this document speak and frighten with the possibility of introducing suspended tuition, there is no basis for this concern. Or indications that students wishing to study in parallel on two programmes will have to pay for their own studies on another programme. That's just not true. This must be denied and the public concerned must be reassured. Most of the criticism also goes to the exposed usefulness of higher education study, knowledge, research, innovation. Fear exists that too much university, knowledge and research will be intertwined with the economy. This raises the fear that the university will increasingly depend on the economy. This fear is not justified either. Firstly, because this document provides full autonomy to higher education studies and university studies to researchers, and in this context, it is okay if the final product or the ultimate creativity of the university is also innovation, which can be useful, why not, even for the economy. So, I call on the critics and, in particular, the representatives of the movement of the University, we are to take a good look at the dialogue on the role of knowledge, the role of innovation, where it is not necessary only for a black and white picture, whether the university is subordinate to the economy or is completely distant from the economy and has nothing to do with the economy. There is probably also an intermediate path, which is only right today, so that the autonomy of the university is ensured that knowledge is already autonomous by default. But when it becomes useful, it is only a good thing, because best practices in Europe, starting with social entrepreneurship, with cooperatively organised entrepreneurship, prove that investment in knowledge is the most effective in those cases, and that where corporations or cooperatives are created, based on a social model of economic but also scientific organisation, the university becomes a place where knowledge is established where innovation is established and where they become public good. Publicly, it means that they are also becoming meaningful and functional to improve economic conditions. So, the social moment of this understanding of knowledge I think is extremely important. I would still find answers to all the open questions, and I hope that this debate will continue constructively, because the resolution is actually the basis for the debate, the basis for the emerging legislation that will implement all these objectives. The national priority programme sets high quality higher education, diversity and diversity, broad accessibility and, which is also important, innovation and – not conservative – internationalisation. However, the modernisation of the structure of the study and funding system offers support to four priorities. To enable universities to play their part in society, they will gain more autonomy and thus answer the questions that the academic community must resolve within itself. In doing so, we will demand results and achieve concrete objectives; greater flexibility, quality, efficiency, transfer of knowledge, cooperation, international attractiveness are only some of the key orientations of the programme. By following this direction, we will be able to place higher education in the right place within our society and provide it with appropriate support and commitment. I therefore point out that we will really support the resolution on the National Higher Education Programme in the Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The resolution on the National Higher Education Programme is, of course, a key strategic document in the field of higher education, which is the basis for the design and modernisation of the Slovenian higher education system in this decade. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we estimate that the motion for a resolution brings some improvements in the implementation of the Bologna reform, which, in our view, has brought a great deal of confusion into the higher education system in our country. The level of quality of graduates has declined and its effects are exactly the opposite of planned, as the study time has extended instead of shrinking. This is due mainly to poorly prepared education programmes at the first Bologna level, which have evaluated university studies, and to the pressure of college students to a second Bologna level, which is equivalent at the national qualification framework level to old university programmes. As a result of this, the evaluation of the first-degree Bologna diploma, which represents only the conditions for admission to second-degree Master's degree and is often incompatible with the old diploma. It should be borne in mind that in such a short period of time and with inadequate study programmes, a student cannot acquire all the knowledge he needs for a sovereign performance in the labour market. It is therefore necessary to amend the programmes. In our view, this issue is partially addressed by programmatic and institutional binaryism, which is one key solution to the resolution under consideration. All higher education actors note that there is a major problem in the simultaneous implementation of higher education and university study programmes, as the programmes in a number of colleges are virtually indistinguishable, carried out by the same professors, with the same evaluation criteria and in the same premises. This, in our view, puts university and university students in an unequal position, and this type of regulation in many ways reduces the quality of university studies. This is why it is certainly necessary to distinguish between both types of studies, which is also the subject of the motion for a resolution, but the question is how to ensure this, without jeopardising the interconnection between professional and scientific research, which is particularly important in the area of development and innovation. We also assess the need to ensure a formal link between the economy and the university study, which is originally dedicated to scientific research, and not just the link between the economy and the higher education vocational study, for which, according to the motion for a resolution, the so-called polytechnics will be most indebted. Scientific research must not be directed solely to itself, left in some cocoon that has nothing to do with real life, but the results of the research work must be directed towards faster development of the economy and our society in general. In our view, researchers from higher education should be provided with a direct transition to the economy, as the number of researchers in the economy has been proven to be linked to the level of added value, which I will focus in more detail on at the next item on the agenda. I would also like to draw attention to the next thing that seems very important and valuable to us in the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. This is the relationship between graduates of science or technical sciences and graduates of social sciences, law and economics. It is not necessary to close your eyes that the country has deliberately encouraged entry into these areas over the past 20 years, as the number of places of entry in the field of sociology has increased each year, as has the recent years as mushrooms in the rain, with a variety of independent higher education institutions, particularly in the fields of social sciences and economics, which offer a much faster and faster path to diplomacy. But young people don't get jobs after graduation. In Slovenia, in 2008, about 50 per cent of graduates from the fields of social science, economics and law were graduates. At the same time, in countries where we like to follow our example, the percentage was significantly lower — in Finland only 26 percent, in Austria 27 percent, and in Germany only 23 percent. Members of the Slovenian People's Party are aware that every society needs educated people in all sectors of science, both in sociology and in science, but somewhere there is a need to set a limit and rationally consider whether public expenditure is worth constantly increasing for certain categories of education in which individuals at the end of the educational process do not have a future. It is unacceptable, however, that the system of funding for higher education, which operates by simple logic – more students or diplomats are equal to more money – encourages this disproportionately. Of course, it is difficult to interfere with the autonomy of universities, but the fact that our country will have to think the way developed countries have started decades ago is that it will have to regulate study places according to the expected needs of the market, since otherwise the already high number of unemployed graduates will increase to levels. This inconceivable will not contribute to greater competitiveness and higher quality of life in Slovenia, but this would lead to even greater apathy among young people, and would also accelerate brain escape. Let me finish this slowly. In the SLS Group, we agree in principle with the proposed resolution because we assess that changes in the Slovenian higher education system are essential if we want to improve the competitiveness of our higher education system and create a knowledge society that will drive our country out of the crisis among the most developed countries in the world. However, we stress that the principle of the wish contained in the resolution can only be achieved through appropriate legislation and the hard work of all actors in the field of higher education in us, both in higher education, students and students, as well as in the countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Your Honor, Mr Vice President. A respected minister with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! Two important strategic resolutions are before us for the next 10 years. The first is a resolution in the National Higher Education Programme and the second is a resolution on the Slovenian Research and Innovation Strategy. Since both documents are linked, we will present a common position on both documents in the DeSUS Group. The two motions for a resolution are one thing in particular: that they both provide for a rise in the share of GDP in both areas. Thus, the share of higher education resources from the current 1.2% of GDP by 2020 is expected to increase to 2% of GDP and the share of R & D resources would rise from the current almost 0.9% to 1% of GDP. Such an increase, according to the DeSUS Group, is essential if we are to promote quality, increase mobility, international involvement and the international attractiveness of the Slovenian higher education and research space. Compared to more developed EU countries or OECD countries, however, we are lagging behind in RS in expenditure on higher education and scientific research. The second thing that is common to both documents is that both resolutions cover a long period and put the key resources of the country, that is, people, at the forefront. The two resolutions also aim in particular to strengthen the autonomy of public institutions and at the same time to increase their level of responsibility and to increase the efficiency of spending. In this place, the DeSUS Group gives us a thought to what this autonomy will really mean. Whether this will mean, as opposed to the resolution, that a pyramid system of hierarchy will be established, where a handful of leaders will decide on working conditions, on the way and content of work, on the payment system for employees, even if we know that there is a tendency towards the exclusion of universities from the public servants system. The public debate on both documents has been taking place for more than half a year and a major part of the professional and interested public has been included. Among the proposals, institutional binary was the biggest opposition, with university study programmes being carried out only at universities and university vocational studies with the establishment of so-called polytechnics. In this way, the Ministry also wanted to put pressure in place towards the establishment of more and more university centres. This is the right measure on the one hand, and on the other hand it gives a monopoly to the existing three public universities, which they recognise even in university circles. The National Higher Education Programme 2011-2020 is based on the Slovenian Development Strategy and Europe 2020. Measures to further develop higher education are addressed in the long term and together with the research and innovation strategy and the resolution on the National Programme for Culture, as the five-year programmes are too short to achieve strategic objectives. This has been demonstrated in experience with past national programmes, both in the field of higher education and research activities. The national programme is meaningfully linked to the whole area of tertiary education, which is also created by higher education institutions. The programme also includes integration with the economy, science and scientific and cultural policies. In the latter view, it is complementary to the proposed research and innovation strategy of Slovenia 2011-2020. This place is starting to wonder whether colleges will only turn into some kind of developmental department of the economy. We also find it difficult to agree with the position that has been heard during the public debate in order for the public administration to express its gratitude to the economy for providing it with money for wages. The number of students in Slovenia has been steadily increasing in recent decades, with the exception of the last three years, when the generation decline has already begun to reflect. The inclusion of the "typical generation" in higher education is high – the inclusion of 19-year-olds in higher education is 50.3% in 2008 – and comparable to other European countries is above average. At the same time, we have a high proportion of students who do not complete the study. OECD data show that 35% of enrolled students do not complete studies. Studies in our country also last longer than in other European countries. The proposal for a national higher education programme provides for the reimbursement of tuition if the student does not complete a second stage study. In the DeSUS Group, we are interested in whether this will be a universal measure or whether it will look from the case to the case where the reasons for the student's failure to complete the study are relevant. In Slovenia, the number of highly educated people has increased. Thus, 11.7% of adults with higher education and higher education were in 1991 and 22.6% in 2008. The education of the Slovenian population at tertiary level is not enough for ambitious projections of the needs of our society. In 2020, the need for highly educated staff will therefore be 31.1% among the working population. It is also not comparable to the best countries in the EU. In 2007, for example, France had about 26% of highly educated workers and the Netherlands had about 30% and Belgium and Denmark had 31%. In addition, demographic trends for Slovenia show a significant decline in the population by 2060. As early as 2020, the number of 19-year-olds, i.e. the generation usually enrolled in higher education institutions, will fall by 20% compared to 2010. We are also lagging behind at the level of the best educated, as we have a small proportion of doctors of science per population compared to the developed countries of the European Union. We also have significantly fewer employed doctors of science in the economy than in other countries of the European Union. This is why the introduction of tuitions is even less meaningful. Finally, we just want to express our concern about the existence of Slovenian language in Slovenian public universities. We were warned from academic circles that both documents favored foreign language lectures too much. English is thus to become practically the main language of Slovenian public universities. Slovenian scientists are already facing the disappearance of Slovenian professional literature. Most of the articles are written in English. In the DeSUS Group, we hope that our concern for Slovenian language is over and that Slovenian professional language will remain the priority of Slovenian universities. In the DeSUS Group, we will support both motions for resolutions, despite some of the concerns expressed and warnings of the professional public. The resolution is, after all, not a binding one, but a starting point for the preparation of the relevant legislation, and we hope that it will be prepared as qualitatively as possible, in cooperation with the interested professional and lay public, in order to avoid their concerns and demands being consistently ignored. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u93	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate on the motion for a resolution. Mr Franco Juri is to be the first to debate. He won't discuss it. Mr Ivan Grill will discuss the preparation of Mrs Silva Črnugelj. Mr. Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u94	Thank you very much. This resolution or both resolutions, at least for me, are extremely important strategic documents. This somehow paves the way for many years in advance and this would be some sort of red thread, on the basis of which the development of higher education and also innovation activities would try to develop and follow this. But that's the way it is, obviously this picture doesn't show. For the first time, that this important item is listed on Friday afternoon, this is unusual, indeed, even on a day without a vote, and therefore the participation of Members is relatively modest. Last but not least, look, I'm sure that people watching this debate could hear a lot of things, but now I'm sure there's a lot less audiences at this point. But look, last but not least, it would make the most sense that this resolution or both resolutions, I am speaking now for both of us, of course, would be rejected. Why? Firstly, it is not a resolution or a document that will be valid for the duration of this mandate, but it is a document that, as I said, would have been for a few years in advance. And it would be right that this act, which would be drawn up or prepared on the basis of a greater consensus, would be such an expert public, not least of all political, including us Members. And here we see that there's a huge gap. And it seems very symptomatic or unusual to me that the Minister, who has announced his resignation, is now advocating this resolution. This is not the most reliable document that anyone who withdraws from this position represents and defends him. And what this means – that he will no longer have to deal with these problems that this resolution, if implemented, would no longer have to deal with. But there are problems. Perhaps the best way to illustrate is to read a few lines of the document that we have received from all Members, at least I think. This means on the part of the professional public, look at what he wrote; “The proposal – the Ministry mentions – gave a big picture of democracy at the time of the preparation of both documents, and in the final texts he ignored most of the comments of individuals and institutions operating in both areas. [[…]] With proposals, the proposal has prevented students, teachers and researchers, and we also intend to play out the decision of the legislator [[…]] set out the purpose and framework of both documents in the law on research and development activities.” Look, those lines that didn't come from political parties, I think they can say a lot. Then, this is also interesting: "Both programmes also predict obstacles to the training of the best students at doctoral level. Limitation of doctoral study for three years, adaptation of the study programme for the acquisition of entrepreneurial skills and conditionalisation of funding for doctoral candidates with external mentors, in particular from the economy...« Then this: “The changes in the training of young scientists will lead to the fact that scientific sciences in the future will no longer be able to ensure an adequate transfer of knowledge to younger generations.” Finally, this is a call to all of us: "If the National Assembly confirms the document, Slovenia will voluntarily opt for colonial dependence by giving up its own development and critical social reflection." That is why, of course, they are proposing to all of us that we reject such a document. Of course, I will reject this document, and not just because of this letter, even in general. This document, as it is, is certainly a step back. Mrs. Potrata, that's exactly what happens if you're laughing so sweetly or cynically. No, she's laughing at me. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u95	Stop the debate from the bench! Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u96	That's right, Mr. Chairman. And so few of them are restless. Who's he laughing at again? Otherwise, look, as I said, this document certainly does not represent any better and effective development of higher education that we all bet on. We are all aware, all of us, that only higher education, knowledge, development can draw us from the situation we are in, and we can even make an oasis in this part of Europe. But look, not with a document like that. Why do we not promote competitiveness? Why are we shutting down college space or university space, why are we limiting the number of universities? I didn't agree to the principle of university in every village or every place, but where conditions exist or will arise, why limit it? Specifically, New City. A long time ago, it could have, and it could have earned its university, and it has all the conditions. Of course, there would be more if the policy and the state were to do so. Everyone there is striving, a strong economy, a lot of academic potential that could certainly contribute to those institutions, colleges, institutes, a lot of new knowledge, they don't have these possibilities. Look how hard that environment is. From economic operators to not least municipal councils, including Members, at least some of us are trying, but unfortunately, unfortunately, we have not moved the matter even by a millimeter in this mandate. We have succeeded in the previous term, and I am sure that we will also be in next year, whether this resolution is adopted or not. Doctor's degree. Why, as this resolution states, should it be closed or allowed, or should it be implemented only at universities? Why, in this way, degrade a number of institutions that are very successful in providing doctoral studies and have come up with proven excellent scientists from this out, but this is where it closes again. So, look, I'd probably spend the whole time trying to explain all these things here, commenting on all the bad solutions that they are, but here the most eloquent was the very public presentation of opinions, where we could mainly have listened by the professional public to more or less very critical assessments, thoughts, and here this was not taken into account. So that, as I have said, I will not support this document, even though the coalition will, at least according to the positions of the sent groups – the coalition is formal and informal, and DeSUS is obviously still part of this story. If you support, be aware that you are doing a left-wing service to our young people, especially our higher education area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u97	Thank you. Mrs. Silva Montenegro has the floor. Get Mr. Franz Jurša ready, followed by Milenko Ziherl. Here you go, Mrs. Nigga.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u98	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Hello, Minister and coworkers, dear colleagues and colleagues! I must admit that – no, I am not so shocked or, despite the fact that we are really used to everything in this national assembly, as our colleague Franco Juri said in his debate – such deception, perfidious deception and manipulation, not least with colleagues and then also with the public, I have not seen for a long time. First of all, the report of the Committee, which was very cheaply read by the president of the Higher Education Committee, is written, one would say, very flawed. Here, some on the resolution Pursuant to Rule 109 of the Rules of Procedure and Article 109 of the Rules of Procedure, the DZ resolution assesses the situation, sets out the policy and the adoption of national programmes in specific areas, that is to say that this is a purely normal way and procedure for adoption. [[…]] On the committee we supported Members and Members, of course in a proportional number, the resolution and many amendments! This means not only amendments by the coalition, but also amendments by the opposition. There were a lot of them. That is to say, manipulation is in such a way that one would say that this resolution, this national programme has not been discussed, and we can conclude that for months we have had a public debate, and that each individual - by his own words, who had 5 minutes of time passed by the DZ - has been able to convey his opinion to each of the Members and, finally, to the members of the Ministry and the Minister himself. Of course, I must commend the work of the Editorial Board and the two editors who issued the book and the work of the complete DZ which produced a copy of this national programme. Why do some have such joy that they deceive and manipulate the public and, not least, with colleagues and colleagues who have not been on the committee and who have not suffered all the things that we have had the opportunity to hear and discuss on the committee, as well as many amendments? I don't know, I admit that I don't personally understand this, because in this case, we've discussed a number of national programmes, resolutions, strategies, and we actually know how long it's been going on. Unfortunately, I don't have a minute or a time limit, as far as DZ was concerned about this national programme, only a large number. The critical public, which is highly educated, very critical, extremely critical – these are many professors, doctors of science, who, of course, know comparative studies from all areas and continents, not only from Europe, but also from America – they knew how to say what and how to expect in Slovenia, how this higher education will develop, which, of course, has undergone some changes in the past 20 years. The proposed national programme is, of course, a compromise of all possible proposals, solutions, initiatives presented in the National Assembly and in numerous public debates throughout Slovenia and at universities. It is true that some of the higher schools have not been seen in some segments, but the amendments have allowed this to be slightly softened or, of course, the loudest ones, including GEA College, the Age and also the University of the Sea, or the New York University, have only been identified in the text and have actually seen some improvements in the current developments in this national programme. But well, the situation is that we do not have the opportunity to see how and how the debate took place, that it was quality, quality, with a lot of tolerance, with a lot of one patient dialogue – which one would say – shows that all those who participated, however, went across one border, a new frontier of cultural dialogue. And they commended all those who participated in the drafting of this national programme, because this is actually hard and hard work; I think, even though those workers from the mine may not feel this in one way of working hard, but actually it was not easy work. And, of course, I congratulate all those who have participated in this once again, and I think that, despite Friday, Friday is a working day, that we can still discuss this today, of course those who have a wish and who think it is worth discussing this programme, but I think it is. Let me read that the resolution on the National Higher Education Programme has taken into account the following principal starting points – which is of course important for the resolution to take into account the principal starting points –: equality of entities before the law – institutions implementing the higher education programme and users and students – the public and transparency of calls for state concessions and the equal opportunities of institutions in financing and implementing higher education, the promotion of the quality of higher education institutions as the care of each individual institution and the common concern that evaluation is also promoted and safeguarded against the pitfalls of commercialisation. The financing of higher education is expected to be rationalised, which also implies the competitiveness of higher education programme providers, the transparency of calls for proposals, funding, polycentrism, dualism, programme deficits, taking into account the special needs of staff in Slovenia and individual regions. Consistency of respect for the principles of the European Higher Education Area, the Bologna Process, international law, academic law and domestic laws regarding the autonomy of higher education institutions and academic freedom of university teachers. I could also list and, of course, read a lot of this, but because some other colleagues are going to discuss it, it would be only to my colleague Miran, who spoke about the fact that in America, of course, there are so many possibilities in one way of importing higher education teachers, and that this is an easy way of getting staff, and why we would not do so in Slovenia, America is a country that has millions of people, Slovenia is limited to the resources it has. [[…]] Unfortunately, those best of our experts have also gone to America, but this cannot, of course, be an example for our perspective, our program and our national example. Of course, we have one way to build on our national fundamental knowledge, and I think that we have resources and those who are talented – through, of course, implementation, which is far more important than the act itself – will probably have an opportunity and, given the modern trends in Slovenia, will also remain here at our universities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Only so that there will be no misunderstanding, Comrade Miran, mentioned by Mrs Silva Črnugelj, is Miran Györek, who represented the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor. He won't discuss it. After him, Mr. Milenko Ziherl. Get ready for Mirko Brulc. Mr. Ziherl, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u100	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice greetings to the Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I myself would focus on the need for a resolution in higher education, because the situation in Slovenia is calling for it, and unfortunately this is not because in the resolution, colleagues have already listed before me a whole bunch of shortcomings, threats that threaten. I would start by launching Europe once a Lisbon strategy to become the most competitive economy. Of course, this strategy has remained somewhere in the middle of the road and is no longer discussed today. In Slovenia, in the Slovenian economy, there is also a major problem in the fact that processing transactions with low added value and so-called hi-tech products, especially in exports, are becoming more and more. This then forces Slovenia and Slovenia into a special survival model, so at least a garden, help on farms, work on black, grey economy and so on. So the Slovenian has to make two strokes to survive once. The best example of this painting is, say, forestry. We sell the logs for 80 euros and get back 200 euros from Austria. This is all done on a super-modern sawmill with four employees. I assume that the leaves on this saw are just from our company Mebor, which works somewhere high in the bishoply hills and has bad connections with the world, so they can only dream about broadband, which, of course, falls under the same ministry. And in this situation, studying forestry is a waste of time because there will be no employment. So the situation is more complex and the question is what happened before, an egg or a chicken in such a picture. If the employment opportunities of graduates are extremely low in some areas, this leads to a brain drain. Of course, the Slovenian economy is not strong enough to import experts, such as the economy of the United States of America and rapidly developing economies. We don't have any interest in coming. At the same time, of course, we have also locked ten doors for foreign investment, with which foreign knowledge, foreign philosophy of conduct in companies, and that is why we have also identified certain knowledge degradations in colleges, since a diploma with a simple survey can be obtained; not a ten-party survey, which would then give 50 pages of material for a diploma, a tripartite survey is enough. [[...]] There are plagiarisms that no one reacts to. We mention them here, and no one gets more than a little laugh. Of course, the investigation takes place a hundred times and loses. Those whose plagiarisms are obvious go to high jobs. I'd go back to the research environment. I don't think it's so attractive for strangers to come to us except in this exchange of students. Ours would rather go out and there's another danger of brain drain. The opening of the market with Austria will be a whole profile of higher and highly educated people, especially young people, because the younger ones decide once you have a family, you will probably not move with the belly behind the bread. [[…]] But a whole bunch of professions in the field of social, health and health are now opening up in Austria, and it's a big danger. We are already covering, say, medical workers from Slovakia and from the countries of the former Yugoslavia. At the end of the day, I'd like to say that the brain drain isn't new. Sometimes, for example, the graduate trip of the Faculty of Science and Technology, the chemistry department of Bayer — where they already knew why they were wearing them up and down — ended up half of them just there because they got good jobs. And that's not even so bad if we know how to draw them back after ten or more years. So, the necessary resolution, and unfortunately with some mistakes, will not receive my support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Mirko Brulc has the floor to prepare Mrs Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u102	Nicely greeted. However, this resolution will have my support. Of course, I am under the impression of the previous item on the agenda. The team changed, though. Why the impression? Because of the desire to limit the costs of public spending, “it is necessary to reduce the costs associated with children’s kindergartens, schools and so on”, we will also reach universities and more. And we know what it's like to watch, even many mayors in this country, that circles are more valuable than intelligence, technology park and more, and to be in charge of some infrastructure that is not necessary today, it's no problem that we owe ourselves to the direction that we will have more knowledge that is urgently needed today by reading in the newspaper, how one company opened yesterday, recycling, green, whatever, help me So something new, new knowledge in the world, something new, but it takes wisdom to do that. [[…]] [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] That's it, green polyamide. Thank you. It's just like intermezzo, because today we've been talking about a lot of things all day, even about jokes that then those who he's telling can't say they'd laugh. But I am glad that today so many future graduates danced and sang Gaudeamus, and of course I also wish them a successful graduation and then that we allow them to study further. This is today's theme, very important, because we know that knowledge is a virtue that no one can take from you, and that without knowledge there is no progress. We can say that we will have to get out of this economic crisis; people, dear, without offending anyone — by crushing clay and making bricks or shoveling and so forth, will not be able to survive these 2 million people. And when we talk so much about how good everything was before the previous government — yes, the business in Mura was still alive. Today we can't work for a rice chip, not in a factory, not in a field, not anywhere. Therefore, without knowledge, without such resolutions, and I hope that this resolution will lead us to have legislation in this area that will be modern and appropriate for development, and it seems obvious that the new government 50 plus 1 if this government comes to pass, we will start again. [[…]] In an environment where I am in Nova Gorica, I have wondered – because you know that we have one quasi private university, which is not entirely private, that we have some colleges and it is similar to that we have invested in it, at least in my two mandates, every year, a million and a half euros and so on, and that there was some fear that this resolution would prevent the development and dispersion of certain content in Slovenia, but under conditions that are clearly written, it is said first that the environment needs such knowledge that the guarantee of quality is without duplication of certain content that are already dispersed, I will not talk now about programmes that are in almost every village and are too many and then remain unemployed when they graduate – that such development options for this resolution are also enabled and have also been confirmed by many of those who were on the public tribunals and on the committee, where there were quite some eminent representatives of universities and so on and have agreed with this resolution. The amendments that have been tabled have indeed improved this issue, and I think that there is a suitable basis for a law to come out of this, which will result in a law that will give this society more knowledge, more quality jobs later and more added value and thus a way out of the crisis. I will, of course, support this resolution, as I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor to prepare Dr. Pavel Gantar. Here you go, Mrs. Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u104	Thank you very much for the words, honourable Prime Minister, distinguished Minister, Members and Members! We therefore have before us a resolution on the National Higher Education Programme. It is certainly an extremely important document, as it provides guidance for the development of higher education all the way up to 2020. So, through this document, the key actions that will show the direction in which the development of higher education will take place over the next 10 years are being outlined. However, I would like to draw on the public opinion that has taken place before this text has also been discussed by the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development. Why do I want to go back? In particular, because of today's coalition MPs, and perhaps also the Minister, you forget that this document has experienced a very intense opposition at the public hearing. Not only some, but in fact there was no expert in higher education who would agree with this proposed resolution. In short, we had quite a problem of how to establish a document that was supported by at least a few experts working in this area. Practically all the debates on this public consultation were extremely sharp and directed at Minister Golobič to perhaps experience some kind of revelation and draw up such a resolution, which, of course, will also be agreed by the professional public. But no, the distinguished Minister Golobič sent a resolution to the National Assembly, which nobody supported, of course until recently, when experts and representatives of universities found overnight that the resolution was still a good one, even more so that the resolution was a perfect document. And here, Mr. Secretary, I must actually congratulate you for doing an extraordinary, fantastic job. You have succeeded in something that I think has not yet worked for any of the ministers, not even those who are leaving. But to change this opinion of all experts by as much as 100 percent, you had to promise these universities something, as they say. So we're talking about funding. But obviously, at this point, when you promised to do this, you were also doing accounts without the innkeeper, because Minister Križanič at the Ministry of Finance knows nothing about these things. And what does that tell us? This tells us that, of course, the easiest thing to do is to promise something just before leaving the ministerial office, so to speak, “this minister was really good” and he is shivering over his shoulders, and then, of course, let this burden and that responsibility be assumed by others. As far as I have the information, the Deans of the Faculty do not agree with this proposed resolution, but they must remain silent. Solutions within the resolution also disagree with the negotiating group of public sector trade unions; we received yesterday, MEPs and Members, also a letter to our addresses, which has already been presented here – even though in the first place the Coalition Group of Social Democrats smiles well when I speak, but these are facts. And they're absolutely holding. Against the resolution are also students, professors and researchers gathered in motion We are the university. Even today they have sent a letter asking Members to gather so much courage to reject this resolution. And just for the end, dear Minister: previously mentioned by a colleague of Silva Črnugelj's book Dzrna Slovenija, what a good project this is. This book publishes both the resolutions we are considering today, namely the resolution of the National Higher Education Programme 2011-2020 and the research and innovation strategy of Slovenia 2011-2020. But you know what's interesting? That we spent no money on this book. He's in a state like the state he's in right now. Why did we spend money without a relationship? Because we have published a document that does not contain all the 180 amendments that we have discussed on the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technological Development. So we have an incomplete document, which we spent a lot of money on. And therefore, the Minister-designate here wonders whether, after the resolution has been adopted or both resolutions have been adopted — which together are about 400 — or will you then issue a new Brave Slovenia, is it called Brave Slovenia 2, or how? I don't know, because this is just going to be an incomplete document, this is going to stay, this book is going to stay, so I really want to know how you imagined it. Because I agree with this book of yours, that it's good to read it and that it came out, but it would be better if we waited for the perfect document to be accepted and then published. Otherwise, I can say it's just a cheap pier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The word has been prepared by Dr. Pavel Gantar, Brada Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I propose to the Minister if he can still issue the next book entitled Prezrzna Slovenije, and I think he can add something else besides these amendments. But anyway. If we are talking about a resolution, I would say, above all, that I welcome it, I will support it, and I hope that this resolution will also be followed by certain implementation measures based on laws or other documents that will also translate the basic guidelines set out in this resolution into reality. More than necessary, this resolution, even if it did not call for a resolution, should it be called otherwise, is inevitable. In 2002, 2003, we read in the introduction, there were 12 higher education institutions and two universities in Slovenia. In 2010, there were 50 independent higher education institutions and 5 universities, in eight years. In eight years! Colleagues and colleagues, do you believe that knowledge, quality and expertise have increased so much that we can come and that at the same quality level we can have and maintain such an increase? Of course, don't think that's what happened. What happened at that time, and what we had or had a certain contact with the university and education, was clearly observed, was the embezzlement of the university and higher education. And it had to be done, because in this flood, this decline of this average, they could call it quality, they destroyed themselves, they came to a dry end, they didn't drown, even those peaks became endangered, which existed before, and some of them still exist today. That was why this radical step, this act, had to be done. And the fact is that most young people are studying today, and the fact is that we have to carry out, not only the normative principle of binaryity that has been discussed, and the principle that studies are differentiated in a way that allows, we could say that university studies remain what they once were and must become again, and that other forms of higher education that are educated for specific, today are characteristic of the needs created by post-industrial society with predominant information and other technologies that penetrate or have already penetrated into traditional professions. Above all, the Bologna reform needs to be consolidated. I myself have had this opportunity to participate in it, that I have also written programmes for some specific orientation for it, and at this point the Bologna reform is still, to some extent, a banalisation of the study, not a diversification of the study, which could be achieved and should also be achieved. I think that this can be done mainly by really trying to simplify the first stage and precisely define, including by reducing the number of these study orientations at the second stage. In my opinion, the share of gross social product in higher education should also be raised, which should be shown primarily in improving technical laboratory equipment and all other matters and in increasing the number, especially of assistants and others who are urgently needed by the Bologna method of study – without this bologna method there is no study. At the same time, I believe that indirect and direct efforts should be made in view of the possibilities for promoting, in particular, natural and technical education. I don't think it's sociable - because I'm a sociologist myself - that it's something that's second-rate. On the contrary, it is extremely important, but I believe that we must at least indirectly and directly try to influence that the proportion of those enrolled in natural and technical studies will increase. We have here, in previous debates and even today, dealing with the idea and the greatest possible vision of this resolution, which is simply that this resolution places quite serious and sharp limits on the establishment of universities, especially higher education institutions. We have repeatedly, not only today, but already heard ideas about so-called national universities and regional universities. Gentlemen, there are no regional universities! It can be a university in a small place, but the very word "universitas" means it measures at global, at universal, and universities that do not seek to become the best or among the best are not. It can be located in Lower Duplex, and Oxford is not the largest English city. This is not important; it is important that it cannot be regional, but that it must be universal and global and global, especially today. Globally, they were universal during the Middle Ages, which, of course, we know, was no dark time – then universities were global, universal more than probably today the Ljubljana University or any Slovenian university. And from this point of view, this idea is in itself dangerous, painful and unthinking and harmful. It is not about how big a place the university is; it is about whether the university there is global and universal and whether it measures quality, excellence, and whether it aims to become the best. Anyone who trains athletics is trying to become the best, otherwise they wouldn't train. Why would he train? The university cannot be without this goal that it is among the best, if not the best, etc. And that's the basic goal. That is why this idea of regional – "Let's have two, three national universities, and small and regional universities covering regional markets, regional knowledge" – is not valid. [[...]] Of course, this is true of higher education institutions, if there is some tradition of work, education, professions, it is good that you have higher education and all these things. That's all right and all right. But here, too, we must strive for the greatest possible extent, for the supraregional, etc., so this is an idea and I would ask that we bury it, and that we should not embarrass ourselves with it. Every year there will also be fewer students in view of the demographic trends that appear. I think it is extremely important, perhaps even under-emphasized in the resolution, that this global aspect of the need for Slovenian universities to retain the number of students and also the quality of teachers, researchers, in order to attract foreign students. I have to say that lately I have also met people who have asked me, here at the National Assembly, visiting, how is the university, how is the enrollment, etc. I think we need to do what we can in the next round of the Aliens Act or elsewhere to allow people who want to study to come to this country and not to impose restrictions on them, and so on. and many such people can then stay with us and enrich our knowledge, our behavior and so on. That is why I think it is very important that we understand that the university must aim at what we have said and not even be satisfied or go into being "regional". The university and the economy, the topic that relates to this and the next topic is, of course, that many researchers have been clear in the last 20 years – this is an untransparent type of study – to explore the locality logic of high-tech companies. [[...]] The local logic of the classical industry, the steel industry, the processing industry is already well known. This classical industry is located with supplies of raw materials, roads, rivers, ports, stocks in larger cities, numbers of people and so on. This location factor, of course, is very rigid. The local logic of the high technology industry is: the main factor of the location is not only access to coal, not only access to water, not accessibility to a large number of people, but proximity to universities – Stanford, Barclay – and the same is on the East Coast and the same is true in the two most important regional, in a global sense, centres, these are Munich and also Milan, that I am not talking about others now. And this is what I think is the greatest opportunity for this connection to the economy. Of course, universities should be allowed and encouraged to work together with industry, the movement of personnel, and that is already, I would say, healthy banality. What needs to be, I would specifically point out that there is and still applies an old rule: it is no more useful than a good theory. If we go to look at some important achievements that shape our day - to - day life, such as the invention of the Internet, you will see that most of the inventions have been created as an unwitting result of research, in which they tried to develop or explore or obtain something else. that the results of the scientific research are unpredictable and that several times some research that was fundamentally unsuccessful will prove successful in its unintended consequences because it produces some products that were originally unable to produce; the typical problem was the detection and development of the laser beam, without which today, as you know, none of the devices could have been spoken here either. It is therefore necessary to promote this freedom in this respect and also the integrity of all of this. I would now say, and I think the resolution answers these questions quite well. University – pay system. True, many times it has been said that if you go to university and ask the professor who my colleague is, whether he is a public servant, he will remember that he is, and if you tell him whether he is an official, he will, of course, turn it down with disgust, and say that I don't know why, but he will, most of them will. [[…]] And it is true that Poseidi's negotiating group calls for the resolution to be rejected because it destroys the single pay system. Dear colleagues and colleagues! That's an additional reason to accept it. I have never believed, I do not believe, and I will not believe in the single pay system in the public sector and even in the public administration. Never. And this was a discussion that I had already led in 2000-2004 with the Secretary of State, who later became the minister he introduced. I will never believe, as a sociologist, that it is possible to have a variety of professions in the lower line, on the lower edge of the profession, say, a trained manipulator, what I know, in a hospital, for example, that it can be classified in the same scale linearly, by degrees, if he is at point 1, and that an academic is at point, I don't know, 65, President of the Republic or I don't know what, 67, etc. You can't do that. It's an illusion. The variety of professions, the rules of liability cannot be distributed on this linear scale and it is not possible to make such a linear scale and, by the way, we also have payment systems as we have them. I think that development will gradually go into differentiation of payment systems in individual categories to go in a direction, probably keeping the night system in public administration, in the state administration, that it will go likely that the hospital system will go in a different direction, university, etc., and that this is the only way. And that it's impossible, in fact, if it doesn't happen at the university in one way or another, it's clear that we won't be able to pay a talented researcher, I wouldn't have any chance of staying here because he's not stupid. Because it can't be paid in a public system where it's on a scale, I don't know, 36, or 39, it can't be paid, over, let's go. This system is harmful. I think this system is dangerous to change just like that. It will need to be changed slowly – it is the fates of people, it is their security, it is their agreement – and it will be consensual if only an agreement can be made on how to remove individual categories. So it stays on the minister who's coming, on the MP who's coming, and on the other hand, he's watching it. So, on the contrary, if we insist on this system at the university, we will bury it. I think it is right to give the main word here to the university itself and to the people and to try to lead this discussion, to have some discussion in full and similar. If we didn't go, I'd say, past them, but that needs to be changed, and I'll tell you, a hundred percent. Today, when this is happening, Friday — what is wrong with it? It's business day, ladies and gentlemen, if you don't know. Because they said they didn't want to have a debate on Friday, and I remind you that Friday is as good as any other day. Another issue that bothered me in these discussions is the personification of the resolution with Gregor Golobic. Gregor Golobič is the man who, of course, led the preparation of this resolution. But I think there's at least the sentences he wrote in here, if there's any. That he was directing him to coordinate, to put all things up as minister, of course, that's for sure. He did not write this resolution, he did not write it, it is the collective knowledge behind this resolution, officially and not officially. And you are assessing this knowledge and the fundamental definitions that this Minister Golobič has given here and not the other one, so the personalisation of this resolution with Golobič is completely useless. Many ministers will come and go, good or bad works, resolutions and actions, will remain real and will not remain and will be judged by them. Condemning the resolution only because it was brought from you by the infamous Golobič is completely unrealistic. The fact that she's had a severe seizure I've been in this public divisive. [[…]] She experienced some very sharp lobbying attacks, as some are affected by this direction, and that is what needs to be known. So. Those of whom you quoted were affected. God help you, you might say, but it is not possible to reconcile all the passions and interests in this story so that everyone is satisfied and the goat dies. If everyone were satisfied, this high school goat would surely die. Some will be dissatisfied, and that's what this is all about. And you have to stay with it. Otherwise, critical manners are even a way of debate in the academic circle. Academies can't be discussed unless they have something critical to say, and that's the only right thing to do. I think that this resolution by discussing it – and otherwise critical in academic circles actually makes no sense even to discuss – has been given to it by someone, they could call it a tribute, and they could call it a dignitary. It's no coincidence she brought some soberness into this room. We hope that this resolution will not only remain at the time of adoption, and I hope that it will not just be coincidental, but also those implementing mechanisms that allow for the best things to be realized in here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u107	Thank you. Mrs. Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Although the density of this hall's settlement is as small as it is, today there have been so many unusual claims and so many strange combinations of thinking said that if you wanted to get a little deeper as a psychoanalyst, let's say – fortunately, I'm not, because they say that all those who are psychologists have problems with themselves, so I'm not going to do that either. However, I will say a few things; among other things, for example, that those who most faithfully repeat that they are not for each village to be a university, “but in my village they must be”, they are characteristic representatives of the Slovenian people. One well-known reporter would write that they're Slovenian. And I must say that the conclusion of this resolution that we have – at least this is how I understand if you look at the whole – that we actually have too many higher education programmes and that there are as many universities as we have, full hats, according to our own words. And that's why it would actually make no sense to open new universities. Yes – and here I agree with our President – that it is useful to have colleges and higher education organisations scattered, but it is probably also good that knowledge is dispersed in this way throughout Slovenian space. Because the people who teach at these universities and the young people who end up in these colleges or higher schools and the people who graduate from these higher schools and colleges, of course, often stay in the environment in which they studied. Let's see, I did it once, and now it's going to be 18 years old, and I'm sure that this is true at the time was a discussion about whether Ljubljana as the city's capital should be dedicated to a special law and, of course, the debate was very hot. [[...]] And I said let's do a statistical survey of how many permanent residents in Ljubljana actually originate from Ljubljana. I am confident today that the majority of Ljubljana's and Ljubljana's are not native, and not even the second generation of Ljubljana's, but have come here to study and are here because there are the most available jobs in Ljubljana. At the same time, I saw something else; when we opened new colleges and higher vocational schools with us, suddenly the number of young people with diplomas who stayed with us got married, created families and worked with us. So we have imported, I can say, knowledge from other regions into our own. When I was driving hitchhikers from Ljubljana down and back, very often these hitchhikers were the ones who were driving to colleges in Koper, Isolo and Piran. And then they went back home to Styria, Dolenjska, Gorenjska, or wherever. And many among them said that this was a very pleasant environment, and many of them wanted to stay with us. This means that the dispersion of higher education institutions, not universities, but colleges and higher schools, is a condition that we also achieve interference, let us say after the domestic genetic pool in Slovenia. I do not think it is good that we are too firmly located, which also indicates that we are looking at data on the situation analysis in the resolution, that we have an extremely small proportion of students, Slovenians and Slovenes, who are going to study abroad, that we have an extremely small percentage of foreign students with us, 0.9% barely, and that we also have a very small percentage of higher education teachers from abroad, and most of them are lecturers. So at least we could be some kind of technical science doctor. I must say that I like this resolution because it very clearly sums up the ideas that we have also heard in the previous term in the Higher Education Committee, when we were in the presence of students, representatives of the student organisation, and in particular from their mouths, listening to the emphasis that has now been found here in this resolution, that we really need to ensure the autonomy of university studies, that universities and higher education institutions need to be linked to public research institutions at all, and that they need to be linked to the economy. Here I would join my colleague Brulci, who says yes, and here is even this case when he talks about bio, as we said, now I have forgotten how to say green polyamide, so is plastic, which is made of 100% recycled plastic, that is to say it can really be ideal. But what is the point of this story of Yulon? The point of this story of Julon is, for the first time, that research work was done in our country, that it was applied to us, but the most important thing is that the owner of this company is a foreigner. It is said that all the moments that we list over and over – that the national interest in this and the national interest in that – when it comes to the capital owner who is aware of his social responsibility, then it does not matter where it comes from. This is a condition for a real owner, a company, a factory or anything else. And this social responsibility is also one of the key things in the resolution on the development of higher education or the national higher education programme. And I hope that the fact that there are few of us here today does not mean that this is something bad, we are not Muslims to be at home on Friday, that is true, but at the same time there is something else: that those of us who are left are likely to be actively involved in launching, bringing this resolution into reality, so that higher education will have a document before it, on the basis of which it will be possible from point to point, from goals to actors, to responsibility, to the responsibilities that are stated in it, who must do something, it is not so insignificant, that they can autonomously then apply their development. I am sure that resolutions are not working in one mandate and in one person, but that they are made for several mandates, because if we look at the years in there, they are talking about even years after 2019, it is said that these are periods – because education in general and higher education is even more an area where one year means nothing – higher education is an area where development is planned, designed and directed for 10, 20 and more years. Because people who work in higher education, people who work in higher education in connection with research, should be fundamental or applied, but those people are working for the future, not for this moment, for today, for tomorrow, for yesterday. Finally, I would like to comment on several repeated quotations from the two letters that we have all received, these groups called We are the University and Mr Posei, who are represented as the representative of the labour union in the field of higher education. So, it's a union that's extremely massive and therefore I think it really has all the qualities that are necessary for a representative union. I would advise those who so sublimely cite, read and quote Mr Posei's statements to ask, however, how many members have a union run by Mr Poseidi. Otherwise, he's very loud and very sharp, but I think his background shows that he doesn't represent the interests of those people who are supposed to be advertised. I'd say that's another way. Although I am not a member of the Higher Education Committee, I have heard who they were, which outside guests were present and I am surprised that in the group We are the University of Higher Education Teachers and Students, but at the same time the position of the student organisation was clearly expressed on this committee, which in my opinion in all the disputes we had with them, but represents the student population as a whole, not only 35 members of the union. And that's why I would suggest here that when you talk about how everyone opposes and how no one supports something, that you do wonder what the statements were and look at maybe some magnetograms, who said something, on behalf of who, but not again, as it is said, “nowhere in the world is this” and then you go look at neighbouring Austria and you see that it is exactly as it is about some imaginary thing happening in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr. Zorn has the floor. Get ready for Rose, Urh, or Kek, Tank.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u110	Thank you very much. I've got two minutes. That's why the media does. A little bit about deceiving first. However, this resolution has been adopted in an unusual way, and this unusual way, Mr Minister, has remained. The fact that all the formal criteria were covered and the resolution was adopted by acclamation on the Higher Education Committee, however, is personally rejected by all those who sat there, suggests a particular problem. And this problem is that, of course, at the time of the public debate, there were still a lot of disagreements and, after this was adopted on the committee, you succeeded in, as you would call it, persuading what is good in the resolution of this kind, which brings to all universities and universities. It is called lobbying, and I see nothing wrong in it; for this is the work of the minister, and you were convincing, excellent; but at the same time you are the guardian of it. You are the guardian of the fact that, so to speak, many of the Rectors who have publicly defended this are at the same time personally professionally opposed, you are the custodian of this happening and that the resolution will stand. Otherwise, there will be no more resolution with you leaving, and I must say, you're leaving. And – I'm sorry, I'm out of time. There are two areas of disagreement in the resolution that will remain and are under-explanatory, and this is the transition from the public to the private sector, and, of course, another link to the economy, that is to say, the direction towards pure and usable science that has long been at the forefront, and which is not sufficiently explained in the resolution, but will erupt with all force when it will be [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u111	Thank you. Mr. Secretary has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u112	Thank you so much for saying that. At this point, however, I have decided to say something at this point before the final attempt to recapitulate this debate and say something about it. Now, in some ways, the expression of some, which is a revelation to me, I have to admit, congratulations on your part for a successful job, so to speak, "posthumous," someone might have thought. But man, if he lives long enough, he'll probably see that too. Look, there hasn't been any lobbying in the meantime. I think that if you look closely at what, for example, he said in a public presentation of opinions here, in this Chamber, behind this stage, the Rector of Prof. Dr. Danilo Zvortanik, who runs the rector conference in this mandate – their mandate – and at the same time is the chairman of the private university, the University of Novi Gorica, there will be no misunderstanding. And if you compare that to what he said a week later at the meeting of his mother’s working body, you will not notice a dramatic difference. There was no Rector of the University of Ljubljana at the public service. There was no one, by the way, no one, no professor from the University of Maribor in public representation. The Committee, the parental committee has devoted a lot of attention to the University of Maribor in this mandate, rather than to other universities, unfortunately not to the black, dark side which has been revealed in connection with this university in recent weeks. But interestingly enough, no one noticed that there was no one from the University of Maribor at the public presentation of opinions, not an old rector who was not coming, not a single professor. So when you talk about some dramatic representation of that composition, of course it's misleading. And Dr Zvortanik, as I mentioned earlier, who spoke in a rector conference, unlike the majority who have legitimately expressed their private opinions, I am legitimately stressing that this is the subject of a public presentation of opinions. By the way, don't forget – it was proposed by coalition MPs, not by the opposition. So that, after all the many public debates, on various occasions throughout Slovenia, with all the public, with all the stakeholders, with all the stakeholders that were taking place, that it was still at the end, after the document had received the seal of the formal proposal, that is, when it was accepted by the Government, it was forwarded to the National Assembly, so that it could be said again. The difference in the performance of Prof. Zvortanik on public transportation – and you can ask him calmly in this interpretation – and what was said at the meeting of his mother's working body is precisely the difference that the president of the National Assembly, Dr. Pavel Gantar, spoke about earlier. In fact, when we talk about academics who are not used to giving commendations, they come up when they have something critical to say, in fact, there's some kind of curtosis for them that they don't like to follow. And when Professor Zvortanik found that his, no doubt positive words spoken in these documents, in this hall at a public presentation, understood diametrically, he said this in his native working body in a non-academic jargon, which he then understood, as he had also said, and do not interpret it as a change of opinion or the consequence of any lobbying – nothing happened in that week, nothing. There's no money to talk about, except maybe, but maybe it was a revelation that I really offered them something. Maybe your resignation. Maybe that's what convinced someone that [[Incomprehensible]] . Unfortunately, I will say, this has cheered you up more than, to say the least, we have gotten rid of it, the thorn in our heel has been so long, and let us support the document, because there are so many and so many relevant groups, it has been said about this document, about its solutions, on various occasions, in a way that is sufficiently clear, I can tell you what these institutions are, because, of course, this has not been said. It begins with the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts, the Engineering Academy of Slovenia, the Rector's Conference, mentioned earlier, then with KORIS, the association of all research institutes in practice, public and other private in Slovenia, especially the Institute of “Joseph Stefan”, or explicitly supported here the document by the director of the second largest institute, the Chemical Institute. The student organisation has, I must say, been the most cooperative in this debate since the beginning. I have to say out loud here – this is not good news for the Slovenian academic sphere, for the whole of it – no one reads documents and knows the problem as accurately as internationally as the student organisation representatives do. This is something that is self-satisfying, and on the other hand it also suggests a thought about the capacity of the sphere to think only of itself. But the key institutions are, I didn't mention earlier the Chamber of Commerce, etc., anyone else. [[…]] In short, mentioned earlier, this publication was problematic. One of the hundreds of publications in such or even greater scope that ministries, offices, government services, including the National Assembly, produce regularly. Why at that very moment, and will this be followed by another? For me, this was important at the moment, not for me, for this debate, because after the resolutions have been adopted, they are published in the Official Journal, known to all. This was the stage when, as you can see, in the last 24 hours, the alleged important actors have come forward in this regard. After a comprehensive public debate, we have become government documents, published them, and it does not say on the front page that they are resolutions, it says: proposals. It is clear to everyone that once the proposal is adopted in the National Assembly, there is no longer a proposal, but the resolution on the National Programme for the Development of Higher Education 2011-2020 is written down. So that the documents published have provided certain messages to representatives of important institutions inside and, in particular, a set of relevant statistics, comparisons which are in addition, have contributed to the fact that, both at the public presentation and in these weeks, up to today's treatment, many have been able to see the whole in an additional, comprehensive way. Even here today, a multitude of debates have touched both documents, this cannot be avoided, this is not an obvious one, and in the introduction I have in some way referred to both because they are in fact closely connected, but why is this not one document? This was discussed, for example, in a debate in the State Council – because the law requires the preparation of two documents. And why now, at the end of the term or whatever it was called? Simply because the moment of drafting such a document does not stem from the will of a minister, but comes from the moment the previous resolution expires. The Resolution on the National Higher Education Programme of the Republic of Slovenia 2006-2010 expired last year. She was a five - year - old in her manner — a government that had to overlook — famous five - year - olds. We have brought these five-year-olds into history, and we have said, but in this area it is still necessary to look a little further and to address, from a greater perspective, issues that require more thorough treatment, which is not linked to the mandate of a government and must not be, but only to a poor person, a minister or a coalition. This resolution, both together, covers not only the period from the adoption to the end, whenever possible, of the mandate of this Government, but at least two more mandates of the two future governments. In this respect, we have tried for a year to hold a very open, broad debate, to gain as wide a consensus as possible. In order to be able to get full consent, this is an illusion that no one has taken on this company, but we wanted to achieve the highest possible degree of acceptance and agreement between key actors, institutions, stakeholders, as they say, the professional public and so on, and we have achieved this. Reference to some who have expressed their opposition in the public presentation – because either the document, and this was the most common, they have not read at all, or they have presented theirs here, I will say private pain with some experience that has nothing to do with this argument – but the situation as it is today, or this is all very legitimate, but we cannot put this aside to the aforementioned institutions, which represent what Slovenia, not this government or this ministry or this minister, God forbid, in this higher education sense represents or refers to. [[...]] This is what we have in this Slovenia, and this will have to be taken into account by future governments. If they do not, the story of the previous mandate, as well as the fate of the rejection experienced by the Secretary-General in an attempt to intervene in the higher education sphere without any dialogue from above, will recur, and this is the achievement of this resolution, which cannot be disputed. There was a lot of talk about, of course, the number of universities. This resolution strengthens the criteria for establishing universities. That's right. We also did not apply for new concessions for new higher education programmes in this mandate. Why not? Not just because there's no money or there's less money. In this area, we have increased it despite the crisis. But because we have a very unfair, unintentionally distributed concessions across the country in Slovenia. Unlike the information with which Mr Zicherl previously operated, for example, we produce, train substantially more personnel from the medical staff, where an enormous number of concessions have been awarded, than Slovenia will ever need, and we fill the capacities of neighbouring countries with them. This is the situation we inherited. We need an imaginary higher education network, which does not mean 10 universities in the next ten years. Which means a diversified offer, which means different types of higher education institutions with different focussing, not hierarchical value, in order to enable such large generations, such an extensive proportion of the generation as it includes – more than 50% has been listed before – each of them can also acquire knowledge, competences, skills that will later be needed in life on a clearly inexhaustible labour market, and not on account of the fact that the entire higher education sphere should in fact lower the criteria, it is hard to ‘prove’, as previously said, as others say or become uncompetitive. In fact, I mentioned at the outset: the idea that the number of higher education institutions and universities leads to quality, that such competition is relevant, that it has any positive effects in the higher education sphere, is completely meaningless. This can be illustrated by many examples. I can also serve you with a few of these, and I will mention to you, we have, before that, a demographic reality. There is too little talk about it in the context of pension reform and the situation where we should employ 150 000 people over the next ten years who we do not have in order for the current pension system to be sustainable – but that there will be no indication that I am campaigning for a pension referendum [[…]] Look, Albania has 16 universities. A few separate colleges along the way. Serbia 19. Macedonia 23. Kosovo was 13. In 2009, they made order, they only have three left. Denmark had 25 of them — a trend in the world in the opposite direction — and I am now talking about the Western world — and it has 8 more. Not anymore. We will probably not compare ourselves with China, Taiwan, the United States or Great Britain or France by number of universities. I think we need to talk here about the realities to which we can compare ourselves with the ambitions that we can have. We want to increase what Ambassador Pecanov said earlier that more foreign students will study with us and more of our students abroad. Now we're here on Europe's tail. One and the other. We want to increase this by 20% because now it's a percentage or two. These are realities, these are real numbers, we're dealing today with a generation of 19-year-olds, which includes about 24 thousand souls, in a few years, this trend is going in the direction of 18,000. No more than that. Some of them will come from abroad to study here, most of them from the famous South East Balkans, over which some are still so fond of howling their noses, we hope that as much as possible from elsewhere, but this is the reality and this will have to be adapted to our higher education network. Another big topic and this, the talk was about limiting to three universities. [[...]] That's not true. You won't find this in this document. Furthermore, Slovenia, we assess during the period covered by this resolution 2020, does not have the resources, financial, human resources, spatial resources to finance and in any other way to provide conditions for the quality of university work in more than three public universities. The public, it is stressed, writes alongside the public. There are no obstacles to being created in addition to the private university in Nova Gorica, or maybe EMUNI, which is the fifth registered university in Slovenia, is also a Catholic university, which has been discussed – now is no longer mentioned – or any other than a private university. However, this country, which is under the Constitution, under a special Article of the Constitution, is obliged to provide funding to state universities, a dictatorship in the Constitution, cannot count on it to act so irresponsiblely towards public funds and, above all, to young people entering higher education as it has been in the past. I hold it responsible that a lot of programmes, institutions and licenses have been very irresponsible for various hunters to manipulate diplomas in the Republic of Slovenia. The issue of the consensual option, as it says, of options in agreement with trade unions, of exit from the single pay system of the public We are talking about the uniformity of the pay system, not the system of public servants. [[...]] It says here a single salary system. There's not much to add to what Dr. Gantar used to say. The idea that the university professor and someone who is at the bottom of this pyramid can be arranged in a single pyramid and in the same logic within them, but this professor is only in the middle or in the beginning of the upper half, like someone who is completely from another world and qualifications and competences and everything and works in a completely different environment, this idea is not sustainable in the 21st century. It can be that Dr. Virant put great effort into this, he can think that this is a great achievement for this sphere is already a medium-term destructive path forward. [[...]] This does not mean that university professors, researchers will no longer be public servants, but they may not, if there is a smart agreement included in this pyramid, be inserted as one stone into this pyramid of a single salary system, which is rigid and impossible to get good Slovenian professors and scientists from abroad to Slovenia or, thank God, as soon as possible foreigners, quality researchers, professors as guests or otherwise. I have here with me – perhaps later, if I have to, what more can I say about Or I quote you the view of one of the young Slovenian scientists who is employed abroad at the university and was invited in a group of young people of this kind by Minister Žekš to say something about this resolution, describe their view of the state of things in Slovenia. [[…]] Believe me, the ratings are very critical and gave me a lot of thought, and to all who have come to know this, it is also available online, because, by the way, here is where Aljaž Ule also taught in the course of Tuesday morning's meetings Znažje znaže, where, in view of the previous harassment of a small meeting in this Chamber, he practically never sees the president of the mother working body for science. [[…]] [[…]] However, there is Mr Milenko Zicherl, Mrs Pečanova, Mrs Potrata, mostly, and Mr Zorn comes sometimes and there is no President. But it's okay. It's important Friday afternoon. I wasn't thrilled either, I have to admit, [[Incomprehensible]] However, perhaps the deeper idea of the President of Parliament on this and the College, which is the capacity of a particular kind, is that a resolution which is not intended and which is actually a crime to abuse for a day-to-day discussion will receive some more relaxed – in terms of the daily political wrestling – debates on Friday afternoon, obviously the account was not fully in the imagination. I have already tried to explain why this resolution is now, why this timescale is, why it is not my resolution. I only signed myself, so by duty, on a document at various stages and at the end, when it went also to the Government, one and the other is true, of course participated actively in its design, trying to think the various interests expressed here and which are inevitable in this sphere and cannot be brought to the common denominator of the 100% consensus; the closest thing I said in presenting opinions here is the status quo, which is precisely because most people agree that it is so best, but this status quo we know, we know just about it, is far from what they could be satisfied with. Some of these statements have been cited here, including in recent days. I looked at them, in their blurry inaccuracies. But it is typical that, through these various statements, precisely these diametrically opposite interests speak. Mr Grill quoted one statement from the circle, for example, Prof. Rastko Močnik – it is no coincidence that he did not read who is actually a signatory, but not Rastko Močnik – and is, for example, diametrically opposite, exclusive to what his fellow Member Mr. Milenko Ziherl and earlier Mr. Radovan Žerjav spoke about the importance of the innovation component, the connection of the university and the economy. This is what the first statement warned, and why they want, as they say here, in a public presentation of opinions, this document – Mr Grims, you will remember, it was said, I had unfortunately to go then, they told me that it was necessary to dig a pit, put these documents in, burn them, salt them and dries them. These are the people who put themselves on this document that Mr. Grill quoted today. And, of course, for them, the greatest horror is to hear what he was talking about here, for example, Mr Žerjav or Mr Milenko Ziherl, but someone else. These are different interests and it is political if this is actually in the same way as if it is operating with my resignation, that this is because anyone who is against it comes along well will be served here without realizing that in fact the content is completely in such a context irrelevant, as was the case with the amendment of the law on research activities. In the previous term, the founder was given an absolute majority in the boards of directors, but when we changed that, the same people suggested that the founder no longer has a representative in the boards of directors. In this way, it is not possible to write resolutions for ten years which, by the way, are not written as the last truth, but are a great deal of attention about this, that I will not actually exhaust this time here for this area, but also with the second resolution, which is in turn, what more said, about the implementation aspect, which is completely independent of the Minister's person, and in this sense I will not have any problem and in any way deny that I will continue to believe that this resolution is a quality document, not because it was created at a time when I was Minister, but because it was created in a way that took into account the facts that only someone who does not know what reality is today in Slovenia and how difficult the future will be. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u113	Thank you. Mrs. Potter has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u114	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Mr Minister, it has been so suggested that after your performance, however, I must also give my opinion, because I was given the opportunity to speak on behalf of the Group of Members before. First of all, I would like to say a few things about the creation of the document and all of what some believe, particularly those who call for the rejection of the document, I have to say my position because it is very different from their experience. [[…]] The document has been produced for over a year. However, opinions that do not support the resolution do not in many cases take into account that the document has been amended from the first version to the one we discussed on the Committee. And I'm used to discussing what's our job. So there's a lot of stuff that's been bothering anyone that's already got a response in the document. It's very dangerous when someone uses total pronouns all or no one, because they don't. I was at a public presentation from the beginning to the end, and with a very short period of time when I was gone, but my conclusion is that after the initial Rafal critical thoughts on the resolution, and in the meantime also some radical views, there were also opinions expressed in favour of the resolution. After a public presentation, which, in my opinion, ran in some very unusual way, the chairman of the committee tried to drag her out on another day, which would be unusual for the first time, but a relatively long period in which they could send opinions was set. On May 3rd – and on May 5th – the Committee's meeting was practically impeccable according to the Rules of Procedure, because if they wanted to prepare amendments to the resolution, this was already delayed. So much for correctness. It is understandable, however, that the Chairman of the Committee did not even hide his intention at the meeting of the Committee in order to withdraw the resolution from consideration. That did not seem necessary to me, and some of these strange points were also given, and I have heard 400 amendments today. I went through the magnetogram to read, counted, how many times we voted – you know we voted on the amendments and amendments to the amendments and so on. We voted 136 times. My professional associates have counted to me that there were amendments tabled by the coalition, 78. Then there were other amendments that were proposed as amendments to the committee. However, some individuals have tabled amendments as amendments to the Committee, and the student organisation has also brought a bunch of amendments that none of the Members have adopted. So, we tend to exaggerate to confirm the thesis that doesn't have a real basis. Now, let's get to that. With someone whom Mr Grims would also know if he went to the Knowledge of Harvest, I talked to him for two and a half hours before the time for the amendments to be tabled in Maribor. He had a written text, a number of comments on the resolution, but when I asked him, “does that mean you are opposed to the resolutions?” he said, “you don’t mean anything and don’t do anything about it. Both documents are urgently needed. I have comments, but since the resolution will also raise the legal texts and it will also be given because it is not possible to write it down...« – because I see the advantage of this resolution precisely in that a whole series of things are now more open-ended, so to speak, or softly, so that they are allowed to read as an option that will be realized or not, by 2020, but will eventually be realized. So I had the opportunity to meet those who favored the document and those who were not in favor of the document. However, I must admit that I know the way of thinking about the academic sphere and that I know that the intellectual doubts are the virtues that the educated do not allow themselves to be taken away and that when they read the text, they speak with the text and also make their criticisms. So much for what you can read and what you can't read. I am particularly fond of the resolution itself with two points of view, and I like that the students feel the same way because Petra Kurinčič said at the committee meeting that students tended mainly to two points of accessibility and quality of the study. She also said that a number of their proposals had been taken into account. And the students also predicted that they would closely monitor the legislation and see how their comments would be taken into account. But now to that. Look, if we're talking about the quality of higher education, I'm glad that this quality requirement comes mainly from the student species, because I remember how much trouble the National Quality Agency was born with, how we went through the promises that were made and couldn't happen in the previous term. Remember what the rectors wanted to achieve, how accreditations had to be monitored or accepted, and many more things could be said at the expense of the past. And when we talk about quality, I think about this resolution, I should point out that I see the emphasis on three public universities as an important decision because quality in higher education circles is growing slowly. I was working alone at the academy in Maribor at the beginning, in 1985 she became a university when I was leaving her, most people still talked about her as an academy. For 15 years, nothing has changed in people's minds. When graduates came from this university and volunteered for their jobs, you will not believe – as in northeastern Slovenia, we are very attached to our regional environment – when the principals decided who they would hire, they preferred to accept a university graduate with tradition, a university with tradition, than those who gave the graduates a new one. Until they realized that graduates from the faculty of education had significantly more pedagogical skills that made it easier for them to enter the teaching profession and are good on this side. These are things, quality needs to be built, quality needs to be bet, and therefore I think this requirement, which builds on excellence in the resolution, is very important. And I expect, as I said in my opinion, that by the end of 2020, or perhaps later, there will be a growing awareness that it might be good to have a research university, which, given the concentration of excellent researchers at the Institute of Joseph Stefan, could already be seen. We are used to discussing the complete universities of the classical type – I experience this again and again at the thought of the University of Maribor, which the University of Maribor does not have so that it could be a perfect university in that classical sense. But look what's happening to us, and I think it's also worth thinking about. The Maribor Medical Faculty, which was established to remedy the deficit in medical graduates – go now and see where the first graduates of the medical faculty are going, you may have read this in one of the public media. They are not staying in Maribor and Slovenia, but are leaving and are not using it, they will take advantage of this opportunity of free movement of knowledge and movement of people and will seek employment where employment opportunities are better according to their judgement. And here, it seems to me that a great deal of thought will be needed, a thorough thought. If we have Slovenian higher education, if we have Slovenian public universities, in which we invest, how will we ensure that the brain escape will not impoverish this space, but at the same time we will not have a flood of brains from other countries that would enrich this mental world and higher education space with our behaviour. Don't get me wrong, I'm not against mobility and against exchange, this is necessary, because sometimes someone only knows what opportunities we have for studying when they're going abroad. I was recently at an international orchid exhibition in the botanical garden and the dean of the Faculty of Biotechnical Technology said: in the international exchange of students from Slovakia and Bavaria they could not believe what standard our students have regarding laboratory equipment and everything else, that I am not talking about the bivan standard and any other things that we are very critical of. For me, therefore, this is a question of how we will deal with this capital, which we are investing in, that we will also absorb from this capital the quality of life of citizens and citizens of Slovenia and also those who live here are not our citizens. Well, that's what I'd like to say related to quality and excellence. I'm afraid that some, I'm not afraid, I'm sure that some of the actions and some of the decisions in the past have been more extensive in principle, if I'm now jokingly saying, more of the logic of supermarkets than of university space, but by this logic that they've gone more widely, they've thought less about the need to ensure the excellence that I've been talking about for a while now, we need excellence to build identity and confidence. Knowledge of reaping helps me to build national confidence that I am glad that this programme was launched in this mandate. But the second question is accessibility. It is precisely because of accessibility that I am more inclined to the public model of study and that the network does not stretch too far, because it seems to me that students from other parts of Slovenia must also have the opportunity to come into those programmes that are of the highest quality, because only in their environment, in which I expect them to return, will this environment be able to become rich. I am concerned that those students who come from a less stimulating environment will be forced to study in programmes that will later be shown to be able to get a diploma with them in that study, but do not have any employment opportunities with those programmes or perhaps even these programmes are not competitive with any similar programmes in another environment. Therefore, accessibility can be ensured through a well-thought-out system of scholarships, through thoughtful scholarships of other incentives, and therefore it seems to me that it will also be necessary to closely monitor these things through the budgetary resources and through other documents available to us, which Parliament will have the opportunity to address and impose in any other way that we will all be richer from them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u115	Thank you. Mr. Secretary has the floor. Would you like some more? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u116	I owe a few more answers, though Members who were actually addressed to me, even very explicitly, this moment is not in, but, as the Prime Minister would say: for the record, on the record. Before that, maybe when I was done there, I would have concluded that assembly with one thought, and I think it's very weighed and worth taking into account. I don't know how many of you have seen Dr. Frant Adam in the last Saturday annex. It writes about strategies, about problems with resolutions, about their non-resistance and debates, and also something is said about these resolutions, otherwise it seems to me that there is a certain amount of tax on this point to some resistance, but, however, I am, no matter what, generally taken, when he says Talking about the implementation deficit, which is often used So the resolution is adopted, ink, metaphorically, is not dried up and it is ad acta and then we wait 5 or 10 years to find that nothing has happened. [[…]] [[…]] These resolutions are, but they are written very different about this below. He says, "what beats this country is that it always tries to start again, and in this sense we are dealing with cognitive and democratic deficits." In one part, I think today's debates have made this very clear, and this is what we can all be worried about. I hope, however, that the future will bring the capacity to reflect on long-term issues without short-term calculations. The question remains as to what will happen if it is achieved, whether this will have very harmful consequences if one is determined by a national programme that speaks of limiting the number of habilitating areas. Today we are dealing with more than 400 habilitating areas in Slovenia. The resolution refers to a limitation on the ISCED 2 second level of ISCED qualification, i.e. 85 habilitating areas. Why is this important, and why can this not have bad consequences? You know that in Slovenia we tend to separate everything from very small kindergartens, so that as many people as possible are in charge in that kindergarten, it's very simple to say. This has happened to us in the habilitation areas, and this is unsustainable – also a comparative, internationally unsustainable situation. So this is not a limitation, this is a ventilation, this is the competition that is being talked about, allowing competition, and, of course, it is an important step towards being able to talk about quality in the context of habilitation. Mr Žerjav pointed out a major problem, a number of problems. Some also touch, perhaps more explicitly, on the following resolutions, and there will be more talk about this, but also on the problem of the funding system, which has been so far such that it has worked, simply put, by logic – more students, more money. It really was until this year. We have amended the regulation on the financing of higher education. The financing of higher education, by the way, contrary to the aforementioned Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. for 20 years in practice, has been in dispute with the government regulation, not with the law, because the Constitution is going to go to law. The Regulation is governed by the logic of the principal. So more students are enrolled, more students finish their studies, while, of course, certain parameters that affect quality and entrance and exit can be adapted to this money hunt, as I say, which, of course, is unendurable and extremely harmful for higher education. So far, the regulations have been based on this key. We changed the regulation this year. This aspect is marginalised. It is irrelevant, because of course it cannot be disregarded, even how many students there are, but it cannot be the guiding criteria. We have ensured greater stability in the financing of higher education institutions, which have also experienced some development over this decade, provided appropriate transitional regimes for universities and higher education institutions, which are in growth with a shorter tradition, which have not yet developed the entire portfolio, if I may say so, of higher education programmes, which have fully equalled public and private concessional higher education institutions at this point. And this year, this new funding model is being tested, tested, corrected, and, at the end of this year, it is expected to be adopted in the National Assembly, finally after 20 years in accordance with the constitutional standard, the law on financing higher education. I think this will work not only because we have prepared and brought it to a point where possible, but also because in a recent decision in mid-April, the Constitutional Court called and imposed a deadline of six or nine months in which it is necessary to do so. In this way, this moment, which is disturbing and rightly pointed out, will actually lose this charge, which has so far caused damage. Mr Urh asked a question, a number of questions of importance. He asked: “Will it be a determination that a student, a student who fails to complete a second degree Bologna study within a reasonable period of time, will this universally determine whether this situation will be established from case to case?” In this regard, I would say that this is, of course, a universal rule, but includes an assessment of the specific circumstances in which such an obligation could not be taken into account, the health or any other reasons of force majeure, whatever else, which would judge the relevant institutions as being worthy of consideration so that someone would not be unjustly – even now there was some talk about it – falls into this mechanism. where this mechanism explicitly speaks of the fact that this return of tuition in such a situation is realized only and exclusively on condition that and if such a person has sufficient income, but not that, in fact, someone who is at some stage of the first Bologna study has remained, for example, unable to obtain a job so that they can then, I don't know what, incur personal property or in any other way sanction it. So this mechanism is not meant as a sanction, but as an incentive that we need if we are also to address a small rash problem. Mr Urh also pointed out that there were several points to be made to the issue of the use of the Slovenian language. In this regard, I would say that it is an important question that we have given him considerable attention to the fact that the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts has played a major role in the debate, especially its President, Dr. Trontel, that we have formed together under the leadership of the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts with the Rector's Conference and with representatives of the Ministry, Dr. Sorčan participates in the work of this commission, a special group that prepares concrete solutions; the dictions that are already written in the NPVS are already the fruit of this reflection, also in line with the Ministry of Culture, which you know that he has a specific duty to take care of this aspect, and that we have defined the dictatorship to ensure that conditions cannot happen in which the Slovenian language loses the dimension of scientific language, professional, expert language and all that is important that we can talk about completeness and the vitality of language. Mr Grill pointed out that we are limiting doctoral studies to three years; this is not strictly true at those 400 amendments. It is now explicitly limited to three years and the NPVS allows it to be extended to four years. In addition, there were a number of indications before and even today that a doctoral study should be conducted only at universities after the new one. That's not true. That's not what the document says. The document explicitly foresees that it can also be implemented in the context of consortia of research institutions which have adequate capacities, both in terms of research equipment, spaces, especially scientific references, capacity and, by the way, yesterday, perhaps in the spirit or not of this document that we are considering here today, a letter was signed between the four largest research institutes in Slovenia – perhaps a substitute for what Mrs. Potata spoke about, a research university once –: the Institute of Joseph Stefan, who has his international postgraduate school, with his academic Blinc on the forehead, the Chemical Institute, the National Institute for Biology and the Scientific Research Centre of the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts. [[…]] This happened yesterday and has a basis or will have a basis for further steps also in what this document is talking about, including all other higher education institutions operating in Slovenia and may be conducting doctoral studies today or wanting to carry out doctoral studies Because the will is not sufficient, the condition for this is an accredited program in a quality agency or earlier in the world for higher education, and the condition is that you have the appropriate verification by the research agency, that you have a research group, that you have people who are actually qualified as researchers to carry out doctoral studies, are mentors and so on. [[…]] This is not a matter of will, a political decision, “in this place this school will also have a doctoral study”. Doctor's study is too serious. And we want to return weight with all the dictions in this document. Anyone who wants to see what the current global debate on doctoral studies is – because many of the things that we are talking about here are being debated globally – is therefore following events in Britain months ago and can also be debated in the coming months, as the matter is still open, knows that these things that are happening in the higher education sphere are extremely social and give them more attention than we do, but we may also be more aware of the importance of this sphere in advance. In the last issue of the most respected scientific journal Nature is even a chapter devoted to the issues of doctoral study and I can assure you, and there you can also check that the thinking of the most competent people in the world who think about it is precisely in this direction that we are talking about here. They talk about interdisciplinaryness, about increasing, pooling capacities, exactly what we are putting here and what we see as an important focus if we want the PhDs at Slovenian higher education institutions to have the weight to manifest the excellence that Mrs. Potrata spoke about before and without which the Doctors of Science will continue to lose their jobs as is happening today. And it's not only their fault, but it always takes two sides for an equation. To end this, only these key points from Dr. Ulet's previous contribution, which he listed are some of the factors that are a key obstacle, that in Slovenia researchers do not achieve as high results as they would be able to – with rare exceptions which, despite all of this, are not as rare as we have seen here at many occasions in the presentation, here in the National Assembly, the Knowledge of Harvest – and for which we cannot hope either before we change things that will come from abroad back to Slovenia, the best, the most visible, the most competent. And I hope to say that this document is largely – and people who have responded in this sense know how to attach it in many ways – answers or addresses the problems that have been faced here. Under the first point, he says that in Slovenia, employees in universities are mainly referred to as educators, that they are not actually paid or rewarded for their research work, and that the whole part of the job must be covered by teaching hours, which, of course, is consistent, that they do not have the right time for research work, and that those who cannot get enough hours are trying to replace the loss of these revenues with research work, instead of being present in the research work because of the quality of the research work itself. Then he says there's a big problem in this document, and we're addressing him to get a doctorate in Slovenia in the same department where they've been doctored, that's what's called inbriding. We also have problems here because of size, because of the limited number of institutions and so on. But competition To believe that it is possible to create competition in the right words within Slovenia is an illusion. [[…]] We have a European common higher education space, which is the point of NAKVIS, which is the point of accreditation, which is the point of internationalisation, of Bologna reform, of all things. And competition cruel to the Slovenian higher education system exists. It is represented by universities and higher education institutions in Europe and the whole world. And our best, many of them, not all of them, but many of them are increasingly looking out there and looking out for them, actively. Because today there is an effort, encouraged by different mechanisms of state – some from the point of view of the country of Slovenia are listed in this document – to attract smart people into their environment. And even if they come back, if they leave, they leave something, the visions stay. This inbreeding, this internal reproduction causes that there is no real transition and academic communication between universities, that there is no real cooperation between universities, and thus there is also a closed space to come from outside people back or from other colleges, even of course such situations are lacking, those elementary criticisms that are necessary, and self-criticism. The third point says that in Slovenia the departments of the university are not rewarded for successful research work and that, of course, individuals are not rewarded for it, are not motivated, colleges are not motivated to engage those who are most successful in research. There is also a talk at this point on the issue of a single pay system. For probably one of the most successful universities, a researcher should be allowed some award for special achievements that perhaps someone in another profession in the public sector or in the state administration can't even get close because he's out, I'll say the horizon. But the system of famous pyramids, as it was established, does not answer that question because it is from a different time. And of course, the next point that connects with this – financing, promotion of employees in Slovenia is rigid. Research performance does not mean a higher salary or position, it is impossible for a successful researcher in Slovenia to offer conditions, even if they are not better than they are abroad, at least not as bad as they are abroad to come back. And, perhaps very important and up to date for a broader debate, I am referring to evaluations that, for example, I am not just giving myself, but also Mr Žerjav often, about the second sphere. Here he speaks of this sphere: «The academic culture in Slovenia seems to me conflicted, hierarchical, unprofessional, under-motivated. All I'm listening to is who's being driven, who's being teased, who's making it impossible. There is no equality between superiors and superiors. Some employees work for another employer or part-time employees. They try to use research resources for personal use, they are not in themselves motivated by research work.” He says that, abroad, "be a skregan" is not known in the academic sphere, except when it comes to the dispute over big things, about principles, about research achievements, about things that are of a material nature, and that cooperation is actually a generator of progress, which, of course, is not possible if one tries to disable the other. It's one thought of one man who I think has set a very precise mirror. He attached to these starting points where we went to this document, for which we did not give in to any lobby that had come forward at that time and wanted to preserve the privilege that he had come to over the decades and was understood to be self-evident and without it the world was falling apart. Some of this was heard here in public opinion. This starting point was endorsed by the Higher Education Council, endorsed by the Science and Technology Council, and on the basis of this resolution, which is trying with some realistic ambition, some mechanisms that provide for a counter-assessment of implementation, correction, updating, ensuring that we will be able to speak with more optimism in 2020 and with more reasonable optimism, not only about the higher education sphere, but also about the future of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u117	Thank you. We have concluded a general debate on the motion for a resolution. We are moving on to a discussion on the chapters and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 5. 2011. I am putting to the debate the second chapter and the 10 amendments of the SDS Group to this chapter. Anyone want to discuss all 10 amendments? I see you don't. Then I conclude the debate. We have therefore concluded the debate on the amendments to be decided on Tuesday, 24 May 2011, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 25. The agenda item is the draft resolution on the research and innovation strategy of Slovenia 2011-2020. The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the motion for a resolution. Mr Gregor Golobič, Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u118	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! I won't be long. I think that, when we discuss the national programme for the development of higher education, which is complementary, is complemented by the creation of it at the same time, with a hand in hand, as it were, both within the Ministry and in the context of public debates, we have received the same and simultaneous treatment. [[…]] I think a lot of things have already been said, but there are specifics, so it is only right that we put certain things out. It has already been mentioned in the previous resolution that we are dealing in this area with long-term issues and systems that do not tolerate revolutionary installations. You know that this country was in a very insurmountable situation two years ago, and it has not yet come out in a way that would have given rise to general satisfaction. The reasons, of course, were external, the reasons were internal, I will not speak to those short-term or those that were actually generated due to some short-term unthinkable actions of a policy, but I will talk about deeper reasons. And these reasons are that, over the last 20 years, we have paid very little attention to the issues of innovation, creativity, the issues of integration of the research sphere and, I will say, society as a whole, not just the economy. That we have maintained a system as a fortress for ourselves, that on the other hand we have allowed the ambitions of the economy, when we speak of it, as well as of other important social institutions, to develop and realize beyond and parallel to this world, which we can call the world of knowledge institutions. Perhaps the most obvious indicator of such a situation – and of course it is the world’s greatest view – is the amount of resources that a country spends on research and development through the budget. Over the course of twenty years, our country has practically dealt with stagnation, with the level of resources comparable to those prior to independence. And this amount of resources was slightly less than 0.6% of gross domestic product at the beginning of our mandate. In the last two years, in fact, we have managed, with the consent of the Government and with the support of the National Assembly, to significantly increase expenditure on this area through a number of counter-crisis measures at each time, from 0.6 to 0.9% at this time. The 1% target, which has also been recorded in some documents on the basis of which the Government is operating in 2012, can be achievable if the budget for next year is to be able to count on those European funds that the Government still needs to set by amending operational programmes. However, we have exceeded the European average when we are talking about the investments we are investing together, both in the public and in the private sectors, even though the private sector has fallen at this time. In this context, we have also tried to make this increase, as previously rightly warned by the Commissioner of Germany, effective loading, through a number of measures – centres of excellence, competent centres, development centres of the Slovenian economy. So they're not meant to meet needs in general. They're focused. We wanted to combine the potentials, we wanted to – and I will say something later – answer the question of wood, for example, the professions, which Mr Milenko Zicherl had previously talked about – to combine the potentials of the research sphere, the economies, so that these effects could be as much as possible. However, these are measures, they are ad hoc counter-crisis measures. What we need is perseverance, sustainability, a system, and this is a resolution, a research, innovation resolution that you have before you today. How to make such efforts systematically and permanently, or in future crises, we will experience fate [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] Like we did in this one, and that left no one unharmed. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u119	Thank you. The motion for a resolution was addressed by the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Mag. Branku Grims. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution on Slovenia's research and innovation strategy for the next decade has been considered by the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development on the same day as the first of today's resolutions, which is also logical, since they are both in fact very closely linked. A number of debaters, both in the public presentation of opinions and in the meantime, have also raised the question why not just one resolution is being adopted. Well, that decision is also possible, so we've both dealt with it. In this regard, the Committee also had a magnetogram of the public presentation of opinions, as it referred to both resolutions. Here I must say that the debaters were less critical than the first resolution, and more support was expressed. At the session itself, as at the first, the situation was the same. With regard to the amendments adopted, seven amendments were adopted by the motioners, namely the Government, and the type of amendments proposed for the meeting of the Committee, four of which were proposed by the SDS proposer. The Committee thus approved the proposed resolution at the second stage of its consideration and proposes its adoption to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u121	Thank you. With regard to this motion for a resolution, the group of 27 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. This is why the views of the groups are presented. Mr Ljubo Germič has the floor to present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Say good-bye to everyone again! The 2008 global crisis in Slovenia almost destroyed progress in economic and social development in the past decade. The crisis has revealed a number of structural shortcomings, in particular that the growth of the social gross product in us is too dependent on the low-tech industry and traditional services that limit the competitiveness of the economy. In acute situations, the State must focus rapidly on achieving a high degree of cohesion of the company and increasing the competitiveness of the economy, while consolidating and restructuring public finances. In doing so, we must build on the creativity and knowledge that must be the fundamental values and wealth of Slovenia in the future. Our knowledge and creativity are the only guarantee to maintain and raise living standards in Slovenia, and we have been able to monitor such declarations for years. I hope and, of course, that such declaratory guidelines, which are also able to follow through the resolution on the Republic of Slovenia's research and innovation strategy, will also become concrete provisions in the implementing documents, as all the weaknesses of our economic development and missed opportunities have been unleashed by the economic crisis, and if we want to realize these declarations, of course, concrete actions must follow. The creation of a knowledge society will require further development of all scientific areas, as only responding to current societal challenges from different perspectives allows for a comprehensive view and an appropriate action. This is particularly noteworthy, for we have been able to witness in the last decade that there has been quite a discrepancy here. Above all, we note that natural and technical sciences have in fact not been balanced with other scientific areas. In addition, it is crucial to promote a partnership between science and its users, enabling the development of new technologies closely linked to scientific knowledge. In the LDS, we believe that this kind of step can only be made possible by achieving scientific excellence, both by researchers from public research organisations and from the economy. And here, in particular, we warn that we are extremely weak. We need to promote a greater number of scientific publications, together with foreign researchers and, of course, particularly the participation of public research organisations and economies, with a view to joint patenting, innovation and improvement. The research and innovation strategy should promote the transfer of knowledge between the public research sector and the economy, as it is only through basic research that guarantees successful applied research that will be mature for the transfer to the economy, which will enable us to break through high-tech societies. Openness and increased international cooperation are crucial if we want this strategy to have positive effects on our economy. Improving the public funding system for research activities is crucial. Slovenia's target in the strategy is 3% of the social gross product invested in research and development by 2020, of which 1% is from public funds. The scientific and technological ambitions of the Council are even higher as it foresees a total amount of 3,6 % of the social gross product. These allocations of financial resources will finally enable us to increase the number of developers, not only in higher education institutions and public research organisations, but also in an economy that is currently unsatisfactoryly low in Slovenia. The development of research infrastructure and its efficient use is crucial for the future. We pay particular attention here to efficient use. This development infrastructure, however, must not be intended solely for researchers from the public sector; it must be open to cooperation with the economy and the international space. This alone, in our view, ensures the useful use of the resources we intend to invest in this area. The proposed research and innovation strategy of Slovenia is based on the strategy for the development of Slovenia and is in line with Europe 2020 and the European Union's flagship initiatives in order to achieve synergies. It makes sense to refer to the national development programme of higher education, which connects itself to the so-called knowledge triangle, which is at the heart of the strategic consideration of the further development of Slovenian and global society. Its preparation also took into account studies by the international group of experts under the auspices of the OECD and the group under the European Union Open Method of Coordination, which in autumn 2010 examined the Slovenian research and innovation environment and public policies in these areas and made recommendations for their optimisation on the basis of these studies. At the LDS, we expect that the strategy will increase the reputation and attractiveness of the profession of researchers and researchers, including through favourable infrastructure and normative circumstances, which will enable the effective and efficient implementation of the most demanding research. Human beings must be at the heart of the system, as only by developing human resources will we be able to achieve a higher level of development. Research institutions will have strategic, financial and managerial autonomy while at the same time increasing their responsibility to carry out their socially important missions. The country must place final research and innovation at the heart of development policies and adequately support them. This resolution already provides for 1% of the social gross product of public funds in 2012 to invest in R & D and 1.5% of the social product by 2020. If these trends are achieved, of course, we expect Slovenia to be able to achieve a development breakthrough. In economic development, however, higher development must be demonstrated in the higher technological composition of the economy in the country and higher added value to the employee due to technological as well as non-technological innovation. This will only increase the competitiveness of the economy, while the tax and support environment will stimulate new and higher investment by companies in development and in new, especially better jobs. At the LDS, we support greater autonomy of research and development institutions in the employment and management of human resources, since, with a successful agreement between participants, the researchers of the individual institution will be able to step out of the pay system. However, we expect or demand that the management of research institutes and employees jointly propose how to regulate the salary system and the rights and duties of employees in this case, with one possibility of a collective contract between public and research institutions as employers and trade unions as employees. In doing so, the current regulation of rights and responsibilities may be the starting point for the new system. In Slovenia knowledge transfer is not regulated in an integrated manner. Most activities are based on ad hoc actions by different actors. Most of them are in some public research institutions and higher education institutions, while state institutions are largely underactive. At the LDS Club, we expect the strategy ahead of us to be a framework that will allow for such an organisation of research and development activities in Slovenia, which will optimize all the resources we have available. In this direction, we also understand the proposal for a strategy ahead of us and will support it. At the same time, we must draw attention to the harsh reality that such strategies in Slovenia have so far not achieved the objectives set. This is precisely why, with the support of this strategy, we stress the responsibility of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology to be able, on the basis of the documents adopted today, to draw up such a normative framework that will actually encourage the participation of the economy and the public sector in the development and research segment, a framework that will stimulate international cooperation, a framework that will make all the positive intentions, the strategies that we are talking about today also work in practice. Without this, this document will be just one in a series of those who offer the right strategic direction of the research and development sector in Slovenia, which unfortunately will never live or live only in part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members should be presented by Andrej Magajna. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mirko Brulc. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Are we still on the clock, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u125	Until I declare that we're not.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u126	Now, seriously. In the Group of Social Democrats, we support the motion for a resolution on the research and innovation strategy. We are convinced that, unlike some other documents in the past, there is a reinforced political and, above all, budgetary will to implement it. Manko was the last to be seen, in particular between 2006 and 2008, when the gap between the declaration and the actual maximum. Public investment in R & D reached only half of 1% of GDP in 2008, leading to the suspension and sub-nutrition of the scientific, innovative and research sphere. But already in 2009, under the new government, during the recession, the biggest increase in public funding for research and development has followed in the last 20 years. The volume has increased by a quarter of GDP, so the target Barcelona percentage is available in the coming year. Optimism can also be built on other accounts of this government in the field of research and development. Over the past two years, almost €600 million has been allocated to promote entrepreneurship and competitiveness. Over 3,000 five hundred different company projects were supported. The call for technological development projects distributed €21 million between 191 small and medium-sized enterprises. However, 45 million euro has been awarded to the competent centres. And I hear reading every day, as well as here in Parliament, that this government has done nothing to develop the economy, entrepreneurship and innovation. These funds show that this is not the case. The proposed resolution on the research and innovation strategy does not constitute a radical substantive breakthrough with a precursor. The need to increase knowledge from science and technical knowledge, the convergence or integration of research institutes, the more flexible functioning of public research institutions and the closer integration with the economy are just some of the points of reference that preserve the ideal connection between the two documents. This is, last but not least, proof that in Slovenia we have not taken advantage of the normative and institutional opportunities for economic growth and competitiveness, which are the result of a deliberate investment in research and development. More. In the previous mandate, the government, by amending the sectoral law of the principle, is a fundamental substrate for growth from the scientific research sphere, that is autonomy. With a change in the composition of the councils, boards of directors, research institutions, it has achieved that as founders they had the majority of the members of the Council and established leverage for political influence. We have eliminated the indiscretion in this mandate. The audacity of the strategy is based on clearly expressed requirements for systemic changes in the field of labour law and status law. Researchers in public research institutions need to be able to make professional progress comparable to other professions. This must be achieved by measures that will not lead to the destabilisation of already achieved levels of rights. Building a stimulating environment will thus strengthen creativity and attract a wider range of domestic and foreign researchers and enable the real transfer of knowledge into the economy. More than any document so far, the strategy highlights other perspectives that characterise the European Research Area. The requirements are: the establishment of a first-class research infrastructure, accessible to a wider range of researchers, the exchange of knowledge between public research and industry and the opening of Slovenian research space into European space. In this way, it will be possible to tackle the fundamental shortcomings that the OECD and the UMAR are alerting us to. This is an efficiency that is hampered in particular by administrative dispersion and lack of coordination, and an excessive dependence on labour-intensive activities. The additional value of the strategy is also its operationality. The plan for the implementation of individual measures is detailed but at the same time open enough to adapt to the new challenges that will accompany the resolution over the 10-year period. Social Democrats are convinced that the resolution provides an appropriate basis for creating an enabling environment that will be open to the needs of the economy and will be integrated into international space. The government's actions so far give us real hope that the implementation of the measures will not stand still. As we say, we will support the resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u128	Your Honor! The considerations concerning the resolution on the research and innovation strategy are the same from a legal point of view as those concerning higher education and the previous point of view. It was proposed at the end of the term, at the time of the apparent collapse of the coalition – in part – and the government, at the time of the Minister's announced departure, and a question is raised as to what its purpose or range is. The speaker was just so sympathetic when he said “the decades of this resolution” but in fact it will probably be some decade of its existence in a form in which it may be definitively confirmed if the coalition accepts it. However, the issue of the regulation of this whole area of higher education and research and innovation will certainly open up. Because this is one very interconnected complex, and for this reason we also assess in the SDS that those comments are justly justified, that one or at least one resolution should be considered together. How much they are connected and interconnected in each other's parts, I will then also present in the debate. First of all, with regard to the resolution itself. According to the SDS assessment alone, only the text of the resolution is certainly better prepared than the resolution on the national higher education programme, in particular it does not contain those completely pointless – but not just the senseless – for the further development of Slovenia's strategically extremely harmful – restrictive provisions, as contained in the resolution on the national higher education programme, which we therefore reject. In the case of the resolution on the research and innovation strategy, however, we in the SDS estimate that in large part the victims will in fact be poor and political and, for Slovenia, harmful resolutions on the national higher education programme due to its restrictive provisions. Consider just one example of how these two resolutions are strongly interlinked and how complex this issue is. The resolution on the research innovation strategy provides for relatively large investments, both human resources and finance in this area, which is, of course, perfectly logical and also consistent with Slovenian national development interests. However, the question then arises where that academically educated staff will come from, if, at the same time, we insist in the resolution on a national higher education programme on non-life restrictions which are harmful to Slovenia and which are harmful to research innovation or to the whole sphere. Why is it necessary to persist in determining – the SDS has proposed an amendment, it has been over-voted – that exactly three universities are needed in Slovenia? There is no rational reason to define this in advance. If someone wants to, if they want to, or with public support, with the support of local communities, whatever the case, form a new beginning of the university to prove themselves to be formed and to be alive. If it will work properly, if it will meet all the criteria set out by the State – and the criteria must apply to all equally, whether public or private or Ljubljana or somewhere regional, whatever the case - then let this institution exist because its existence is in the interest of certainty. Speaking of a research innovation strategy, it is difficult to separate this from another university altogether, such as some other research institutes, which are usually formed either within the university or in individual colleges or in its vicinity, because each such gap somewhere within the borders of Slovenia is a substitute for development for that area. The development of individual universities and universities is very clear. You can find out about this from Ljubljana to New City, Maribor, to all other areas where they are fortunate enough to have appropriate higher education institutions to help create development in that area. This development is a combination of synergies, as each such institution, whether research or higher education, or even more, if they are connected, brings together highly educated staff, brings quality knowledge and, of course, enables the economy in that area a new opportunity, a new faster, more efficient development. This, of course, makes it possible to develop the whole of Slovenia, each part of Slovenia is an integral part of it, the development of each work is in the interest of Slovenia. For this reason, I must say that I reject the thought, in fact, even personally, I think that it is scary, which was previously expressed in the light of a previous resolution by one of the discussers, that it is necessary to reject the idea of how we need such institutions in each region or in every part of Slovenia. Let them live to prove themselves to meet, of course, the quality criteria that must be prescribed, consistently controlled and equal for all. That is only the point, not that it is mechanically limited to a number in advance or that solutions, which in my view are precisely in the resolution on the research and innovation strategy, are written in those first on higher education, are completely counterproductive. Let me quote just one case like this. It is envisaged that doctoral studies can only be carried out by universities and consortia of research institutes. Yes, because you could write names in there; if you're already writing exactly on certain groups of people, in precisely certain interests, then write that it's Ljubljana and you know exactly which two universities, and that it's a consortium led by the Institute by Joseph Stefan. Why shouldn't the devil give me one reasonable reason to tell me if they meet all the quality conditions, carry out a doctoral study also of individual institutes, even if you want the Institute itself Joseph Stefan or individual colleges, if of course they meet all the criteria that the state requires and must be prescribed and adequately controlled by it. Where is the rational reason not to allow it? He's not here. Just to satisfy and give priority to specific groups of people and precisely certain political interests. But this, ladies and gentlemen, is fundamentally contrary to the interests of the state of Slovenia. And the moment will fall into the right light when we consider the resolution on the research and innovation strategy. For what will actually cause such a restriction, such an extremely conservative approach by the current rulings, which means even a step back in view of the existing situation, you know that in the Anglo-Saxon system so-called schools also carry out doctoral studies. [[…]] In France, the French system has the École nationale, there is no problem, there is no doctoral study, and these cases could be listed elsewhere in the world. And even in Slovenia they have already performed them, successfully, there was no case that, at least I do not know, they would say that one institution is currently producing these personnel so badly that it is necessary to act. And if this were to prove true, the state already has all the appropriate grounds after the current regulation to take the appropriate action. This is said to be just a step backwards, which is highly counter-developmental, but of course it is also highly centralistic and is aimed at what I personally believe is more than an obvious interest, even when it comes to science and innovation, when this is most contrary to the national interest of the State of Slovenia, to centralise everything as centrally as possible. It is therefore prescribed that doctoral studies may be only at the university or only within the consortium of research institutes and so on. And similar nonsense that you have in the resolution on the Higher Education Programme a whole bunch more. Therefore, of course, it remains in the air, without the resources necessary for its actual implementation, a resolution on the research and innovation strategy. Of course, this one is not completely flawless. What can be seen from the background is, above all, the lack of the courage of its proponents for individual solutions in order to set more goals and, of course, then do everything possible to achieve them. However, given the harmful solutions in the first of the proposed resolutions, it is logical that expectations and objectives in the second resolution should be set at a lower level than they could be because the first resolution is an obstacle to the implementation of the second. We note from the SDS that the number of employees in high-tech macro- and micro-enterprises should also be set as a criterion for innovative companies. It's very interesting that you don't have a solution so far. And we are also warning and proposing an appropriate amendment; although it seems to be only an area of research and innovation strategy, it is only an area of science in the most important, say, academic, high sense, but that is not really the case. Innovation or innovation strategy covers a very wide spectrum, if we look at it in full, and one big problem that is not just Slovenia, which is unfortunately a European problem, is that many times good ideas do not have appropriate entrepreneurial implementation, if we say so. They simply do not have the educated entrepreneurial values or the entrepreneurial practices they would acquire in the school system in order to be able to manage either courage or knowledge, to bring individual ideas to life, but no matter what level they are, whether they are innovation at a lower level or at the highest level of science. For this reason, we also propose that one of the objectives of this strategy should also be to introduce the subject of entrepreneurship in secondary schools. Because we firmly believe that entrepreneurship needs to be promoted in an organised and systematic manner already at the level of secondary education. It is also about giving these new generations the values that are essential for success in today's competitive world, where, unfortunately, someone else will benefit from the best ideas, perhaps even somewhere else in the continent – as a rule, Americans are extremely successful because we Europeans, when it comes to entrepreneurship, have been slightly less fortunate than other competitors within the global world. At the end of this explanation, please allow some further comments. In fact, there were a number of comments earlier that actually touch on both of these resolutions, but it would have been worth warning in some way. If we are talking about science, creativity, innovation – as in the case at hand with this resolution, we want to achieve – then we need to know that it is necessary to create the right conditions for this. Not too good an argument, as previously presented by the minister, when it was said, "we are in school and these people are working abroad" and it was not at the academic level at the time, but it was essentially a secondary or higher education level. But the same could be true of many university studies. Indeed, in a given case, it is of course necessary to be realistic and to give people the right conditions, and perhaps even pay is not so high in the first place. It is about the fact that the research and innovation strategy, once again, is a much broader concept than it seems at first sight. It is necessary to create not only a change in social value, but also a concrete action of an appropriate condition, an appropriate framework for this to be accelerated. How's that working out in practice? If we look at just one case. [[…]] If we were only 3 years ago, even 2 years ago at the very top of the development of broadband links within the country of Slovenia, please go look at the Internet and you will see how much we have been overtaken by some other countries. Unfortunately, some of the countries that we have seen in the past are a lot more than above, when we are significantly more developed, more successful, more innovative. Today we have these criteria, like electronic broadband connections, if you want, Slovaks, and many other countries, so I won't list them all. While the current ministry, which covers this very area, is involved in some mutual actions; on the one hand, the Ministry threatens the municipalities, namely those in the most vulnerable, sensitive and developing regions, such as the border regions such as the northern Primorska, Koroška, Bela Krajina, with lawsuits, on the other hand, the municipalities threaten the Ministry with retrials. In short, a matter which is certainly not in the development interest. It should be noted, however, that today we are considering a research and innovation strategy – because it is obvious, in view of some statements made by honourable Members and Members from the coalition, that they do not even understand what this is about – that this is also a condition for the development of certain activities, for the implementation, if you want, of these resolutions, and of course that Slovenia as a whole is developing faster. Again, the same question we raised at the beginning. The Minister said earlier that "it is not essential then who will implement the resolution; this is broader; once the resolution has been adopted, the Minister will have virtually nothing more with its implementation". That's what was said. Of course, that doesn't hold, far from it. The first thing to do is to translate the resolution into legislation, that is to say, who is proposing the relevant laws, first the Minister, then the Government is considering them on his proposal, and, of course, there must be appropriate measures on the agenda that implement each strategy. Today we are considering the strategy proposed by the Minister, who has announced his resignation at the same time. It probably doesn't make sense to go on about the seriousness of this type of work. The Minister himself said that he advocated both resolutions today posthumously, then with some malice we could say that perhaps that sudden support in the scientific sphere or in its work was from the Pieteta. But if we go back to more serious things, we need to draw attention here to some of the shortcomings that this whole thing brings, as it is set, to. The first thing to point out is that each such solution is actually one problem. The problem is that it needs to be integrated into long-term plans in the planning of an individual institution. None of these institutions that we are talking about today are developing from yesterday to tomorrow, but it is a long-term process that is in some ways natural development. As an example: the establishment of a university's replacement, the university is living, it is well formed, it is conducting a doctoral study, it creates some critical mass, it can extend to other programs, enough of this start, when it connects several colleges, to enable the establishment of the entire university later. This is normal development, this normal development here is artificial, planned, implicitly cut by a resolution on the National Higher Education Programme, which explicitly prevents or predicts its prevention. Because it has to be said again that this is a matter of policy setting. Such a policy, which is restrictive and harmful, does not deserve any support. Besides, we've been observing her results on our own for a very long time now. However, its players will test its results at the June 5th referendums — so much for those who are now happily chatting there. This is why, how can it be that everything about these two resolutions, which touch on such an important area, is put in place on Friday afternoon, as some speakers have already pointed out. The president of the National Assembly said earlier: “It’s just as good a day as any.” Yes, because if we were to believe that, then it would only be a question of why we usually consider on Friday afternoon exactly the proposals put out by the SDS, which you then discard with your left hand. Of course, this gives no real hope for the seriousness of such proposals, such as these two resolutions. What gives even less hope of actually being useful in these two resolutions is the conduct of the entire coalition, which also looks forward to the Minister's departure at this time, which, it must be said, has certainly been able to ensure that funds for this area have increased in the budget over the past two years. For this reason, the question is what is the real objective of the government and the rulings when it comes to the development, research and innovation strategies of Slovenia. Once again in the SDS we can only warn that they must count the actions and not the words. In this case, the resolutions actually mean little. This is a confirmation of a specific policy, which we will only be able to judge once we see what will be adopted on this basis in the form of individual acts or concrete actions. For the time being, the situation in terms of the achievement of individual objectives does not give us a particularly high hope, as there is clearly a great deal of resistance, including fear, if you want, against competition in any area. At the same time, it should be reiterated that only competition in any field, including in the field of scientific research, if you want innovation, only long-term competition promotes and guarantees quality. All history proves that openness, exposure to competition is the key motivational condition needed to come up with new ideas to establish, either within science or within entrepreneurship, to realize themselves, to bring them back to life and to enable the progress of mankind as a whole. In this case, let us say that, as a special indicator, we have also proposed bilateral scientific projects, but this has not been accepted, this is already very difficult to understand, but it is the participation of Slovenia within Europe and also within the entire developed democratic world, where Slovenian science certainly deserves and has the right place. But what we want to create, and in the SDS we firmly believe about it, is that we create the conditions for attracting the best in Slovenia, and not because we are primarily the source of the best experts going abroad. Previously mentioned, “yes, there may also be such an example that one of the prominent Slovenian experts abroad”. I regret to tell you that such cases are very large and range into an extremely wide range of scientific activities, universities, research spheres or, if you would like, innovation. This is as much as you want, from heart surgery, where I know cases where people have long gone to the United States, to epidemiology, and other areas of medicine – I also personally know cases, unfortunately six months ago some have gone abroad, some are also preparing – and then, if you want, to entrepreneurship and innovative activities, where I personally see some of the most successful entrepreneurs from Slovenia moving abroad. Regardless of the fact that at least one of these predicts that the developmental part will be retained in Slovenia, it is necessary to know that each entrepreneur is following a cost reduction and, sooner or later, it will be certain that if the whole company moves abroad, the whole production will move abroad, in a given case, Italy will probably also be followed by the relocation of all others. And then we will wonder where is this strong resolution on Slovenia's research and innovation strategy. This is why we warn in the SDS: it is only individual solutions, not that a single resolution can be dealt with separately, but that this area and both resolutions must be considered as a whole. For this reason, we also point out in the motion for a resolution on Slovenia's research and innovation strategy that, in some parts, a well-designed resolution has been assessed in advance with a poorly prepared and developmentally harmful resolution to the National Higher Education Programme for the next decade. For this reason, we will also abstain from voting.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The position of the Member State's Šine Zares will be presented by Franco Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I'll try to watch you when I talk, so I don't lecture you all the time. I don't know if it's an advantage, an honor or a divine punishment to always follow the same speaker, but the fact is that, of course, it's an honor, because that was implicitly said. The fact is that we have many universities in Slovenia, or they are called human universities, where we could teach more effectively than in the National Assembly and perhaps be able to convince someone else. The resolution on Slovenia's research and innovation strategy is certainly a step in the right direction, as it is a document which, unlike previous five-year programmes, is a long-term one, as it relates to the next 10-year period 2011-2020. So it is not a matter of one minister, whether his mandate lasts another month or a few days or a few years. We will vote on this resolution in the National Assembly and once it has obtained a majority of the votes, it will be a legitimate resolution of this National Assembly, not just this government, and it is therefore quite irrelevant and relative, who will be the minister who will implement those measures that will emerge under this strategy. The resolution sets measurable goals and links them with feasible and effective measures and ensures that they are implemented in a direct manner. As a basic strategic objective, RRISS sets out to build a comprehensive innovation system with a competitive economy of high added value. The achievement of this objective must undoubtedly be an important challenge for all of us. If we have focused our activities on strengthening the development activities of Slovenian companies in recent years, it is a key task for the next years to strengthen the competitiveness of the business environment. The aim of RRISS is to create a business environment in which both domestic and foreign innovative, creative, development-oriented and socially responsible companies are and will be able to create high added value and quality jobs. Business cores for ensuring economic growth, which, of course, should be sustainable, i.e. the environment and health of people, are innovation. It is therefore important that they receive support in their conversion to competitive products or services of high added value. We need an entrepreneur and entrepreneurship that transforms innovation into a commercially interesting product in order to achieve the right value on the market. RRISS also leads to a balanced evaluation of basic and applied research. This is a very simple incentive scheme to measure a healthy and sustainable economy's success also through the contribution of individual research achievements to the economic performance of an enterprise or a country. RRISS promotes economic development activities and encourages the creation of new innovative companies. It exposes open innovation and encourages the integration of entrepreneurs into networks, as closing down individual companies does not bring effective exploitation of entrepreneurial and innovation opportunities. This is particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises. The current network of supporting institutions – such as technology parks, incubators, clusters and technology networks – needs to be modernised and, with their integrity, more transparent and better access to services in support of the introduction of new business models and the promotion of international integration. RRISS sets out a way to achieve these objectives. And if we look at it comparatively, we will actually find Slovenia a comparable environment, which already spends over 4.6% of GDP on innovation and research. Of course, applications also, all this research to create a better, better economy. As a result of the currently fragmented R & I governance system, there is a lack of coordination of policies and competences and duplication of instruments. The functioning of public support and implementing institutions is inefficient and inoperable, and RRISS is also looking for a solution in the restructuring and restructuring of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Entrepreneurship and Foreign Investment, so-called JAPTI, and the Public Agency for Technology Development of the TIA. This is the only way to eliminate duplication in the preparation and implementation of development policies and to ensure greater efficiency of action. The effectiveness and quality of operations of all supporting and implementing institutions will be evaluated on the basis of measurable indicators, ensuring transparency, expertise and ethics. The effectiveness of the implementation of individual public tasks will be verified both professionally and cost-effectively. Today we can no longer afford strategies that we would not be willing to implement, so RRISS commits the competent institutions to verify the successful implementation of the objectives set. I believe that the resolution on Slovenia's research and innovation strategy will help to formulate a policy that will guide Slovenia's society in the long term and thus ensure not only a solution to the current crisis, but also a transition to a newer, more complex development. That is why I hope and expect that today, or when we vote, we will also accept it and then start to implement it successfully. The Group of Members will, of course, support the resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented, mag. Radovan Žerjav. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. The resolution on the research and innovation strategy is a strategic document that we urgently need in our country if we are to make the most of our innovative potential and improve the competitiveness of our economy. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are aware that high added value is one of the key elements of the country's prosperity and better competitiveness. However, a high added value can only be achieved by appropriate promotion of research activities, which must not in any way be its own intention, but must be successfully integrated into the economy. Already in the public presentation of the opinions on the resolution, I have highlighted a problem which, in my opinion and also the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, seems crucial to the creation of an effective development-oriented economy. This is the ratio of the number of researchers employed in public research organisations and the number of researchers employed in the economy. With us, this ratio is about 1 to 1.3, while in the countries where we like to follow suit, this ratio is significantly different. For example, in Austria: 1 to 15 in favour of the economy, which means that 15 researchers are employed by every employee at the public institute in the economy. In Germany, however, the ratio is lower, about 1 to 4, which is still three times higher than in us. It is also clear that the value added per employee depends to the maximum extent on the number of researchers employed in the economy. In Austria, the added value is about EUR 76,000, and in Germany about 77 000, and in particular Switzerland, which has an added value of EUR 86,000 per employee, employs as many as 49 times as many researchers in the economy as in the public institutes. Unfortunately, Slovenia, with such a concentration of research focused mainly on public research organisations, can hardly compete with the most developed, since the added value to the employee is only about EUR 30,000 per employee. This concludes that it does not matter how many researchers are employed in public research organisations, the number of researchers in the economy is important, since this is the only guarantee for higher added value that can then result in higher wages, reduced unemployment and higher quality of life. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we welcome the direction of the resolution, which increases the proportion of public funds allocated to research and development in the economy and foresees at least 60% of public funds for research and development of applied projects in the economy, while now this percentage is between 30% and 40%. We are aware that investing in R & D in the economy is crucial to the economic development of the country. The country itself has an obligation to provide an environment that will encourage the company to increase its R & D expenditure. I have in mind, above all, greater tax incentives for investing in research and development, as such measures have a positive multiplier impact on the economy. It is not too much to point out that the disastrously poor classification of Slovenia on the competitiveness scales carried out by the Swiss Institute for Management Development has seriously warned that there is something to be done in the area of competitiveness. In the Slovenian People's Party Group we have long reminded of long-term administrative procedures that potential foreign investors, including those who are willing to invest in high-tech industries, are literally being rejected from Slovenia. This must not be the case, but at least not in the current situation where every investment is still necessary. We note that only accelerated investment in research and development cannot improve competitiveness, but it also requires a reduction in certain administrative procedures and changes in the field of labour law. However, it is a focus on a more innovative economy brought by the resolution, one of the most important steps towards improving competitiveness, which must certainly not be the last. We do not have any reservations in the Slovenian People's Party of the Member States that we would not support this resolution, as we are aware that with the support of innovation we can make a significant contribution to improving competitiveness and thereby maintaining relative well-being in our country. However, as has already been pointed out in the previous paragraph, the key enforcement measures that will come and come from this resolution and the pace of implementation of these measures are key. Therefore, in our view, all forces need to be focused primarily on their successful implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u133	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate on the motion for a resolution. The first to appear was Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, Gregor Golobič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u134	I really checked in. I'm not going to be very long at this point. Look, there's been a lot of talk here again about the national development programme of higher education. Some have previously run out of time in the previous resolution and have taken advantage of the opportunity here to repeat some of the statements they do not hold back. They don't hold on to higher education and they don't hold on to it. It was said that an amendment had been tabled by Mr Grims to include, for example, the number of bilateral projects among the indicators. It sounds good, it is not disputed in itself, what a considerable number of important indicators are indicated in there, but it contains some message that needs to be kept in mind. In fact, when we talk about the number – and the amendment refers to the number of bilateral projects – we are again focused on the quantity. To how many there are, not how fundamental they are, how extensive they are, how thorough they are, how connected they are to what we have, but not crushed. And this is something that Mr Grims, of course, does not want to understand and where, for example, it is easy to imagine that, for example, there are eighty universities, such as those in Romania, a sign of competition and quality. And so on in this area. I previously referred to the implementation of Mr Milenk Ziherl in the previous resolution when he spoke about the problem of Slovenian forestry, which has potential, we have raw materials, we have tradition, also knowledge, but there is mass export of raw materials and imports, I will say, products with some added value from neighbouring countries back. We often hear that and there is some truth to it. But the problem is once again in complete dispersion, fragmentation, disconnection. We are with some measures-- and, as I said before, these ad hoc measures that have been implemented in this mandate, unfortunately only in this mandate, are directed precisely in this direction of integration, of pooling capacity of potentials, and this RRISS actually gives a systemic framework for such a policy to continue. Towards the centre of excellence of PoliMat, here he presented himself in the framework of Znažnja žanja, including the Slovenian wood industry. With very advanced products – the forest economy Pivka is involved, only they have together with knowledge institutions – they have developed, I will say something called liquid wood, and so on. And other important innovations, they're also patented here, but they had to bond and coax. It is also at the last invitation of the Ministry of Economy, the development centres of the Slovenian economy, where EUR one hundred and fifty million is allocated, one of them, not again, to the integration of the Slovenian wood industry. That's the way. In short, not again the number, not to crush each one something, nothing, but to connect, integrate, combine capacities. Because, as previously said in one other case, it is not understood by Mr Grimes that it is necessary to have this thought when you talk about it in your head: we do not live in an isolated country. We do not create competition with each other, our competition is across borders in terms of universities, universities, research institutions and, of course, economic societies. In this context, this document also pays great attention to infrastructure, research infrastructure. After many years, there has also been a significant shift in this area on the basis of a public call for the involvement of all stakeholders from both the economy: a plan has been drawn up from the research sphere, a national plan for the development of investments in research infrastructure, and again through this process, democratic as far as possible, and professionally justified, we have come up with the definition of some areas where we have the capacity to achieve breakthroughs that will be counted in the European and global criteria. We can no longer afford everything in all areas. But the fact is, and this is an important aspect of the fact that these measures that we have implemented also represent the absorption of all the European funds that have been available for this purpose. We have already managed to draw on all European funds in terms of development incentives from the Ministry of the Economy and in the field of technological development and specific investment in science projects, such as centres of excellence or competent centres. The continuation of these instruments will depend on changes in the operational programmes that will have to be agreed in Slovenia in a short time, then be re-verified in Brussels and only then will these funds be available. Also for the construction of the above mentioned broadband connections. And what is important to add, the distribution of these funds When, for the financial perspective 2007-2013, what we are talking about today, the drawing within this perspective, the decree and the Slovenian government, the government of Janez Janša did this, how much funding will be allocated to which priorities, then also science, higher education, research talked not on Friday afternoon, but on Friday from midnight to twelve at night. [[…]] That was so little of a priority. That's why we pumped so little, not because we'd be so good. But that made it quick to draw on it because it was modestly administered, modestly. We've had a call for broadband recently. We had €35 million of European money available, a total of €75 million and €80 million, and the remainder was spent in the previous mandate. This was all that was left and was still available until this invitation to tender. Applications, justified, legitimate – needs are in fact – it was 130 million euros and it was the minister, the ministry, because he cannot stretch 35 million to 130. We are working to amend the operational programmes for additional resources in order to reach the best. We are not at all among the worst, but we are not where we could have been, if we were in time and this was what we thought in 2005 and 2006 by the way, just then the previous national programme, such as the five-year-old, was called the NRP, the National Research and Development Programme, and there was also one of the goals that Slovenia should, I don't know, 2010 at the time, form 8 centres of excellence. [[…]] One of the rare things we've managed to accomplish. And of course, the funds were just for that, for nothing else. So before any future government, it will be a very demanding provision. Both documents are demanding on a financial basis. The great achievement is that they survived the interresor coordination, perhaps we can be found, even because many have had their longevity before their eyes. However, the documents contain instruments; this, in particular, brings together the Science and Technology Council, the Competitiveness Council, which it has established in the previous mandate of Žiga Turk and, unfortunately, has not come to its work as Minister of Development, and we are bringing them together in a new Greme, which will have the task of keeping a close eye on the implementation of this programme and alerting all actors, will include the highest actors at the level of the executive branch, so that these words, these dictatorships, do not remain dead letters on paper. Because the necessary provision of these funds you know that we have adopted an amendment to the opposition's home working committee to increase the share of public funds for research and development from 1.2% to 2020, which was therefore a plan, a basic proposal, also agreed within the Government within the scope of the possibility, i.e. in this mandate from 0.6% to 1%, then to 1.2% further, counting that this is only a third of the total, because two thirds per rule is the contribution of the private sector, even when it strengthens. [[…]] With this help, too, we have agreed to the opposition's amendment by means of this lever, because it is obviously willing to continue to implement this resolution, because it is not worrying about 1.5%, it is not afraid of its implementation, because it does not depend on any minister, his person. If it were, it would not be a waste of effort, not even the production of such documents, but of this solemn assembly, to take time at such an hour on such a day and take time again on Tuesday evening. So we're talking about serious things seriously, and here we're talking about the most serious things.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Grimes, procedurally. What do you got? You have absolutely nothing to procedurally, and you have no reason to procedurally. You've taken your time, you don't have time. If you think you can bring me around so you can come forward with a procedural and then substantive discussion, I'll tell you right now that I won't even give you procedural. [[...]] You have no procedural reasons, no procedural reasons, and there is no possibility of procedural substantive discussion. Next [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u136	Your leadership is a disgrace to the National Assembly. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u137	It is a disgrace to attempt to deceive Parliament and the President in the way you have presented it. The word is Franco Yuri. [[No, no, ……]] Mag. Maja Potter has the floor. Franz Jursha. [[He's not here.]] Franci Kek. [[He's not here.]] Silva Montenegro wants to discuss it? No, no, no. Breda Pecan, he doesn't want Anton Urh, Aloise Posedel, Willie Trophynik, Mirko Brulc. He wants to say the word "proposer" – Government? Does he want anything else final? Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate on the motion for a resolution. We are moving on to a discussion on the chapters and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 5. 2011. I am putting forward a third chapter and two amendments to the SDS Group, who wants to discuss it? I guess not, which is why I'm concluding. We are moving on to chapter 5, and I am putting in the debate chapter 5 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate chapter 6 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We have concluded the debate on the amendments to be decided on Tuesday, 24 May 2011 in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. I hereby adjourn the 28th meeting of the National Assembly, to be resumed on Tuesday 24 May 2011 at 9 a.m. Thank you very much.
