ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 31st meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members cannot attend today: Mr Bogdan Čepič, Mr Joško Godec, Mr Matjaž Zanoškar, Mr Roberto Battelli and Mr Alexander Zorn. At the meeting, I invited the President of the Government to agenda items 1, 25 and 29, the candidate for ministers and candidates for ministers at agenda item 29, the Secretary-General of the Government, the Minister-General and the Ministers at agenda item 1, the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia at agenda 30, the Minister of the Environment and Space of Dr Rok Žarnic at agenda items 25 and 28, the Minister of Education for Sport Dr Igor Lukšić at agenda 27 and the representatives of the Government at all agenda items. I welcome all those present once again. We are moving on to the agenda of the 31st meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 12 September 2011. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the extension of the agenda of the sitting. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 113th meeting on 9 September 2011 that the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia to ensure financial stability in the euro area, EPA 2082, should be considered on an urgent basis. On the basis of the 10th paragraph of Article 21 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Group of 27 Members and Members, with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank, requested that the National Assembly decide on that decision by the College. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we are moving to consider the requirement of the 27 Members and Members Group that the National Assembly decide on the decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly to consider the amendment of the Law on Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia to ensure financial stability in the euro area, EPA 2082, following an urgent procedure. I give the floor to the representative of the proposers to request a presentation of the position. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u2	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and everyone else! The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall specify in which cases matters may be dealt with under an emergency procedure. This is when it comes to matters of security and defence of the State, to prevent the consequences or to remedy the consequences of natural disasters or the difficult consequences for the functioning of the State. Therefore, there is no oral promise of the President of the Government among the reasons for the urgent procedure, so it is written in the material and so it was reported to the College that the President of the Government has promised that we will deal with some matter in Slovenia after some rapid procedure. The government has now proposed an emergency procedure. We also note that the quotas that Slovenia has given and the commitments it has made are sufficient to address the problems that are emerging in the euro area and, in fact, there are no additional reasons to increase this quota by as much as 77%. The amount of €2 billion and €73 million covered both the principal and the cost of insurance instruments and financial transactions, while, following the urgency procedure, the proposed quota, which is expected to be €3.6 billion, does not cover these interest and costs, which means that this quota is open up. There is no reason for Slovenia to take such decisions quickly, which constitute an enormous increase in the guarantee obligations of the Republic of Slovenia. There is no reason why the Government should, by proposing such a proposal following an urgent procedure, accept this from the coalition that Members would not normally discuss this in the context of the envisaged business options for debates in the National Assembly and that these proposals should also be identified and argued. This rush in this area does not bring any good to Slovenia. Some other countries that are expected to participate in the provision of the quota also have serious concerns. Until now it was only Slovakia that did not provide funds for this mechanism. There are now concerns in Finland and also some in Germany. It was also required to assess this even by the Constitutional Court, on these powers of the Government in these proceedings. There's another reason. If you remember the adoption of the previous law, our finance minister has ensured that Slovenia, in the light of the way it has done so, will earn something in these guarantees to Greece. Now, not a year after that, there is news that most of the funds from the guarantee quotas given to the European countries of Greece will have to be written off. In his announcement, the Minister of Finance made a complete mistake. And now this same finance minister or his government proposes that we take something back quickly, something that is even worse secured, which brings even higher costs to this country. I suggest that, by rejecting this proposal or the decision of the College, we at least allow the National Assembly to adopt this law on a regular basis, following normal consideration. If you want this to be accepted earlier, you have the opportunity to speed up with the Institute of Extraordinary Meetings. However, do not prevent the debate by Members of the National Assembly, and also by all other participating groups, to take matters into consideration in a hand-to-hand manner, without discussion, without proper presentation of these instruments and also of the reasons. Also, the government's proposal, I must say, is extremely weak and weak on this side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u3	Thank you very much. There is no discussion and no explanation for this request. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. I propose to the assembly that it decide on the following decision: The proposal for a law amending the Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia to ensure financial stability in the euro area shall be considered on an urgent basis. If the decision is not adopted, the National Assembly will consider the draft law on a regular basis. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 41 votes against 32. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 32.]] I note that the decision has been taken and that the National Assembly will therefore consider that proposal in accordance with the urgency procedure under the envisaged 2nd item of the agenda. Mrs. Nigga, is she all right now? [[Yeah.]] Thank you very much. I would suggest that today's session is scheduled for the agenda which you have received with reference. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 72 votes against 1. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 31st meeting of the National Assembly is set. I am adjourning the meeting, which will be resumed at 3 p.m. with agenda item 1, which is with questions from Members and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u4	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, President of the Government, ministers! We're moving on to one. THE POINT OF THE DAY, THAT IS ON: QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 41 questions from the Member States in writing within the deadline. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244 and Article 245(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first two questions of the opposition member will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member shall have 3 minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of 5 minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member within 2 minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of 3 minutes. The Member who asks a question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On this point, Minister of Health Dorian Marušič, from 17.45 on, and Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mr Mag. Diane Jedhan from 16.40 on. You have received an overview of the questions that were not answered in the course of business.We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first two questions will be answered by the Prime Minister, Mr Borut Pahor. First, Mr Jože Tanko will ask him a question by the opposition Members. Mr. Jože Tanko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Honourable President of the Government and everyone else present! Libya has been the main foreign and economic target in this mandate, as you have spent more than four days there. Farthest from all the Heads of Government or Presidents of the Member States of the European Union. It is also very clear that no member of the world community has paid about as much attention as to Libya and its dictator Gaddafi. Some of your visits were accompanied by economists, several hundred million business reports were coming, and in the end even a billion euro business was being discussed. In particular, some specific projects in the vicinity of Benghazi and Libyan investment in Stožice were mentioned. The contracts were also supposed to be signed. One of the famous Slovenian directors, SCT Ivan Zidar, publicly thanked you for your help in concluding the business. Unfortunately, his company is no longer among the living. There is also a financial hole in the Colossae. I'm asking you: What commitments did you make to Gaddafi? What did Gaddafi promise you? And in particular: What was promised to SCT and Zidar and what to Jankovich and his financial abyss? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u6	Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u7	First of all, let me reject your introductory conclusion that Libya was a special foreign policy target for Slovenia. In this mandate, Slovenia has focused on regulating relations with neighbouring Croatia, and this has been successful. Thanks also to this high-ranking National Assembly and people's decision at the referendum. I have also sought to strengthen Slovenia's economic and political role in South-Eastern Europe, because this not only symbolically but also really helps to promote the reputation, the prestige of Slovenia in the international community and thus our power in making important decisions in Slovenia. Thirdly, I have tried to ensure that, and this has also worked, that we continue and strengthen our contacts with Moscow, Beijing and Washington, especially Washington, because, among other things, he is our security ally. With Moscow we have taken a big step forward, with Beijing we remain far from trying to strengthen bilateral relations that would otherwise be in our favor. In addition to Beijing, we have tried to strengthen relations with so-called BRIC countries. I think our journey to India has been successful in this respect and will be a good drive for relations, especially political and economic ones in the future. The next government delegation is likely to make its way to Brazil. I have also made an external policy effort to ensure that Slovenia, with the knowledge and role it can play, is active in the international community in the face of its performance, and in this mandate we have been able to do so to a certain extent. Why, among other things, did I travel to Libya and other countries in North Africa? Because at the beginning of the mandate we found very quickly, together with the economy, that it needs policy assistance in finding new markets. In particular, we looked at those markets that would provide an opportunity for construction. Libya was then in the process of rebuilding infrastructure, offering opportunities for business. The Slovenian Government has concluded a memorandum of cooperation in the field of economics with the Libyan government, and nothing has been demanded and promised beyond this memorandum. It is true that I have done good work, not only at Mr Zidar's request, but also at the request of other economic operators in Libya and elsewhere, for the relations of our companies with governments and the competent authorities for investment in those countries, because I thought it would always be part of the job of the Prime Minister. It was important to me that it was not me, not the party, not the one who was not authorized, that there was no benefit. And he didn't have any. Not in the case of Mr. Zidar, not in the case of the Conquests. As far as Mr Zidar is concerned, it is only relevant that I, as in many other cases, transmitted his letter to the Prime Minister, my colleague, as I have done. And I think it is right for every Prime Minister to do so when he travels to a foreign country and is accompanied by an economic delegation to do what he thinks is good for business for every economist in this delegation. As far as Stožice is concerned, I've asked their government to consider the possibility of an investment. And they did. However, as the events unfolded in Libya, everything turned upside down and Libya is recovering today, and we wish it a happy path to democratic and economic recovery. Slovenia wants a new government of good relations, and it has already established them.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President Borut Pahor. Mr. Jože Tanko, would you like to complete your answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u9	Thank you so much for that answer, but it's not perfect. You have not travelled to any country on the issue of foreign policy and economic affairs four times in a short period of one year than to Libya. Dear President, in this part, your answer is not correct. Second. I asked you about what and what commitments were made with regard to SCT and Stožice, which of these came true. And the problem is how our foreign and economic policy was assessed. No Prime Minister has been to Libya so many times in the last year before Gaddafi's fall. And even now that the situation in Libya is changing, we have not taken any important steps in Libya. There are, say, representatives of the French government, President Sarkozy was there, then the English government. Our representatives, who just before the fall of Gaddafi, were eager to go to Libya, had not yet been there. And that's one of the main problems. Libya is in fact devastated, many construction operations will be needed, much more than before the fall of the Gaddafi regime, and Libya has maintained all the oil it has. In short, the reasons for anyone to go to Libya in time after Gaddafi’s fall was more than enough, and we have done nothing in this area. If the commitments were made and you say they were that there was a signed memorandum, I am also interested: How are we going to do this? Even if we condemned Gaddafi's fall so late, none of our people were there. The Prime Minister certainly does not, nor does the Foreign Minister, travel through safer locations. Things in this area have not been well prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u10	President of the Government, Mr. Borut Pahor, please. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u11	Comrade Tanko, with all due respect to the right to reconsider the matter at your discretion, you must not report to the Government on one hand that it has been in Libya too many times and then too many times. Last time I was in Libya – I think I was three times, but I did not count – along with the President of the European Council and many other leaders at the summit of the European Union-African Union. That there would be no misunderstandings when violence occurred in Libya, the Slovenian government condemned it. We've made contact with the transition world. We are also involved in an operation in humanitarian work, in the establishment of a democratic Libya. All of this has been happening, but, of course, in terms of economic diplomacy, the priorities have been taking place recently, as planned, and no new ones have been, because there has simply been no chance or time for this. We even had to cancel some visits, not take any more of us. Once again, let me say that I did what I thought was right, and I would do it again because I feel that there is nothing wrong with the Prime Minister if, at a time when the economic delegation is in a hurry to visit the Prime Minister or otherwise visit senior government officials or visit his country, he is providing in a good way for the acquisition of Slovenian businesses on this market. That's the whole point of economic diplomacy! What, though, is economic diplomacy as an aid to the political authorities of the country in establishing economic contacts between Slovenian companies on that market? And that's what I've been doing. I think it would be very wrong for the next Prime Minister not to do this as much as I think it is necessary for Slovenian companies. See, construction is the sector where we have the most problems, and for construction it is necessary to find the right destinations. Libya was not only Slovenia, but also many others thought of this cruel, inappropriate and violent regime as the destination in which they came and tried to enter into business. Slovenia was no exception. So don't tell me or try to impose on me some knowledge that I reject that the government was in favor of the previous regime, and it won't cooperate. Surely, as soon as possible, we will work well together in this too. We have contacts with them, and I'm sure at the right time there will also be some added value. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, would you like to make a procedural proposal? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u13	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say, with this answer from the Prime Minister, I am not satisfied. In fact, no statement I made through the oral question was confirmed. The President of the Government said that he had been on a visit to Libya, that he had participated in the collection or collection of business for the Republic of Slovenia, also for investment in the Republic of Slovenia, but on the specific question which of these was intended for the builders, which of these was intended for, say, financial investment in the Sožice, but we did not get any answer, no definitive figures, none of that. And if the President of the Government actually participated in the design of these businesses, in this economic diplomacy, and if he also said so at press conferences and also received thanks from those for whom he did so, then perhaps he could also tell the members of the National Assembly about what kind of business it was, where, what amount and so on. He didn't say that. The other thing that is, in fact, a problem or even a bad feeling, is that in the end of the Gaddafi era, you became extremely involved in obtaining business in Libya. Now that these eras are over, when the new democratic authorities are established, there is no going and no representative of the Slovenian government, not the President of the Government, not the economic or foreign minister, with no delegation. Here come the others. And here we cannot in some way get rid of the feeling that you have some moral reservations about the new authorities in Libya, that we actually have some dumplings because we supported and so intensively cooperated with the previous dictatorship that it is now difficult in the short term to actually do anything concrete with the new structures in Libya. The second is the question of these investments in individual projects in Slovenia. When you, as Prime Minister of the Government, sought financial assistance, financial investment in the Sožice project, in fact, you admitted that it was an investment that was not covered, even though the Government, with a modified invitation from the Ministry of Education and Sport, also allocated almost EUR 10 million to the Sožice. And it is obvious that this project remains a major problem. Honorable President of the National Assembly! I will not ask the President of the Government to reply to the incomplete answer, because tomorrow is a crucial day, and if necessary, we will then make this request and design it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u14	Mr Jože Tanko, you are the leader of the parliamentary group, an experienced Member, you know that this procedural proposal of yours was intended to express the procedural proposal. If you didn't intend to go ahead, then you know you shouldn't have those words either. On the part of the opposition Members, Mr Franci Kek will raise a further question to the Prime Minister of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u15	Thank you for your word. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! Members of Parliament and Members of the Council did not support the intervention law on Friday. At the same time, we have warned that the law is too late to have the desired effects this year. In Zares, we have been alerting some in the government for a long time to the agreements reached, the government's decisions, the stability programme and the irresponsible conduct of some in the government. However, already in the preparation of the government's first human resources plans in 2009, the Ministers of the Interior and Defence, with your support, have exercised privileges, this is a permit for substantial additional employment. Minister of Public Administration Irma Pavlinič Krebs pointed out violations of the decisions taken. Despite this, the Minister of Defence hired 500 additional soldiers in 2009, and the joint police plan increased by 300 new police officers. Such discharges also meant that infringements were permissible for individual other ministers and their departments. All privileged ministers received additional salaries from the reserves of the Ministry of Finance each year in October, in particular the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Education. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! I'm asking you: In the future, how will you prevent such violations, or what are your plans to limit employment?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u16	President Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u17	Tomorrow you, honourable Member, as well as the other members and members of this High Council will decide on my tasks in the future. If you express your confidence to the Government by supporting the proposal for a list of candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers, then you will also assign me the task of, together with the new Minister and with all colleagues and colleagues of the Government who will have full powers, to prepare the necessary amendments, which will constitute the sustainability of the public sector. First of all, we will have to ensure that we remain within the fundamental limits provided by the fiscal policy set by the Eurogroup as a condition for us to remain within it. This means a low budget deficit and a sustainable debt. In order to achieve this, we certainly can no longer afford an increase in expenditure at the expense of revenues, so some rationalisation will also be needed in the public sector. As you know, Minister Krebs and I had a plan to bring about a more thorough modernisation of the public sector by the end of the term of office. We didn't make it. Perhaps if we receive such an assignment, at least part of the government will succeed until the next election. An integral part of this modernisation is not just stopping employment, it must be more or less equally strict for all. Why do I say more or less? Here I would like to be very honest with you – because some of the crisis has led to the need for adequate staff that cannot be redeployed within the public administration or the wider public sector, such that you need new jobs and that you need people with the necessary professional references for these jobs. Taking into account the fact that we cannot deviate significantly from the decisions we have taken, it will be necessary to stop employment, except for those exceptions which will be necessary so that we can carry out the inevitable obligations of the State. Secondly, it will be necessary to liberalise the labour market within the public sector. By the end of the year, the unions and I agreed to freeze wage growth and eliminate disproportionately the obligation not to reach their salaries at this time. In the course of this year, if the government has a mandate, the government will have a very hard discussion, a dialogue, and let's hope for agreement, with trade unions on the necessary wage policy measures in the public sector, which, if the situation in the financial markets continues to be so unpredictable and sharp, will probably require some of the measures that go beyond the proposed intervention law, which has received too little support in the National Assembly. We need to be open about this. I would not predict much more today than I have said, because this is more than enough to determine some direction the government will follow if tomorrow the Minister of Public Administration gets the confidence and thus this government. I wish this could work, but it's your judgment. If so, we will certainly first have a social dialogue with trade unions in the public sector, see what can be done, rationalise things, come up with a proposal before Parliament and try to get support for it. If the minority government gets the confidence, the votes of Members and Members of the coalition will not be sufficient and it will also be necessary to convince you, honourable Member, that proposals in fiscal management measures are sustainable and beneficial.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u18	Does Mr. Franci Kek want to complete his answer? Here's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u19	Thank you for your word. One small supplement. In view of the fact that we are aware of how dangerous it is to watch the parties to the above-mentioned violations, we have already addressed, as part of the coalition on you, Mr President of the Government, a written request for action towards the consistent implementation of the Government's public sector employment decisions, but we have not been heard. However, we did not support the unfortunate intervention law because it was only to rescue the disobedient ministers, who, contrary to the Government's conclusions, increased the number of employees in their departments, and therefore, unfortunately, it was only a mirror of inconsistent conduct or abandonment. Dear Prime Minister, I ask you, given that you have mentioned openness: Will you still follow the government's previous conclusions on limiting the number of employees in the public sector or in which direction this policy will go?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u20	Prime Minister Borut Pahor, please
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u21	With regard to some structural reforms, the question is how much space and time will be available for them until the next elections, either early or regular, in general, due to a lot of unpredictable and very rapid changes in our wider domestic environment. Here I am referring to the euro area and the area of the European Union. However, if there are options for this, we will not delay the necessary changes. It is clear, however, that if we are to succeed, we must reach some fundamental agreement with the social partners. Even when we reached an agreement with the social partners, however, the agreed content went then, say, to the referendum, did not receive adequate support at the referendum, although it received support in this high assembly. So we need to conduct negotiations very delicately, but at the same time with some strong determination to change things, because things cannot go forward in the old ways. That's why this is the direction we're going. What concrete steps are we going to take, she tried to tell the candidate for the Minister of Public Administration at the hearing. What solutions will we come up with in front of this high house, and it also depends on dialogue with trade unions in the public sector.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Mr. Franci Kek, do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u23	Neither will I ask that we discuss the answers at a special meeting or in the next meeting, because, as the President himself said, we will discuss this tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Before continuing, my fellow Members and colleagues, I would like to inform you that I have been informed that due to the outstanding obligations already agreed, the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Borut Pahor, will be held from 16:00 on, and will not be able to attend further consideration of the questions sent. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In accordance with Rule 65 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to amend the order of the answers to the questions raised by Members of Parliament, so that those three questions, which are intended to be addressed by the Minister of Public Administration, are raised before the President of the Government leaves the meeting of the National Assembly. Half an hour is the time, and I think these questions can also be answered in the event of a change of order. I therefore propose that we change the order in which questions are addressed or asked in order to first ask questions under order numbers 8, 11 and 44, and then normally on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u26	Mr Jože Tanko, I don't think you have a business basis for this, but given that the President of the Government agrees to be asked questions, I would not want this to be a precedent, because then we will put this as a wish and a request for cases where ministers or ministers will be absent on official or other obligations. It is the case that individual agenda items are dealt with in a specific order. The order of questions put forward is based on pre-planned rules, and I therefore do not think that this would be a good practice to be introduced, and in this way, despite the good will of the President of the Government, I do not think that this would be an acceptable solution. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think your advisors are giving you bad advice, and I don't think it's good for them to do that. I propose that you put a procedural proposal to the vote that the National Assembly, who is here, decide whether this change of order will be made or not. The Prime Minister of the Government has expressed his agreement that he is ready to respond. I see no reason not to agree with the proposal of the parliamentary group and with the wishes of the President of the Government. The vote in the National Assembly is what decides what it is and what it is not, not the opinion of the Secretary-General of the Government, who has often shown that it is not right in relation to the proposals. I propose that we vote on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u28	Procedurally, Mr. Pavel Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u29	Dear Mr. President! I propose that you do not put this question to the vote. I'm not voting, anyway. It's an abuse of this article. This Article refers to the amendment of the item within the agenda of the meeting, but not to the change in the order of the questions sent within one item, i.e. the first item of the agenda. The second question is whether the President of the Government, who is also v.d. Minister, he wants to answer, it doesn't bother me, but I suggest you don't put it to the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Pavel Gantar. I think that this complex can be easily resolved, even in the light of the opinion and solution expressed by the President of the Government of Borut Pahor, who will postpone his obligations after 17 hours and participate in the answers to the questions raised in the order in which he is asked. I think we can move on. We are moving on to the answers to the parliamentary questions raised at the 30th meeting of the assembly. Minister of Finance Dr. Franz Križanič will answer Mr Zvonk Černač's question about the reduction of investment funds. Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Let me answer the question. The question concerns the reduction of investment funds. In this regard, we can provide an indicative answer to the question, but it does not cover the response of concrete projects. Since investment funds are shown in the budget in accordance with certain laws governing public finances in its third part, this is the development programme plan or the NRP, the interpretation is based on this source. Thus, the results of the analysis of the implementation of planned activities for projects consisting of NRPs show that in the past financial years the poor use of the planned funds has been significant. As a rule, budgetary resources for projects were used significantly below planned values even in the years when the rebalans were adopted. Over the past four years, the best results have been in drawing on budgetary resources for this purpose in 2009, when the implementation of the current budget plan for NRP projects was 14% below that plan, while in 2007 it was almost 20% lower than planned. Data for the period 2007-2010 show that at the end of the financial years 2007, 2008, 2009, more than €300 million remained unexploited annually, with the fact that the budgetary allocations foreseen for the funding of projects during the period under review increased each year and exceeded the 2007 amount by more than €652 million and several more, despite the relatively poor exploitation index in the previous year. This means that EUR 383 million is more realized than it was three years ago. As your question is based on the fact that the investment part of the previous budget will face major difficulties in terms of the reduction in resources, the projected volume of appropriations for this year should be compared with the previous years' data. The data show that, despite the austerity attitude in adopting the 2011 budget changes, more budgetary resources were allocated to projects than in 2008 and that a rebalancing estimate at the level achieved in 2008 when tax revenues were higher than in 2011. In determining the volume of funding for projects, account was taken of the facts arising from trends in previous years, as well as the desire for a more realistic planning for the use of budgetary resources for these purposes. In preparing the balance, we have directed budget users to adapt the dynamics of project implementation to actual implementation options and to check the availability of resources and, if necessary, change priorities. Let us add that in view of the different way of budgeting, when measures are included in the third part of the budget of the NRP 2011-2014 in addition to the projects and the whole budget is thus shown, the comparison of absolute figures in the work of investment expenditure is no longer possible. Investment expenditure is no longer covered only by the projects but is also allocated under certain measures. The total value of projects and the new measures shall also be determined by all expenditure or expenditure necessary to achieve the planned objectives under each component of the national development programme. The above points have also been taken into account for investments in local communities where, by means of a proposal for a rebalancing of the state budget, the available resources for co-financing investments to municipalities under Article 21 and to the individual municipality calculated under Article 23 of the Community Financing Act, the ZFO continues to decrease from EUR 45 million for 2011 to EUR 26.5 million. These funds will be given priority to the payment of current ones, namely those arising from already concluded and signed contracts with municipalities, for works carried out amounting to 6 million 600 and a few euros, the remaining part will be intended to partially cover the commitments for projects which the municipalities have submitted to the invitation to co-finance investments under Article 21 of the Community Financing Act. In line with the proposal for an intervention law, this year's payment for projects carried out by municipalities alone will be 50% for projects co-financed by EU funds and more than 50%. Since the marriage has fallen, we have a little more flexibility here. The situation is, therefore, that the funds after the rebalancing are provided on a semi-annual basis, which is beyond that, and can be settled by 31 March of the following year, or if the needs or projects are to be completed, even in the first days of January. I wouldn't read any more because I'm running out of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Mr. Tinker Bell, would you like to complete your response?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Although the minister said that the amendment to the intervention law was rejected on Friday, the answer was clearly written before Friday, regardless of what happened. At the July session, I asked about these funds, when it was not clear how this novel intervention law would be, it was €18 million 520 thousand 930, which was not approved on Friday, but we know that the amendment to the intervention law was not adopted. The new intervention law, however, was a formal legal basis for not having to pay off this year's investment in municipalities. Now this formal foundation is gone. I ask the distinguished Minister not how, when, how and, of course, when, I expect that as soon as possible, the Ministry of Finance or the Government will ensure the reallocation from other items of these 18 million €520 000 for investments to municipalities, because otherwise the implementation of the balance will be contrary to the legislation in force. We know that the amendment envisaged that this 18 million and a half will be redistributed in the following year, by the end of March, this provision has been rejected since the amendment of the law was not adopted, and there is no longer any formal basis for the municipalities which are already carrying out these investments and which you have already issued even conclusions on the implementation of these investments, which means that the municipalities have started the process and these investments are ongoing because they have been in good faith that this matter, as confirmed by the conclusions, will also be realized, that these funds are also provided and pointed out in due time this year. Otherwise, a number of investments that represent an investment in general social and municipal infrastructure will be threatened, there would be enormous damage and, of course, there would also be some illegal or illegal situation. That's why I want to know: When will the Ministry of Finance and Government redistribute these funds to the municipalities for investment?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u34	Complementary response. Mr. Dr. McKinley. Franz Križanič, Minister of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u35	The fact is that investments, if the situation were to be such that the intervention law and the rebalancing were adopted, do not stop, but only delay at the beginning of the next year and thus relieve the public financial situation this year. With the situation that we have a rebalance that does not provide all resources and that the intervention law has fallen, we will actually have to adjust the other forms of spending and settle the whole part that actually reaches the level that the state has to pay for it during this period. We will no doubt provide these resources with appropriate redistribution.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Grill will also be responsible for the awards and meetings of members of the boards of directors and supervisory boards of undertakings in the majority state ownership of the Minister of Finance, Dr France Križanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u37	With regard to the question raised by the Member States, it should be clarified that the competence of the management of companies with capital investments through the adoption of the Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia is transferred to the Capital Investment Management Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. The Agency shall be an independent and independent State authority in charge of the National Assembly. The Ministry of Finance cannot, therefore, interfere with its powers under the law. The Ministry of Finance or the Government does not have legal powers to take directly legally binding measures in the field of majority state-owned management of companies. However, in June 2010, the Government adopted a recommendation on the limitation of salaries and personal income of employees in public companies and companies owned by a State managing public economic services. The aim of the recommendations is to encourage the administrations and supervisory boards of public undertakings and companies owned by the State to act responsibly in the payment of salaries and personal benefits of employees in companies. In this context, the Government also encourages responsible behaviour in the payment of prizes and meetings. While the Government's recommendations do not constitute a legally binding act, they clearly express its position on the promotion of austerity measures in the area of payment of wages and personal benefits in enterprises owned by a majority of the state. The government therefore expected that the agency's position contained in the recommendations would also be properly implemented in the country's capital investment company management code. However, the adoption of a code of recommendations by the Government regarding the promotion of austerity measures in the area of pay and remuneration does not contain any remuneration. With regard to the issue under consideration, it should be pointed out that the Ministry of Finance has drawn up a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Banking Act adopted in July 2011 and has made an important contribution to the legislative regulation on remuneration policies and practices in credit institutions, private or state institutions. The reason for the adoption of new rules in the field of credit institutions stems from the identification of the weaknesses of the financial system that emerged during the financial crisis. In particular, these are rules governing the operation of credit institutions and the remuneration or remuneration policy. It happened that the prizes created an irrational business and actually did not follow the performance of the individual credit institution over the years but only for one year. We had a bank that was typical of this kind. Receipts increased the risk to which credit institutions were exposed. The aim of the new rules is to ensure that the remuneration policy is integrated into the risk management of the credit institution. The new rules thus introduce a new, reliable and fair system of awarding benefits that is consistent with effective risk management. The main solution of the law, which partially implements in Slovenian legislation the 2010 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the supervisory review of remuneration policies, is, for the first time, to determine in particular that, in establishing a sound and reliable management system, the Bank must also guide the policy and practice of remuneration and rewards that enable and promote adequate and effective risk management. Secondly, the supervisory board of the Bank must appoint a remuneration committee if the bank is relevant to the banking system of the Republic of Slovenia. Thirdly, the Bank undertakes to disclose information on the policy and practice of remuneration and remuneration used by the Bank of Slovenia when comparing the remuneration systems in the banking system. With regard to the implementation of more detailed provisions for the supervisory review of remuneration policies, the new Bank of Slovenia provides that it will be empowered to provide for a whole range of more detailed definitions concerning remuneration, a more detailed definition of employees with a specific nature of work, more detailed principles and rules on remuneration policies and practices, including risk adjustment requirements, more detailed rules on the application of the principle of proportionality and the abandonment of remuneration policies, more detailed tasks of the internal audit service, more detailed definition of tasks and more detailed composition of the remuneration commission, more detailed criteria for defining the importance of the bank for the purpose and appointment of the remuneration commission, more detailed duties of the members of the supervisory board. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u38	Completing the answer? Mr. Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Look, Minister, it is already clear from this reply that the government is ineffective and does not know how to lay hands on those who abuse their monopoly position. The new Ljubljana Bank is one of the key institutions in Slovenia and is also responsible for the situation in the economy as it is. And as a mockery of this, supervisors and administrations pay excessively high wages and, of course, rewards. To say that the government is not directly responsible and that there is nothing he can do to limit it is attracted to the hair. When we adopted a law in this mandate introducing the so-called Capital Investment Management Agency, we have constantly warned you by the SDS that this is just a cover for the establishment of an independent agency, under the terms of the terms, which will be able to do what individual actors dictate in the background. And that turned out to be true. Has the government done anything to call to account the president of this agency, Mrs. Komarjevo? We see that Dars does not take this agency into account, this agency does not take into account the Government's recommendations, nor does it take action against those violators who are more than obviously abusing their position. That's why I want to know: If this agency has acted unprofessionally, contrary to the code, why have you not initiated a procedure to dismiss the management or the management of capital investments? To say that the government has nothing to do with this is unconvincing. You are the one most responsible to ensure that such machinations and abuses no longer occur. And now the bank has 70 million losses, instead of having a profit, plus 450 million euros of additional recapitalisation. And what will be the result? More awards for supervisors and the administration of the New Ljubljana Bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u40	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u41	Thank you. For a little while. The system is such that it separates the daily policy and regulator, including the finance ministry, from the direct management of individual economic operators. That is why we have set up an independent agency, which is not independent of the sky, but has responsibilities to Parliament, not to the government. This should place this firewall among daily policies, party interests and definitive responsibility for business. I think that this responsibility can be exercised by Parliament and requires the Agency to take appropriate action where the recommendations after saving have not been taken into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u42	Mr. Grill, please, you still have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u43	Thank you very much. In view of what Mr Minister has just mentioned, this is an excellent point to propose a procedural proposal to hold a general debate on this issue in Parliament, where it will be possible to point out once again that Parliament or the government is essentially the same – it is a matter of political interest and in fact there is no difference. We will see whether Parliament or the coalition and the fictional coalition will support this proposal in order to have a general debate, because from the media it has been possible to detect numerous violations and non-compliance with proposals, suggestions, recommendations by both governments and other institutions, and of course this agency is acting on its own. And to be done here, which violations she has committed, what should be done so that such maneuvers do not take place in the future. Perhaps I would just mention a comment or a statement by the President of the Capital Investment Management Agency when she stated that her agency or this agency was only an extension of the Ministry. It means that in the background there is a ministry that formally or informally dictates how to proceed, everything else is basically just a show, a theatre for the public. I expect and ask the coalition to support this procedural proposal, to hold a debate and to see what this agency has brought good or, as I am sure, much worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u44	On the proposal of Mr Ivan Grill to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance to his question of the delegation, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 20 September, in the framework of the votes. The Minister of Finance will answer the question of the Magi. Sarah Wheeler in connection with the possible collapse of the euro area.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Your Honor! With regard to the issue of possible scenarios at the time of the possible collapse of the euro area, the Ministry of Finance explains that the current discussions within the Council of the EU or Ecofin, this is the Council of Finance Ministers, as well as the euro group, do not cover measures related to the decomposition of the area of the common currency, so the Ministry of Finance does not foresee the collapse of the euro area in its work and proposals for action and acts, but all proposed solutions are focused on measures to ensure the stability of the euro area as a whole. To this end, Slovenia, together with the other members of the euro area, participated in the preparation of amendments to the existing temporary European Instrument for Financial Stability of the ESF. In this way, the EFSF's full lending capacity of €440 billion is established and is expanding the set of instruments through which the EFSF can provide financial assistance to a Member State in financial difficulties in order to cope more effectively with the current challenges of the financial crisis. In addition to lending to Member States, the measures also cover operations on the primary and secondary bond market, the precautionary lines and the possibility of recapitalisation of banks. In addition to this, the euro area Member States have also agreed on a permanent mechanism for the protection of the euro area, which is a European stability mechanism for the ESM, organised in the form of an international organisation and will also take care of the stability of the European currency after the end or termination of the EFSF. Of course, the euro area Member States, including the Republic of Slovenia, are aware that the euro protection instruments in question cannot be successful unless they are backed by consistent fiscal consolidation and structural reforms. This is the only way to ensure the preservation and stability of the common European currency and to continue to benefit from its positive effects. The country's membership in the euro area brings advantages in trade in the single currency, access to financial markets and sources of finance, lower transaction costs and also means greater stability, confidence and security of the financial system. All euro area Member States are fully aware of the benefits of the common currency and therefore the scenario of the collapse of the common currency area is not the subject of current discussions. However, membership also requires a certain responsibility and solidarity with other countries of the single currency area in difficulty with a view to protecting the common currency and thus to protecting itself. On the question of possible stored tolars, however, according to the explanations by Banka Slovenije, which was responsible for the destruction of the Tolar banknotes, we explain that the Tolar banknotes were completely destroyed, leaving approximately €42 million in circulation of such banknotes lying in socks and not being available to the regulator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u46	Madam Members, would you like an additional explanation?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u47	No, no, no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u48	Mr Finance Minister will answer Mr Guid Kres's question on the long-term procedures for the revision of public procurement. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Your Honor! All public procurement legislation has been subject to several amendments over the last two years, namely the laws governing public procurement procedures, namely the Public Procurement Act and the Law on Public Procurement in Water, Energy, Transport and Postal Services, as well as the law governing legal protection in these proceedings. In addition to the transposition of the provisions of European legislation, the main objective of the amendments was to rationalise procurement procedures and legal protection procedures. To this end, contracts for goods and services of EUR 20,000 continued to be published on the public procurement portal in 2010 and construction of EUR 40,000 further. The contracting authorities can only check the most favourable offer before they had to check all the tenders received. They may also take into account evidence received in previous procurement procedures. This year, the Law on legal protection in the procurement process provided for new solutions to ensure the rationalisation of legal protection procedures. Short deadlines are set for the submission of an application for review against the possible discriminating nature of the tender documents for 8 working days, the repeated submission of audit requests against the same infringements is prevented when the contracting authority refuses an audit request, the legal remedy procedure shall be automatically continued before the State Audit Board. To date, applicants have been required to submit a request for the continuation of legal protection in writing. Given that the records of the Ministry of Finance show that an investor who fails to comply with the request for review with the contracting authority generally continues the legal proceedings before the State Audit Board, such an arrangement makes sense. The State Audit Commission must take a decision on the audit application within 15 working days. According to the status of this commission, its decision is comparable to that of the court. In more difficult cases, the deadline may be extended by 15 working days. The 2010 Annual Report of the State Audit Commission shows that 43% of audit requests were resolved by the Commission within 10 days, 73% by 15 days and 85% by 20 days. There was no such harsh demand at the time. Only 4 % of the audit applications were resolved within more than 35 days of the maximum time limit for deciding before the new law was implemented. More than one month's delay in 2010 occurred in only 16 cases. Despite efforts to rationalise procurement and legal protection procedures through legislation and to introduce greater flexibility, practice shows that this is often not the case. The contracting authorities shall prepare too extensive and formalisms of the full tendering documentation and at the same time shall not make appropriate preparations for the procurement process. They shall not carry out a market analysis which is essential for the determination of the estimated value and for the knowledge of the supply on the market. They shall not precisely define their needs, the subject matter of the procurement and the objectives pursued by the procurement procedure, and shall frequently use the tender documents referred to in the previous procedures, without correcting all the provisions in such a way as to comply with the new objects of the procurement. Such conduct poses an increased risk for the submission of audit requests and prevents the rapid award of public contracts. It's about the law and the lifesaving behavior of the contracting authorities. In regulating legal protection in procurement procedures, account must also be taken of the fact that, at the expense of the speed of the execution of public contracts, it is not possible to reduce the legal standard, which is a constitutional category. It is also required by the European Union. In view of the situation in the economy, the fight of tenderers for each business is expected, in particular one where the payment is fairly rapid and reliable. The Ministry of Finance is therefore not preparing further amendments to public procurement legislation in terms of shorter deadlines. The contracting authorities must make more efforts to prepare the tender documentation and initiate procurement procedures in due time and take into account the possibility of submitting audit requests. With regard to the supervision of the implementation of public procurement, the Ministry is exploring the possibility of introducing new instruments of this control, which cannot already be equated by European law with the procedures for the legal protection of tenderers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u50	Do you want to complete the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u51	No, no, no. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u52	The Minister of Finance will be responsible for Sam Bevek's question regarding the earthquake recovery in 2004 in Posoča. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia Samo Bevk asked a question at the 30th meeting of the National Assembly on 11 July 2011 concerning the earthquake recovery in 2004 in Posoča, how and when the earthquake recovery will be completed after the earthquake which took place on 12 July 2004. From the point of view of the competence of the Ministry of Finance, we are responsible for the following. According to available data, the total amount of the earthquake recovery following the government's decisions and annual programmes from 2004 to 2010, including grants and business damages resulting from the earthquake, amounted to 40 million 229 thousand 904 euros and 54 cents. Of these, the funds paid were 36 million 854 thousand 563 and 8 cents. However, the purpose of the distribution of funds is as follows. Under the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment and Space, 38 million, a good 34 million, were paid from a million 300, paid a million 200, under the responsibility of the Government's Structural Policy Service for Reimbursement of Business Damage 866 thousand, paid 852 thousand. The 2011 budget has provided 7 million 100, and this has been reduced to 5 million 900, and we expect that this is enough for this year's end of funds for all the contracts from this source to be paid.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk, would you like an additional answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u55	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I thank the Minister for his reply, but I have just one brief additional question. I want to know: Should the contracts already concluded be overstated from the 2011 budget balance, will these differences be able to be paid from the budget reserve, as was informally explained by the representatives of the Ministry of Finance? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u56	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u57	This situation will, of course, need to be examined. This is expected to be sufficient if an open obligation arises, but this is usually settled from reserves. Following the usual procedure, I would say that, in the very specific case, I should review the documentation.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u58	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the question of Members and Members. Mr Zvonko Černač will address the question to Mr Borut Pahor as Minister of Public Administration. Here you go, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u59	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Pahor as currently responsible for the area of public administration the question of employment in the public sector and state administration in recent years. I am interested in the total number of employees in the public administration and the total number of employees in the public sector today and ten years ago. Unlike the economy in which we have witnessed bankruptcy in the last three years, I have consequently abolished over 50,000 jobs in the public sector, which have not been rationalised. The publicly available statistics speak of over 3,000 new jobs in the last three years. The wrong message was also transmitted by the Government itself, since by setting up new and new offices, public institutions, new and new agencies itself, it has taken care of the wrong signal. Instead of restricting it, there was an expansion. Therefore, the appropriate time for tracking and managing a different policy was in spring 2009, when Slovenia faced tight conditions. The adoption of appropriate measures during that period would maintain a wide range of jobs in the economy and de-barrication and abolition of individual para-national and unnecessary offices and agencies would provide a clear signal for the management of restrictive policies in this area. With the last amendment of the intervention law to freeze employment, the government, at the same time containing five exceptions, acknowledged, on the one hand, the failure of its own policy over the past years and, on the other hand, acknowledged its inability to do so. We've heard before that she didn't even make her own decisions. As a result of this law, the number of employees would not decrease, but political recruitment would be even more pronounced not only in the ministries and the government but also in public institutions. The problem of overemployment in the public sector and in the state administration cannot be addressed administratively, it cannot be solved at least and through legal exceptions, but through deregulation, through simplification of a number of self-sustained, self-sustained procedures – first of all fewer offices, fewer agencies, fewer ministers, and not increasing their resources, as we have an example in one of the agencies, where the amount of rebalancing is increasing to almost EUR 2 million on an annual basis and, of course, working through a positive approach, i.e. by rewarding those performing comparable tasks with less human resources. Mr Borut Pahor said a long time ago that half of the employees in the public sector or in the state administration were over 50 %. For this reason, I am interested in: What did you do in the past months, after the resignation of the Minister of Public Administration, to take over the management of this department and to have a scissors and a canvas in your hands, to make the gap smaller? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u60	Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u61	Not as much and as much as you'd like. It has become clear that in order to be able to carry out our work normally, it is necessary at the level of the Government to answer the question that will be raised tomorrow. So please also understand my incomplete answers, which are linked to my temporary function. I hope, not due to procedural or political protocol, but for purely human reasons, you can shed light on this situation. In the period from December 2010 to including July 2011, the number of public sector employees was increased by 309, representing 0,19 % compared to December 2010. The employment of non-governmental budgetary users, judicial authorities, municipal administrations, municipal public institutions and funds is not affected by the Government. The largest increase is recorded in the health sector – by 695 or 2.19%, because the founders of health homes and pharmacies are also municipalities. This is followed by an increase of 180 jobs and 1.63%. In health care, a higher number of employees are due to the ageing of the population and the increased need for health services due to the increase in the incidence of public health problems, the rapid development of medical technologies, and the need to take into account the human resources situation in health care, which for several years has been recording the shortage of staff and the changed forms of work, the replacement of business and copyright contracts. Social protection, however, increases the number of homes for the elderly and thus increases the number of employees in these homes. As I mentioned earlier, there are certainly some services and jobs that can be filled with transfers within the public sector, even more easily within the public administration, and there are also such needs for knowledge and experience that cannot be met through re-employment, but people who have the necessary professional references need to be employed. In the area of social protection, the State finances the activities of institutions, which also carry out additional programmes for municipalities, assistance at home, preventive programmes. In view of the fact that human resources institutions have also addressed employment through public works, this fact must also be taken into account in the context of the increased number of employees. In 2011, the State did not increase the number of employees in public institutions in the field of social protection by funding activities, except for the implementation of the new tasks laid down in the Law governing mental health, for which several coordinators were employed. In the field of education and education, in July 2011, according to December 2010, there is a 353% reduction and 0.61% reduction. As early as June 2011, 57 000 728 public servants were employed, 472 public servants more than in July 2011. With the school year completed in July, their number decreased. In the field of education, where the founders of primary schools and municipality kindergartens are founding, the number of employees in kindergartens, primary schools and music schools is increasing, while the number of employees in secondary and higher education programmes is decreasing. The increase in the number of people working in kindergartens is associated with an increase in the number of children and with increased participation of children in kindergartens. During the school year 2009/2010, 5 thousand 158 more children were enrolled in kindergarten than were included in the previous year. Thus, 71,000 124 children were enrolled together, while 66,000 children were enrolled in kindergartens a year ago. In 2011, the number of children enrolled in kindergartens increased by more than 5,000, representing about 600 additional jobs. The second reason for increasing employment in education is the increased supply of higher education programmes, the development of adult education and lifelong learning. An increase in the number of employees has also occurred in agencies where the number of employees has increased from 733 to 810, representing a 10% increase. The main reason is the establishment of the new Public Aviation Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, which took over 35 employees from the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u62	Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Otherwise, I didn't get a full answer. I have asked about public sector employment for the last 10 years, because this is a problem that has been emerging for a long time, which was ideal for solving in crisis situations at the end of 2008 or the beginning of 2009. You yourself said, and here I share an opinion with you that it was not done great in this area even at a time when you were head of the Ministry of Public Administration. That there are more employees, there is no need to argue about this, in the last year, the former Minister of Public Administration has also acknowledged that. This is also the result of the 2011 budget rebalancing, where there is an increase in the amount of public sector salaries. Therefore, apart from some populist statements, there were no measures to establish a weak and efficient public administration, a weak and efficient public sector, even though there have been repeated predictions of regulating the situation in this area. If the director of a company publicly stated that half or 50% of its company were too busy and did nothing to optimize its business, the owners would replace it immediately. It would have been replaced even earlier if we found that it was setting up new and new sectors in the company, which were increasing the number of employees. In any event, such a director would not become the main employee in the company. And that's exactly what happened at the government level. So when and how do we expect effective measures? The aviation agency was mentioned. In addition to 35 employees, respected Mr Pahor, there are still 37 to be re-employed in the plan. This is your government document. So doubling the number of employees in one agency only. I only cite this as an example, but there are many other examples that have been set up. That's why I'm really interested: Where, how and in what timeframes does the Prime Minister see the path to minus 50%, which he has announced publicly?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u64	Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u65	That was my grade, and I'm gonna stay with her fast when I don't do this job. In part, I have tried to answer the previous questions in response to what we are going to do, and I do not have much to add to them. Tomorrow you will be able to decide on the fate of this government ahead and, in accordance with your decision as President of the Government, I will be able to coordinate the work of ministers and such a demanding business as a very disciplinary and careful reduction in the number of public sectors, particularly in the state administration, I trust, if you so decide, the new Minister of Public Administration. Besides, I'm sure when you get a mandate to run the country, if people trust you like that, they'll do it better than I do, and I'll be happy that you'll succeed, which I don't.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u66	Mr. Blackach, do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u67	I must be honest with you that I did not intend to propose this, but because I can say a few more things, not because I would like to make this proposal to hold a debate on this answer in the National Assembly, I am making this procedural proposal, although I do not think that there will be an opportunity after tomorrow's vote. The area of employment policy in the public sector and in the state administration is certainly one of those areas that has somehow demonstrated the direction of this government over the past period. It has shown this duality in all its contents. On the one hand, there are many speeches on rationalisations, on greater expertise, on non-political staffing, on reducing the various procedural and bureaucratic barriers, on the other hand, on practical practices that show that during this period it acted exactly the opposite of the documents adopted by the Government itself. Earlier, a fellow Member in a question he raised as a matter of the Prime Minister said that neither the conclusions adopted by the Government had been realized. It is said that the Government was not in a position to ensure the implementation of its own decisions, which means that it did not have some minimum credibility in order to make some minimum order in this area and to establish a situation in which an effective lean state administration and an efficient and lean public sector could be reached. In many documents, which were quite a few, for example, I have here before me the National Reform Programme for 2011 and 2012, it has been written several times as to what direction – the rationalisation of the organisational structure of the administration will be carried out in the direction of reducing the number of organisational units at all levels, bringing together areas and competences and so on. And what was going on? On the contrary. New and new offices, new and new agencies, new and new funds. No new added value from this, only an increase in expenditure, an increase in resources in an already difficult financial situation where the revenues of the state budget are falling year after year. This year, we see in the balance that for about 300 million these revenues will be lower than in last year’s year or as planned or forecasted. However, there was no policy aimed at optimising costs in this area. The culmination of all of this was an intervention law, which was further known that it would not save anything or a novelty of the intervention law, even if it had been adopted, since it already had 5 exceptions in place. There would be nothing, except for another demonstration haloefficacy in front of the domestic and foreign public, as it is intended to limit employment in the public sector. No matter what, I think this debate would be welcome.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u68	On the proposal of Mr Zvonk Černač to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government in office, now in his capacity as Minister of Public Administration, to his question of the delegation, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 20 September, in the framework of the votes. Let's move on. Mr. Franco Yuri. He's not here. That's why I keep going. Mr Anton Kolarič will ask the Member of the Minister of Health, Mr Dorian Marusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ministers, Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The construction of the Ljubljana ER is certainly one of those projects in the health field, which is very unfortunate for me. For many years we have been waiting for it to be built up and it seems that the problems of construction companies after the start of the economic and financial crisis are moving beyond the deadline for construction to the future. The initial completion date announced by former Minister Bručan is expected to be the end of 2009. However, according to currently known data, it is not possible to assess when the project will actually be completed. I ask Mr. Minister of Health: At what stage is the project currently under way to build the UKC Ljubljana emergency block? When do you expect the project to be completed? When may a new contractor be known or at least an ongoing call for this? What will the Ministry or Government do with regard to the original contractors, the construction companies that built in between and failed this project?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u70	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u71	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members and Members, Mr President, fellow Ministers! Thank you for that question. According to available projections today, the DTS project is expected to be completed at the end of 2014, if investments are possible in 2012, 2013, 2014, as planned. Since I'm allowed a little more time, I should be allowed to look into the past. The construction of the emergency block falls within the broader context of the diagnostic-therapy centre and the hospital block. According to current projections, the total investment is almost 111 million. Let me remind you, when the project was launched in February 2005, this project was worth 33.4 million. In August 2008, an agreement was signed between the user, the University Clinical Centre Ljubljana and the Ministry of Health to modify the project, complement the programme as part of the investment of diagnostic and therapeutic services. So we're not just talking about the emergency centre anymore, we're talking about the operational part of the University Clinical Centre, we're talking about the hospital block, we're talking about other necessary investments. The project has expanded significantly. Of course, in this long story we need to add some of the known complications that took place in 2009 and 2010. On the basis of this agreement, a number of documentation related to the design and acquisition of the building permit had to be drawn up. The initial agreement was signed with a consortium of three companies: SCT, GPG and Vegrada. These began with investments at the end of 2007, and in 2009 problems began, followed by the collapse of Vegrad and later the SCT and GPG. and despite these strong efforts to move activities from Vegrad to the other two companies, these two have experienced a similar fate. Thus, in February 2011, I was forced to terminate all contracts, cash a bank guarantee for 2.5 million and the process of obtaining new operators began. Where are we today? I can say that we have removed many, including legal obstacles, provided building permits and activities are finally moving. The necessary construction works are being carried out to move imports from Negoša road to Bohoričova street. The kitchen in DTS is implemented, the contract was signed with the contractor Lesnina Equipment, d.d., and the kitchen was expected to be completed in February 2012. The procedure was closed days ago and we acquired operators for the communication core and helioport. This means that the activities are to begin and that the communication part is to be completed after the contract in May 2012. Emergency transport of patients could be carried out, landing at the helioport and being carried over the communication sail or, at home, by lift to this section. The necessary activities are also being completed for the completion of public works for construction and trade works, installation works at DTS, the revision of equipment censuses. Activities are actually being drawn up and may be a similar picture to many other projects. I am aware that I do not conceal my statements, but it would be difficult to accept that we have not accelerated our activities in the last two years. We have moved important activities, and in fact it is no longer a building pit, but the activities continue. If the funds are also provided in 2012, 2013 and 2014 following the current plan, in agreement with the University Clinical Centre, and if we remain within the framework of the agreement of 110 million necessary resources, this facility is expected to be completed by the end of 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u72	Would you like an additional answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I'm glad things are starting to move. However, I must say that I personally participated in the first ideas that were in 2001 that were 10 years ago as Ljubljana's Deputy Mayor and the President of the Council of the Medical Home Ljubljana, which has in this emergency block or as you now call a diagnostic therapeutic and service facility, I believe that my premises are also SNMP, General and Emergency Medical Assistance. Of course, I hope, after what you said, that we will actually get this necessary facility in 2014. In the current premises, which are extremely inappropriate for the time we live in, there are very self-sacrificing health workers, and I think we all deserve this facility together, both those who work there and those who are as few of their guests as possible. I hope that all these efforts made recently by the Ministry will lead to the completion of this necessary building.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u74	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u75	Of course, as Minister, I join your honest thoughts. Without setting up a network of emergency centres, it will be difficult to reorganise health care for the quickest possible help. But we could also learn a lot from this project. Perfectly, I reached out to six, seven years ago, when the idea project came into being. At the time, there was actually talk of an emergency block, which was 33 million. This included emergency medical care and something else. Later, the project was upgraded or extended to the current 110 million and not only covers this emergency block but also everything else. However, following developments over the last two years, if funds are provided in 2012, 2013 and 2014, the project and the facility could be completed in 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u76	Mr Miro Petek will ask Mr Borut Pahor as Minister of Public Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u77	Thank you for your word. With regard to public sector employment, there are very different figures and percentages in the public sector, of course, depending on the time period we are taking up. However, there is also evidence that between December 2008 and May this year the number of employees in the public sector is greater than 4 000 123 employees, and probably another ten or hundreds of employees have been added in recent months. If we were to estimate more on the finger, we could say that at annual level, we spend an additional EUR 200 million on additional public sector and public administration employees. The proposed intervention law, which fell last week, prohibited or restricted additional employment while also allowing exceptions and apparently also for these coalition personnel. As has already been said here today, the restriction of employment could also be limited by the conclusions of the Government, but this has not happened. According to some data, which are present in the public domain, this time, all ministries, for an indefinite period of time, employ a large number of client staff, which are bound to the mandate, to the cabinet, but are provided with jobs before the end of their term of office. Apparently, there are even lists of whom to hire, of course, in such a way that everything is in accordance with the law, that the facade is arranged, but these invitations are written on a specific person or exactly on a given name and surname. I've been getting a few messages about this lately, e-mailing people complaining about it, applying for invitations, having better conditions than those that were accepted, but stayed out. The employment of a client underage and individual parties to the faithful for an indefinite period of time, of course, costs the country well and, on the other hand, such customeristic practices lead to a breakdown of values and morals, which will certainly be harder to establish than to solve the financial crisis itself. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. President of the Government: How many so-called political jobs have there been in the public sector in recent months? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u78	Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u79	As honest as I have previously answered your colleague, Mr Chernač, I also answer you. I said earlier that it wasn't done as much as I wanted, and that's why I'm taking responsibility. I must tell you equally frankly that I do not know any of the cases that you are referring to in the question. If that's the case, please let me know. It is not known to me that without any lists exist, without any of the employees having received this place because of the privileged situation, by way of rules that would normally apply. I have to be honest with you that I don't know that. If so, please inform me, send me to the office, please also inform the public about this, it is unacceptable and completely contrary to what I have always tried to do. At the same time, when it is very frank and clear that the role of the Minister of Public Administration in reducing employees or holding decisions we have taken in this regard has not been done as much as I wanted or should have been, I must also tell you frankly that I am not aware of any bad practice that you are mentioning. If that's the case, tell me where it is and who it is. This is certainly not the case in my office, and I am also responsible, and at the Ministry of Public Administration, Mrs Secretary of the Government is helping me and I am not aware of any bad practice, nor for the ministries. If that was the case, then this phenomenon should be put on your toes immediately. Since the beginning of my term, I have been sensitive to this kind of bias, and I am sensitive today, and I will also be when I no longer perform this function. As it is said, if there are unacceptable phenomena, I do not know if you will inform me that they are and we will find out, I will act immediately. This is unacceptable, I have always opposed public services only because of client references or other biased references that are not common, and I insist on this today. If so, please inform the competent authorities and I will act and they will act. I don't have this information, and I have to be very honest with you. And please, now you have a chance, tell me, if it's my office, and I know so many of my people, and I'll tell you right now, if you're right, you're wrong. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u80	Would you like an additional answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u81	Dear Prime Minister, I'll tell you right away. I myself have sent a number of written questions to all ministers on this subject, and I have received some very interesting answers. For example, the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians, in place and around the world, Mr Žekš is signed and replies to me that at the beginning of the mandate there were 13 people employed, today there are 17, "we did not, during the term of office, hire anyone who was or would otherwise have been employed in the office for a certain period of time and we do not intend to hire anyone from the office until the end of the term". This reply was sent on 19 August 2011. Please note, however, that on the Ministry's website, which is run by you, this August 9th, a call for the employment of a secretary at the Office of the Government for Slovenians has been published in place and around the world, and also the blind Mr President of the Government sees that it is a political accommodation, and this is from your political circle. Why all the scheming? Such an answer shows that it is a certain mud background. I personally think it was the pressure on Minister Žekš, I don't know why Minister Žekš would put himself in his teeth like that, or someone who gave him such an answer, a false answer, planted it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u82	The Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor, answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u83	No offense, with all due respect for academic Žekš, I have no doubt about his actions, please don't doubt mine, either. Do you think that I advised the academic Žekš to do any work or that academic Žekš would be prepared with his now legendary autonomy, independent judgment of things willing to hire him if anyone would say anything like that to him. Let's look into this case. Why don't we just take it as an "in case" and have it searched and found out what's on this thing. I don't know exactly what you're talking about. Maybe there's only one thing I should read if time allows me. See, compared to data on the number of so-called cabinet posts in the mandate of the previous government and their careers following the termination of the post of official to whose mandate they were assigned, it can be concluded that, according to the central staff records of the government authorities, out of the 143 public officials who had entered into a fixed-term employment relationship related to the personal trust of officials in the previous government, 60 civil servants were still employed by the public administration authorities for a fixed-term or indefinite period of time after the end of the term of office of the previous government, 83 such public servants had been terminated either during the term of the previous term of office. Look, I want to say that we are trying as hard as I can with my personal mandate to make something that was a bad practice of the previous governments, because it also allowed circumstances for this practice not to continue. If you have any other information, we'll go from case to case. Sooner or later, if I don't say it, the mandate of this government will expire. Among the other bad and good legacyes I want to leave one that I think has a positive message, and this is that the country cannot be a reserved place for politically loyal people to get a job just because of this reference. This must not happen, and I will make sure that as much as it will and is in my power is great, even if I lose my full powers so that this will not happen. That is why I would like to clarify these cases today, so long before the end of this government, and make sure that some bad practice which has been so far will not be repeated at the end of the week. That's what I want to give you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food to Mr Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u85	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr President of the Government, ministers and others present, colleagues and colleagues! Since it is morale, it has also been announced, Minister of the Jews on his way to Brussels, I am still asking the question of a Member of Parliament and I would like to receive an oral answer at the next meeting. It is, however, that the rural development programme 2007-2013 has identified a series of measures aimed at improving the sustainable development of rural areas. And one of these measures was measure 112 — Aid to young farmers, which defines one-off financial assistance to young farmers for the first ownership of the farm. It's all right here. In the three tenders so far, it has also been stipulated in the tendering terms that the date of ownership of the farm is considered to be the date of entry into the land book or sufficient submission of the application for entry into the land book. As is known, this year in the National Assembly we adopted a new Law on the Land Book, which had exactly the opposite effects of the desired ones, since the procedures have been greatly extended and the applicant does not have any leverage to determine at what stage of the procedure his land-book proposal is also at. In this way, the State is more bureaucratic about procedures in which the investor has no influence and is left to the mercy and mercy of the Land Book Court. This is what I asked the Minister of Justice earlier this July. As a result, the investor may delay the time limits set out in the invitation to tender and may be deprived of funds, I would stress, without his guilt or any possibility of influence. I ask the Minister: Why did the Ministry decide to amend the conditions of previous years to this year for the acquisition of grants included in the Regulation on rural development measures for the period 2007-2013 in 2011 and 2013 adopted by the Government on 14 April and on the basis of which an application for assistance to young farmers is required to provide proof of entry into the land book? However, I also have the initiative to examine and change the conditions so that there will be sufficient entry proposals, as was the case before, because of the problems that have arisen on the land book and which the takers cannot influence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr President, according to your statement, Minister Židan will answer your question at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Ma'am mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will ask the Minister of Health, Mr Dorian Marusic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u87	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members, Members, distinguished ministers, Mr. Minister! It is likely that everyone would agree that it is not acceptable to spend millions of euro of public health money in the absence of health resources in a transparent or inconsistent manner. Everyone would also agree that it would be unacceptable if instead of medical money was used to finance the building and information lobby. If this is what the leading ones at the Oncology Institute do, where most of the sacrificing doctors and other health care professionals are trying to treat the most difficult patients, it is especially worth judging. This is exactly the kind of event that was reported on page 3 of this month’s work. It reported a negative opinion that was to be issued by the Court of Auditors to the Oncological Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for 2009. Inadequacies are expected to be identified in the payment of salaries and allowances, in the procurement of medicinal products and computer equipment, and irregularities have also been identified in the accounts. The Court of Auditors was to find that it was a violation of the Public Procurement Act and of the non-transparent operation of the Oncology Institute. At the same time, Work reported that the Oncology Institute was charging the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia with a high price for medicines. I was also warned by part of the health staff of the Oncology Institute before I was recorded in the media. In the last five years, from 2006 to the end of 2010, the Oncology Institute is expected to spend at least €22.5 million more on the basis of a drug consumption plan than it actually did on the purchase of medicines. According to Del, money is supposed to be spent on construction and information business. Since this is a document of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia which is supposed to be proof of non-transparency and violation of laws, I am interested in: What were or will be the measures of the Ministry of Health in this public institution? I'm asking: Did the Ministry of Health, at the time of your administration, take any action against violators of the Health Act, how much and where? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Mr Dorian Marusic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u89	Your Honor, Mr. President. Honourable Member, colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you for that question. I should also be allowed to go a little further into history here and firstly stop at the Court of Auditors, the audit report on the regulation of the field of medicines in February 2009, which showed that the consumption and costs of medicines in hospitals are indistinguishable and that the decision-making process itself on how the funds are intended is non-systematic. At the same time as the adviser to the Director-General of the Health Insurance Institute, I learned carefully and after taking over the post, we addressed the problem in the following way. We first revised the analysis of the allocation of funds for biological and innovative resources and the funds used for these products since 2006 and found, of course, not as large a number as you mentioned for the Oncology Institute, but it was a diversion, and immediately informed the payer, this is the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia, to take the appropriate action to make it clear that they are clearly between their planning and the realization of major gaps, which I believe is not acceptable in 2011. We have accurate data on patients with this serious disease, we have a register, one rare in Slovenia, we have epidemiological data, and we could plan for these patients significantly more planned and systematicly. We have therefore informed the institution that an appropriate measure has been taken. Second thing. Since the Health Council is my consultative body, I have instructed him to look at and study all the programmes that have been placed through the Health Council in the funding system, whether they have been implemented, whether the patients are actually receiving these medicines, and if not, to initiate appropriate initiatives to do so. This project has shown that practically medicines that have been approved since 2006 in the healthcare world are also available to Slovenian patients and hospitals, which I think is good data. More or less, I've just described some measures. Of course, as Minister, I also have measures that can be taken in the field of legislation, so at the end of 2010, I adopted a regulation on the classification of medicines in lists. This Regulation also allows the classification of hospital medicines and introduces a system of reporting on the consumption and costs of medicines in hospitals. According to the information I received the last time at the Assembly, which was very receptive, the media also reported this and not only the unintended use at the Oncology Institute, but also hospital medicines were not yet classified in 2011, the institution has until the end of 2012 to put all the drugs on the list. In order to be able to monitor the use of medicinal products very carefully, we agree in general, this is a system of agreement between partners operating in the healthcare system, to adopt a provision that the institution or all operators must monitor patients, planned, used resources, both by diagnosis and by the amount of funds used. I think that operators now have, above all, all possible tools to monitor patients' spending closely and that, in my view, we should actually focus on more transparent funding based on the needs of citizens. Third move. In view of a number of comments, not only from the media, but also from the public authority itself, the opinion of the Court of Auditors, which you mentioned, I have consulted or also met with the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. The comments which were in some way exceeded the possibility of the Minister's direct influence on the Oncology Institute. It was agreed that we would go into joint control. Since this did not happen, I made my own decision and ordered the legal supervision of the Oncology Institute. I'm afraid it's not finished yet, and I can't give you a report. Once completed, it will also be made publicly available. All the controls we carried out at the Ministry of Health are publicly available on the website. The activities were, I am sure that the message that I am trying to give today, that there were irregularities, I agree, we have dealt with them analytically, with the measures in the rules and agreements we have brought in so that the funding system can be transparent and, in fact, what you say, I agree, it should be for those who use it, for those patients who need these funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mrs. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, would you like to complete your answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u91	Yes, I would like to ask because Mr. Secretary has failed to say everything he has planned. I am pleased that measures are going in the direction of a systematic solution to this problem. I hope that there will also be administrative controls and that some measures will be taken on this basis. However, I think that given that the Court of Auditors has already made its findings, it would be time for something to be done. If the anti-corruption commission is also involved, I think it is also right if this money was actually used to build buildings, for the costs of a new administrative building, as wrote in Delo, and if the unusually high costs of information technology are also at issue. I therefore support these measures that you are implementing, but I think that, on the basis of what we already know, we should take further steps before all the other results are known. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u92	He wants the word "minister"? Mr. Dorian Marusich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u93	I can only join in so I can wish that all procedures would go even faster. In any event, the payer of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia has all the tools to plan and fund funds on purpose, for all irregularities back, I hope that administrative supervision will detect them, if not, I will extend it accordingly, so that procedures are carried out. I just wanted to point out that we are aware of the problem of biological innovative medicines, but I can tell you that the picture is completely different in 2011. If we talked years ago about the explosion of the necessary resources, today with all the tools we have introduced, we can ensure that those who need these drugs also receive them. In particular, by means of the sub-legal acts introduced in 2010, with the permeability of generic medicines, patients with this serious disease are also treated with biologically innovative medicines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr Vinko Gorenak will ask the Minister for Finance Dr. Franc Krizanič a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr President, my parliamentary question concerns 2009 and 2010, specifically budgetary users, even more specifically on wages, work performance, overtime, copyright contracts, business contracts, student work. The Minister certainly has too little time to answer all this, he has already given me some information in writing, but I must also say that I find that there is little problem with answering a minister who has no leverage to influence these things. In a way, it is not the right minister, because each minister should be responsible for the situation in his own field. But let me tell you the following numbers. Look, I've been able to calculate some things myself from publicly available data. The ministries or budget consumers were invited, both in 2009 and 2010 with different government conclusions, to lower, lower and again say lower costs, which is also understandable in terms of government. But it is true, as I said yesterday, that some ministers simply do not respect it, they consider it a little more, some ministers respect it in part, and some are rather restrictive. Look, a few numbers to compare. If we exclude wages and talk only about performance, jobs, copyright contracts, business contracts and student work, data on the employee – do you imagine that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has spent EUR 9 000 220, out of pay, on one employee, or 20 workers' wages, almost 20 workers' wages on one employee at the Ministry, but let's say they have diplomats there and I don't know who else. And we're going to the government's Law Office. In addition to regular salaries, the Government's legislative service paid EUR 8 000 946 gross in 2010, which is either a stupid crazy number or a high figure. Interesting, Ministry of Culture, see, 3,000 48 euros, next to wages. I don't know what they have to do. The Statistical Office, including in the cabinet of the President of the Government, EUR 3 000 211 and so on and so on. However, if I mention the lowest consumers, see EUR 376 in the administrative unit, the number of employees has been down for 8 years and more than 10% have come or 630 euro in the police force. In short, these numbers seem too high for someone to pay 20 gross wages in addition to regular wages through these kinds of supplements. I believe the minister will say something, even though he himself by these numbers at the Ministry of Finance is one of those who makes the decisions of the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u96	Thank you. Answer, please, Mr. Križanič, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u97	Your Honor! The Ministry of Finance is at the disposal of the members of the High Council, with the relevant Directorates for Public Payments, to obtain the information they need to assess the functioning of the Slovenian State, Slovenian economic policy, orderliness. And in this context, we have also provided the relevant data. The time was very short, so the structure of the tables here would not be indicated. If any Member, including Dr Gorenak, would like further or greater expertise, it would take a little more time to ask the question and the final result, because this is a considerable amount of information processing. But of course, for the first time, we owe it, and, secondly, we are happy to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr. Vinko Gorenak, would you like to complete your answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u99	Formally, yes, I would like to skip this second part and suggest the third part, if I may, by the rules of procedure, if I may not follow the rules of procedure, let me know. Mr President, I propose that, indeed, the Minister of Finance is not the right Minister for the answers to these questions, I propose that we hold a public debate on this and invite only those ministers who do not respect their own decisions and decisions by the President of the Government in this area. If you can arrange this business, you'll decide for yourself. Thank you very much. In short, I propose a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u100	Would you like an additional answer, Mr. Franci Križanič? [[No, no, ……]] Please, procedural proposal, Dr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u101	Thank you. I said, decide, Mr President, but I think that these ministers, particularly Mrs Shirca, should sit here, for example, which was so very generous, and some other ministers who simply do not respect the decisions taken by the Government. You know, to pay for 20 workers' wages next to a regular salary, but I think it's pretty bad not to say tasteless. But there are some ministers who have been very respectful. For example, even the Minister of Transport, who is here, I see that he has been lowering the costs according to the Government's conclusions. But you have ministers who simply don't, like the Government Office for Law, the Statistical Office for example, interestingly, and so on. These absolute numbers show very large numbers. See, the Government's Law Service, EUR 230 000 for copyright contracts, or, say, the Minister of Justice – you can imagine, when the 2009 budget was adopted, I said that the problem with the Justice Minister, who from a few ten thousand euros by 300% increased the funding for copyright contracts. See how much he spent: 125 000 in 2009, after the government's decision to reduce this, it increased to 316 000 euros. Yeah, for God's sake, come on! In short, I suggest that if you arrange for those ministers to answer in accordance with the rules of procedure, I will be very happy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Dr. Vinko Gorenak. On the proposal by Mr Vinko Gorenak to hold a discussion at the next meeting on Dr Križanič's reply to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, on Tuesday, 20 September 2011, in the framework of the vote. Ma'am mag. Sara Wheeler will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food to Mr Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u103	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present! Since the Minister isn't here, I'd like an oral answer. The adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Lands in May has already produced the first results, dissatisfactions and criticisms among future builders of buildings, regarding the amount of compensation for the change in the destination of agricultural land. The initial purpose and presentation of the law is based on building blocks and against the cultivation of working surfaces. The competent authorities rushed to explain that the adoption of the law is absolutely necessary, as Slovenia is on the tail of the scale with the least processed agricultural areas per capita. The purpose of permanent protection of the best agricultural land was thus to reinstate the payment of compensation for the change in agricultural land, which was abolished by the State in 2003, but soon after the adoption of the law there were shortcomings or better said legal anomalies. This is how investors, future builders, experience the day-to-day plague after most young families, who often solve their first housing problem, when, at all costs and red tape, they receive a decision to pay compensation of more than EUR 10 000. The biggest problem arising from the adoption of the new law is certainly the fact that land compensation is paid by owners whose land has long been wally, as well as by owners whose land has become habitable recently or by adopting a new municipal plan or municipal spatial plan. How can a country that should protect its citizens afford to take their rights back into the law? Who exactly is he protecting?Oh, my God! The Spatial Planning Act clearly states that the building site is a plot or part of the building, or a plot of land, which is intended for the construction of the building with a municipal spatial plan. With the adoption of a new Law on Agricultural Lands, the owners of building land are entitled to the right resulting from this. We are talking about the right to build on the ownership property that was granted the status of the building land in the spatial plan. I ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food: What does he intend to do in this area to eliminate the anomalies? In view of the current situation, is the Ministry already considering how this law would change the way and the amount of compensation paid, and who is liable to pay that compensation?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u104	You will receive an oral response at the next meeting. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will ask the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Roku Žarnic, and Mr Borut Pahor, in his capacity as Minister of Public Administration, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Dear Minister, I do not see the President of the Government in the public administration function at this very moment. During the term of office of the current government, the Ministry of Public Administration and the Ministry of Public Administration, as the Ministry of Coordination and Owners of State-owned Real Estate, often opt for unreasonable rentals of premises for state institutions and frequent relocations of institutions. It seems that the corrupt way of renting the premises of the National Investigation Office by the former Minister of Kresal's Government has not been studied, since the incomprehensible, financially harmful rents and resulting movements of state institutions are being prepared and carried out. The latest incomprehensible move is planned by moving the Institute of Waters of the Republic of Slovenia from the premises of Hajdrich 28c, where the Institute has been 35 years old, to the building of Litostorsko. The Institute for the Waters of the Republic of Slovenia with a building on Hajdrich has mastered according to the principles of a good and faithful master, which has been good for 35 years. There are also laboratories and workshops that are essential for the professional work of the Institute. In the immediate vicinity there are other institutes with which it is professionally connected, so that the solution is extremely rational at the moment. At the same time, moving to a new location in a professional sense is catastrophic and completely contrary to public expenditure reduction policy, as the cost of smaller spaces such as the current one will be higher by EUR 250,000 per year for the Institute. That's why I'm asking: Does the Government have in the background a plan to abolish the Institute of Waters of the Republic of Slovenia as a public institution or for what reasons does it destroy it? Since the building and location of the Institute for Waters of the Republic of Slovenia are exceptional, it is quite clear that there are private interests in the background. Similarly, in the planned relocation of the Health Care Institute from the Prešeren Square building. That's why I'm asking: Who's really interested in the building, and who suggested moving to the government? Are there accurate information that the Institute of Hydraulic Research and the Institute of Photogrammetry will move into the building? Which public persons are the owners of these institutions? And another thing we hear: Is the medium-term relocation related to the interests of February from the Municipality of Ljubljana about the private use of the Colezia swimming pool, is there a private hotel planned and therefore it is necessary to destroy the Institute or for this fantastic building to be owned by someone?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u106	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Members, Members, fellow Ministers, distinguished Mr Jerovšek! I am very sorry that those who have encouraged this issue have provided extremely inaccurate and strange information. I've known this institute for a very long time, I know the story about this institute, and I know the details that are very awkward and obnoxious, I wouldn't publish here, especially the details of their scientific excellence, which is about 48 people three times worse than the scientific excellence of the middle school department, which has 3 people and so on. This is a measure that will allow for better cooperation of the Institute, which the state pays 2.5 million a year. The issues, if we go to see in detail, can be very strange in the work of these workers, who are involved as owners of companies that have worked with this institute in the past. In order to establish control and better cooperation and work, this was a decision. It's a move from a state-owned facility to a state-owned facility. This is about rents that will not be higher, because now that this institution needs to be transferred, because it is a matter of state property, even paying compensation, these things will be equal. In addition, I have to say that there is no speech in any combination, I firmly deny any statement or suspicion of some strange combination, as they mentioned, and I cannot agree that it is any kind of ownership. With the possible relocation of someone else, it will be a matter of moving within state institutions into state ownership. In addition, I would say that this institute is younger than you said. Because they were reorganizations with some other institutes. I must say, this institute has not used equipment in research in 10 years. On projects – 2 ongoing projects – out of 13 they work only 2 with the Institute, and these tasks are from biological science. I know that equipment installed somewhere is available to quality researchers, whether it's five kilometers longer or closer. I visited the world institutes myself as a guest researcher, in Bristol, in America, wherever I was invited, even though my office seat was in Jamova 2, in Ljubljana. All this information you have received is only an attempt by a narrow group to maintain the status of uncontrolled work within the Institute, despite the fact that the state pays very high money for their salaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u108	Would you like an additional answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u109	Mr Minister, now on what you said at the end, if this is true what you said, try a narrow group to hold onto something, then you must inform the National Assembly immediately. You can't say that everything is the way it is, but you can't say anything. The government has a duty to take care of economic use. I also want to know: What will be the cost of approximately the same functional equipment in laboratories, workshops? Now, I don't know, the minister described this institute very negatively, I don't believe it's that bad. Now for the second one. I ask the Prime Minister or the Prime Minister, look, the government's arguments are always the same. During this term of office, the government moved the agricultural ministry from that building that was previously in the former Slovenianes building, which is said to be even under mortgage, actually owned by Serbian drug addicts, such information is. However, in the building where the Ministry of Agriculture was formerly established, the Ministry of Government for Regional Development, that is another ministry. And that is where Mr Kos moved with his anti-corruption commission for significantly higher costs than he had before. The government service is also likely to cost significantly more. According to my information, as I have heard, the move of the Minister of Agriculture cost almost a million euros. Why is the government doing this? From one building to the next, another ministry moves to the same place, because this is unproductive for a layman. This is about private interests, moving profits, and so on, which go into the hands of the people. But when it turns out who's all in the background, the owners, it's possible to get a proper look at where the dog is praying, if I say "farmer."
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u110	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Look, in this case it's property, in both cases it's state property. There are no MPUs and similar stories as anyone here might want to know. One more thing, as I said, is for a perfectly organisational measure to make 2.5 million money for wages rationally and qualitatively used in water management, because we know what the problems are. Believe me, that's all this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u112	Procedural proposal, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u113	The experience of renting an area for the MPU is, in fact, threatening for the taxpayers of this country, and it is therefore very important that this matter and these relocations which the Government has moved from one to the other in this mandate and then to that building by another ministry. This is where I asked you if they were going to these places now from the other state institutes. You didn't answer that. Who are the co-owners of those institutions they settled there — and I didn’t get an answer. And because we do not again experience all the serious consequences that the State has with the rental of the building for the NPU, it is, of course, necessary to have a thorough discussion. So that the Minister can explain to us all the things he's spent here, including the functioning of this institute and so on. I therefore propose, of course, that, under the relevant Article of the Rules of Procedure, we hold a general discussion on the incomplete response. In addition, I asked another minister, who is not present here, so it is imperative that we do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u114	Mr Jožet Jerovska's proposal to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space to his question of the mission will be decided by the State Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, 20 September, in the framework of the votes. Mr Franz Jurša will ask the Transport Minister Dr Patrick Vlačič a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At the 21st and 28th regular meeting of the National Assembly in the oral question, I drew attention to the issue of increasing freight traffic on the route of the Vučja Vas-Ljutomer-Ormož and in the reverse direction. At the 28th meeting, I also announced that I would ask you again after the deadline you said the regulations would be adopted. It is mainly for trucks in transit via Slovenia, which by driving on the said route avoid the toll station Dragotinci and re-enter the regional road via Ptuj against Maribor. At that time, Minister, you replied that on the basis of the implementation of the Law on Public Roads, which entered into force on 1 July this year, the Regulation on the Restriction of the Use of State Roads for the Traffic of Freight Vehicles, which will limit traffic on that route, would be amended. Since we're already in the middle of September, I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, When will the promised change of the rule that will make life easier and easier for the inhabitants there? Let me just remind you that heavy freight traffic on regional roads, which are in poor condition, affects noise and air quality and thus reduces the quality of being on the road. Thus, emissions of harmful substances in the air, noise, vibrations and irrational use of energy sources are the most among the negative effects. It is precisely because of these harmful effects that hinder normal life and reduce transport safety that residents of Ljutomer and the surrounding areas have organised themselves into a civil initiative that seeks to limit heavy transit traffic. This indicates that life on the mentioned route is very difficult and that the inhabitants there are satisfied that no one listens to their warnings or that they receive only empty promises. Mr. Secretary, I want you to answer that. Unfortunately, I must say that this civil initiative that has been set up is also a consequence of the fact that we have not solved anything so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u116	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u117	Thank you. Commissioner Jurša, transport management with the aim of convincing, and if certain users need to be redirected to technical better infrastructure, thus achieving a more rational road management and protecting the living environment from noise and other heavy cargo missions, one of the priorities of the ministry I run remains. In May this year, when you highlighted the issue of increased freight traffic on the route of Volčja Vas-Ljutomer-Ormož and vice versa, I informed you that your proposal falls within the scope of proposals to limit certain sections of state roads where application will be limited by a new sub-legislative act restricting the use of state roads for the transport of goods vehicles whose maximum permissible mass exceeds 7.5 tonnes. The introduction of a restriction on the use of a particular part of a State road requires an expert examination of eligibility on the basis of a study aimed at establishing an increase in noise and emissions due to the spillage of freight from motorways to parallel state roads, the number of freight vehicles representing transit transport and the socio-economic evaluation of freight outflows. It is true that heavy goods vehicles on a parallel network also cause costs to the operator and, on the other hand, the measure to restrict the use of a certain section of the State road must not be disproportionately harmful to the economy, which is said to be the transport industry. These professional bases, which will form the basis for the decision on measures to restrict the use of individual sections of state roads or on the basis of which I will issue a new regulation on restricting the use of state roads, are at the stage of analysis of new and novelty of existing data. The act itself would not have been issued by March next year, which is in line with the Road Act. In addition, let me add that we will re-examine this issue at our ministry, because the transit transport of heavy goods vehicles on R1-230 regional road should prevent the restrictions imposed on the Ljutomer-Pavlovci section, where freight vehicles whose axle loads are more than 8 tonnes are prohibited, as pointed out by the two-sided appropriate traffic signalling. Apparently, there was not enough activity or a sufficient number of infringements. Since this would significantly reduce the pressure on the road we discussed earlier, we will be familiar with the abuse of that measure by the police and the municipal authorities that are competent to determine whether or not the goods are being overburdened on this road.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u118	Would you like an additional answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, I have taken a thorough look before today's session of the magnetogram of both answers, and I must say that the third answer relates to the remaining two answers, but there are always some hands and some promises. Of course, given that I am a Member of this area and that I have pointed out this problem twice and that in fact foreign vehicles, heavy goods vehicles avoid toll stations and thereby make the lives of the inhabitants of this regional road in some way difficult, I would say something should be done. Then, on the second question, you told me it would be after the month of July, and now you told me it would be the month of March next year. People live there and they're not happy. I'm alone among the signatories of the civil initiative and I have to tell you, if you don't change something, then you'll have a civil initiative in that place with a certain problem. Therefore, please give this matter, the rule of law, to be adopted as soon as possible and, as I have said many times before, to enable the normal lives of people on a regional road.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u120	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u121	I agree there are problems here. I'm going to try to make the rules before this deadline that I said here today. But there's one thing I have to tell you. In fact, the desire to close state roads, complete, all state roads before freight traffic are now such that they appear across the entire territory of the Republic of Slovenia. This is a problem, as European legislation does not distinguish between the foreign carrier and the domestic carrier in this respect. We cannot allow a domestic carrier to drive on a state road, and those who do not have Slovenian plates to ban it. The only thing we can do is close the road. In this case, the permissibility of driving on such a road shall be only in exceptional cases where the goods originate or sink or if the carrier is established or resident in that area. I understand the problem of these people. I, too, wish that there are such roads where transport is actually carried out that are not in the function of the Republic of Slovenia, if I may say so, as little as possible. However, we need to find a reasonable, smart balance, because it is also our automotive sector.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u122	Mr. Mag. Borut Sajovic will ask the minister of environment and space, Dr Roku Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Good afternoon, all six ministers! My question has already been sent to the Minister in writing, in several paragraphs and several articles, so I might not repeat it. The point is, Slovenians and Slovenians have quite a few problems with waste disposal. That, on the one hand, we have taken a major step forward in the last few years to make a substantial difference, but what remains needs to be postponed. The fact is, in Slovenia we have a large number of deposits, that we decided to make a large number of them by 31. 12. Let us fill in 2015, but of course these landfills need an environmental permit. And the vast majority of active, operating deposits in Slovenia have been given a negative decision by the Slovenian Environment Agency, which is contrary to the spirit and content of the new Regulation on waste disposal and landfills, which makes it easier and easier for Slovenia to take advantage of what it has. Of course we're dealing with a legal complication. I therefore ask the Minister in the first part: How do we solve the plot? When will the first holding meeting the conditions be granted environmental protection authorisation under the new regulation adopted at the beginning of the summer? Are these procedures already in progress? When will applications be accepted, and in what time will they be completed? And then there's the other part of the question. In Slovenia we are waiting for another regulation, which is also linked to the finance ministry, which refers to the prices of municipal services which are currently blocked, frozen. On the one hand, I understand and hold this, and, on the other hand, in line with the European decision on the environment, the payer – the burden of the citizen, the citizen, we are transferring to the municipal budgets, so that, of course, a large number of municipalities will spend €100,000 from the budget to pay for the service to be paid by the originator. This, on the other hand, means that financial scissors spread, fewer funds for kindergartens, roads, and more. I understand and support the way in which existing problems are resolved, but we must also see ahead and give to those who are dealing with this area, the municipalities, the municipal budget, a clear signal how we will save this for the benefit of all of us in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u124	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u125	Your Honor! Thank you for this question, which is very up to date. Maybe I'll start at the end with the good news I have here. In those days – six cases – a positive decision was issued, two more by the end of October. Three landfill operators are still in processing and we know exactly what's going to happen. So the problem is at least halved. I have to say something else, what I'm about to say is in the domain of Arsa, which is independent in this area. As Minister, I shall not interfere with administrative procedures and they shall act in accordance with the legislation and professional rules in this case alone. But what's a little bit closer to me and my influence, is the drafting of regulations, the work in the narrow ILO, where we're trying to sort this thing out as quickly as possible. Apparently, there has been some kind of double act here, which is logical and correct, but perhaps some kind of coherence was not what we wanted. But like I said, things are getting better. But it is true that this is a very old sin, because Europe has been asking us for a long time to resolve it. The utilities are asleep. The computers are that it may not be necessary, and in the end, there are six problems. These six problems, as I said, three are somehow being solved, three are still being solved, and we're going to try to bridge this gap between the two Tyres as quickly as possible. To say another thing about a document with a very pleasant name – MEDO, this is the methodology for determining waste prices. We have already processed the matter so much that one matter has proved to be that another analysis should be made regarding the impact on inflation. In view of the preparation of MEDO, not all data from municipal companies were available so that such analysis could be done. And when we came before the government, the legitimate question of Death was whether or not it would affect inflation at that time. Prices, prices and price freezes are in the Ministry of Economy domain. We're the ones who've been preparing the methodology. We agreed that the matter would be clearer and clearer, that in the next few months we would check, verify, validate the methodology. I hope that experts, colleagues from Umar, will also be able to prevent this thing from being a major disaster with us. But things are going to get better, and there's going to be a little bit more to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u126	Here, you want to complete the answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u127	Thank you very much. I am pleased with the Minister's reply, but especially with his current knowledge of the issue, especially with real meaning and listening to the fact that the matter is also on the legal and formal side, and even more so with the content level, if we have talked about two tracks before, let us put on one track and these positive messages, as far as deposits are concerned across Slovenia, I am pleased, because the dump, for example, is already half filled in in the nature of the wound, the degraded area to be filled and repaired, but not to open new, other locations. As far as waste prices are concerned, inflation is also affected by any new costs and increases. But as a success, including the success of the ministry, Mr Žarnic, which you are leading, this summer, we have attributed that we have begun to collect organisedly, perhaps even slightly under duress, biological waste. But now that we live in the belief that we are taking away biological waste, we care about it, and those who cause it are paying nothing because we do not even get to the price of a new service. I understand that you do not allow an increase, logically, many times we find in practice then internal reserves, fix the matter, improve it, somehow it goes. But where there is a whole new service, which does not have a price, and it is a price that falls on a utility or on local budgets, but there is a serious problem, and I am sure that we must work it out together as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u128	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u129	Thank you very much. We're also working on what you might already know, and it's going to happen this month. I'd like to take advantage of that for the EPP. I think that this waste story with municipal companies and our colleagues has somehow led to a happier end. When I look around, they are very interested in our experience, say, from two Croatian cities they will come here to see how we arranged for them to prepare for the European order when it comes. And even when we've been looking around the world a little bit, we're not that bad in this area. But what I'm really worried about is, because we're going to be very well disciplined to have those 8 centers out of 15 come to 8, 10 years from now, or 5 years from now, looking for and offering lower prices, fighting for waste, because, like my colleagues in the OECD told me, the only real business that's yet to be seen in Europe and around the world is waste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u130	Mr Iztok Podkrižnik will raise a question of the delegation to the Minister of Finance, Dr Križanič, and mag. Mitji Gaspari as Minister of Economy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u131	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, respectable colleagues! According to international tax research, Slovenia ranks at the very top of the countries with the highest taxation of labour, especially the highly educated staff, engineers, developers, which is key to the technological development and progress of Slovenian companies and thus the whole of Slovenia. The effect of the current taxation is that employers who are educated cost more than in other countries. The employees themselves receive a lower net salary than if they worked in one of these countries, for example in Austria. As a result, the trained staff, which is key to technological development, is going abroad. This makes Slovenia increasingly technologically lagging behind other countries, which is also known in our standard of living, prosperity and public finances. Slovenia is also moving away from the goal of being a knowledge-based society. In the document, the government cited the introduction of the so-called social cap, the limitation on the upper level of the social contribution insurance base, as one of the measures to come out of the economic crisis. This measure would relieve highly educated personnel, but this measure has not been adopted. I also did not see that any other measure would be taken to relieve highly educated personnel. That's why I'm asking: As Minister in charge of finance, and as Minister in charge of the economy, are you aware of these issues? Are you planning to take any measure to limit or solve this problem in a short time? Thank you very much. I also thank Mr Gaspari, Minister, for the reply I have received today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u132	Mr. Minister of the Cross, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Your Honor! We have a little expertise here. I hope I'll be good enough if I don't, but I'm asking questions so I can continue in an additional answer. At the Ministry of Finance, we are aware of the problems of the overall tax burden on highly educated staff, but the public financial situation in the short term does not allow the adoption of measures which would result in a reduction in the revenue of the state budget. In view of the distribution by income class of the debtors, 70 % of the taxable persons with income to the average wage by shifting the burden to the higher income classes, to the well-educated middle income class, with a neutral impact on the state budget, it is impossible to achieve tangible burdens. In view of the public debt commitments and targets, it is not expected that there could be reallocations by type of tax over the medium term, such as a reduction in the tax burden on labour at the expense of increasing consumer taxation or an increase in capital or property taxation. If so, then we will use this to reduce the deficit. You state that the effect of the current taxation is that the employer of an educated staff costs more than in other countries, resulting in the transfer of an educated staff abroad. In international labour burden comparisons, we need to draw attention to the different methodologies that are not always appropriate for Slovenia, given the average income level. In the case of international comparison of taxation, you refer to the study of the world-renowned Forbes financial magazine, according to which Slovenia belongs to the top of the countries with the highest labour tax. With regard to this study, it should be pointed out that it is inappropriate for Slovenia because comparisons are made at gross income levels which are very high for Slovenia’s average income position and are therefore exceptional. In the Forbes magazine, calculations are made at the level of €50,000, €100,000, €200,000 and €1 million. Average gross wages in more developed European countries, such as Britain and Luxembourg, are on average up to 4 times higher than in Slovenia, while in Germany and Austria, for example, their average annual gross earnings are around EUR 50 000, while in Slovenia, they represent an income of around EUR 50 000, which was around 280% of the average gross wage in 2010, amounting to EUR 17 000,938. In order to compare the taxation of income from employment, calculations from OECD Tax and Wages are usually used. In that publication and the methodology used therein, a comparison of labour taxation is made as a proportion of all taxes and contributions to labour costs, i.e. the so-called tax cap, for three levels of income expressed in proportion to the average wage in each country, at 67 % of the average wage, 100 % and 167 % of the average wage. According to this methodology, 2010 data show that labour taxation is at a level similar to that of the EU average and in Slovenia 15, but that in Slovenia, at all three levels of income is lower than in Austria and Germany, we are even slightly better, as far as this is concerned. However, if we look at the structure of the tax wedge in Slovenia, the income, social security contributions, we can see that the largest share in the tax cap in Slovenia is the social security contribution, i.e. 67% of the average wage is the tax margin of 5.7% and 32.9% of the contributions. For income of 167 % of the average wage, the tax margin for income is 14,7 % and for contributions again, clearly 32,9 %. At the Ministry of Finance, we are aware that the burden of income in the third tax class on income is too high, especially since the third-class limit is relatively low on average wages, which means that incomes above that limit are immediately taxed at a rate of 41 %. This means a relatively high taxation of the middle income class, to which the highly educated staff belong. This has been the result of partial changes in income in the past – we know in what past, non-profit-oriented and specific taxpayers. Discharge of lower income classes by introducing additional general relief, we have in fact raised the burden of high income classes by introducing three tax classes with a maximum rate of 41 % and excluding capital income from synthetic taxation, so-called additional taxation of non-activity income. You state that in the document of the exit strategy, the Government also cited the introduction of a social cap as one of the measures to come out of the crisis. That measure has been examined and has not been adopted for financial and substantive reasons. The reasons for the financial nature are that this would result in a decrease of €70-170 million in revenue and should in fact adjust the level of rights as they are adjusted where the social cap introduces it. That's how much I'd have.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u134	You want an additional answer, Mr. Mag. Gaspari? You don't want to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u135	Thank you for your word. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply, but we still have many companies with low added value in Slovenia. In addition, it should be said that most of this added value are given by these companies for their own labour costs rather than for their own development and thus contribute to the increase in value added. This seems to me as a result to have a positive impact on, I'll say, the revenue itself in the state treasury. In the past, many different calculations have been made, but in fact, I will say, these measures do not show any positive effects, not yet. I must say that this is a very important point, and I think that there will have to be a really new policy in Slovenia concerning competitiveness itself, because Slovenia must not give the impression that it is a country with cheap labour. We need to actually fight here to preserve these developmental cores, these development centres, and on this basis we can actually all live better together. I must say, a few days ago I visited and was present at the opening of some new development spaces of a foreign investor. With the help of JAPTI, we have received some additional funds in Slovenia, and I must say that everything is not so bad. It is not too late to actually create a better environment that will give Slovenia a new engine, says some freshness, that these developers will remain in Slovenia, it is said that this intelligence will not flow abroad. That seems crucial to me. I'd like to ask the Minister: What does he think of these measures? Is there any measure in view of any better situation in Slovenia in this area, or will it remain as it is today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u136	Mr. Minister, Dr. Krizanic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u137	Thank you very much. In principle, the measure, as it is said, should increase indirect taxes, either VAT, excise duties and reduce labour burdens in situations where a deficit of billions of 700 is planned, due to the freezing of new commitments less than that. Now we are calculating what this effect will be to present the first results to the European Union. In these circumstances, of course, it is not possible to increase some taxes and to reduce others in order to achieve some other effects other than the first effect, this is a reduction of the public financial deficit below the target of 3%, and then, of course, also the correction of this deficit. Finally, of course, the tax relief measure, both of which are the lowest, is said to raise general relief to the level of the minimum wage, which Austria has as a special relief for those who have higher incomes are relatively extremely contributing to social security. Therefore, fiscal space should be meaningful and the effects of appropriate development policies should give it meaning. We have made a lot of efforts, started with those development investment programmes before this government starts, we have continued this pace, the results of exports are already showing, they will show even more, and there will also be a viable improvement in public services and a more equitable social policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u138	Thank you. Mrs Alenka Jeraj will ask the question of the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Igor Lukšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u139	Thank you for your word. There's always too little money for kindergartens and schools. While we should be pleased with the increased number of children who need preschool education or who parents would like to include in kindergartens because of their employment, this means that there are municipalities that are obliged to provide preschool care, which is a source of food, of course the country is involved with its co-financing. An invitation to tender for the collection of project proposals for co-financing of investments in kindergartens and primary education in the Republic of Slovenia was issued in April 2011 and for inclusion in the development programme plan in the financial year 2011. I'm asking the minister: How and how did the choice take place? I do have some paperwork, but I'd like to ask him for an explanation, because 27. 6. You have issued a decision on the selection and non-selecting of project proposals and the order of individual projects. I know that choice and criteria are a very complicated matter, but what things can probably be easily said. How is it possible that someone who, after initial evaluation, has been classified in 58th place is placed in 8th place after the complaint, in order to change the order. I also want to know: Have complaints or administrative disputes been filed, and in how many cases? I am particularly interested in preschool care and also in your assessment: How did all the projects in the Municipality of Ljubljana, 6 kindergartens come to a close selection? The country will co-finance 11 kindergartens, of which 6 in the Municipality of Ljubljana, which means that almost half of the funds devoted to investment in preschool care are allocated to the largest municipality in Slovenia, while the co-financing has resulted in municipalities having one kindergarten and co-financing by the Ministry of Education for the resolution of spatial distress in these kindergartens.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u140	Mr. Minister Luksic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Thank you so much for the questions. Dear Members and Members, President! This call, which has been issued this year, is certainly one of the best calls published at this Ministry and also the most transparent, which means that it is also transparent, all the results, Members and anyone. In the first phase, a number of orders were made by municipalities, according to the criteria that were the main criterion, namely the number of children waiting. Therefore, Ljubljana, which had the highest number, could come with all kindergartens to the game. Now we can ask ourselves if this was the best criterion or not the best criteria. If you have the number of children as a criterion and Ljubljana as a whole performing with multiple kindergartens, then it is clear that this is the largest city and is most likely to be the most justified under this criterion. The next thing you're asking is, why 58th to 8th? This is a process of work, which was next. First, they made a classification according to this criterion, then called on the congregations to draw attention to errors. In the case of the congregation of Logatec, which was ranked 58th, there was an unloving error because they had squandered the information from the congregation of Log - Drager and then the congregation of Logatec pointed out that this error had occurred. And of course, because there's other data, then there's this big difference. So the reason for this is this error when they sucked the wrong data into or into the computer system. Then you ask how many complaints there are about this invitation. One appeal was lodged at the Administrative Court in Škofljica From all 103 municipalities, which jointly applied for 148 projects. This also points to a good, quality and transparently run invitation to tender. However, I said about Ljubljana because the number of children rejected brought the largest number of points in this call. Now what you are not asking is, in fact, the biggest problem, not a fellow finance minister, but whether the funds for kindergartens and primary schools will be made available after this call. We are still, when we coordinate or see what the vote will show tomorrow, whether we will continue to make this budget or not, but within this coordination we are still looking for solutions so that these funds, which we have now called, can be allocated to these municipalities, which have acquired a place that would justify drawing these funds. So we have not yet entered into contracts with these congregations nor have we issued a decision, so unfortunately the matter is even more uncertain than possible on the basis of what you have asked here, it seems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u142	Mrs. Jeraeva, would you like an additional answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u143	Thanks for the answer. However, I understand that even in Ljubljana they need kindergartens, I also understand that they need them in Šentjur or in Logatec. However, in the case of Šentjur, for example, they also acquired funds from the Government’s Local Self-Government and Regional Development Service, and you obviously did not take this into account anywhere, unlike other municipalities that did not receive these funds. Now maybe just the criteria, given what I have from your official records. In assessing the first part of the criteria set out in Form 1, the municipality would have almost nowhere or nowhere to reach such a high percentage as to be eligible for co-financing. Same thing on Form 2, evaluation according to criterion number 2. Only the third criterion evaluation, which is one of the important things you consider – the application of an increased standard for the number of children per section per day 31. 12. 2010 Of course, Ljubljana has the largest population, and normally the largest number of children in need of kindergarten, but of course the maximum 20% that can be reached can in fact only be Ljubljana, when it has 17 additional departments and more. Some 14% in this case are Celje, and 17 Maribor, and all the other municipalities are unable to reach that percentage because of the lower number of children and the population in their municipality. But this is if you look in the box, in the end, what has been decided in these cases. That is why I cannot agree with your statement that this has been the most transparent and fairest way. I wonder how this has been done in recent years, whether this is the same way that I have taken into account this third criterion that I have been talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u144	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u145	Thank you. You have to believe me, I didn't do any research on previous calls. However, this call was slightly different, because the method of funding — in the meantime, some laws and procedures — had changed. Now it was no longer possible, so we were warned by the legal services, to make a list of investments by the municipalities, so that they could go through such a system as they did years ago, so that when a call was made and only order was made and then those who met the conditions came into the game. The call was now more demanding, the documentation had to be kept, it was tied to the budget expected, and in this respect the issue was more of a legae artis. What you're saying about transparency. Transparent, as you can see, just one complaint. And that's why I'm sure she'll fall in court, 1 out of 103. Even today it is possible to gain insight, see, many congregations have come to see this and have found that by these criteria the choice is fair. Now if we look at the goal that we're following, it's that as many children as possible who aren't in kindergartens are going to kindergarten. And it's just that, thanks to the policy of the former government, Ljubljana has been abandoned here, but the criteria, and we all know that here in the National Assembly, the number of children rejected, are certainly the main ones. That's what we followed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u146	You want a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u147	I would suggest that we discuss the Minister's response or hold a debate, because also according to the criteria, the proportion of rejected children in Ljubljana does not reach the highest percentage, but many other municipalities.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u148	Thank you. On the proposal by Ambassador Alenka Jeraj to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education and Sport to her question, the State Assembly will decide tomorrow, 20 September, in the framework of the votes. Mr. Mag. Mr Radovan Žerjav will ask the question of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Ivan Svetlik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! This year, a new labour market regulation law has entered into force, extending the range of beneficiaries with the amount of compensation to the unemployed. As a result, the number of recipients of cash benefits has increased dramatically, and the monthly amounts needed have increased. The rights of the unemployed have therefore increased, which does not encourage them too much to seek employment. The Slovenian Employment Service has already paid 187 million euros this year to compensate the unemployed, and in July it has run out of money and will have to move some 110 million euros from the budget by the end of the year. According to the information I have received, the right to receive unemployment compensation for recipients should remain as long as only they conclude a contract of employment and start a new job. I want to know: Is this information real? If the answer is positive, I want to know: How do you justify such an institution's policy in this situation of an unsustainable state budget? I also want to know: Are you currently assessing the policy of unemployment payments as rational and effective?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u150	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Messengers and Members! Mr. Zerjav, your information on the payments is correct. So much has been paid, and so much so, 110 million, we provide with a balance for these payments. This increase is mainly due to the higher number of recipients of cash benefits or to the higher number of unemployed and, in particular, to the higher level of payments, which is due mainly to the fact that they come to the institution of the older person and to the better-paid person, and to a lesser extent to the slightly higher percentage of the remuneration received. This ensures the social security that the unemployed also receive on the basis of unemployment insurance as part of the social security policy. With regard to the indications that recipients of the cash compensation for the case of unemployment also retain this right after the conclusion of the employment contract and the commencement of the work, I must say that, in the event of the conclusion of the full-time employment contract, the person loses the status of the unemployed person and thus the right to a financial compensation which he may benefit from in the event of re-employment until his or her retirement if he or she has not received the job. On the other hand, in the case of a working relationship for part-time work, when this case is considered as so-called partial unemployment and when the unemployed person who thus obtained a short-term job is still entitled to work on this cash compensation. Then the second situation is, in accordance with Article 67 of the Law, when the recipient of the cash refund can retain this right to an undisciplined amount when its additional earnings do not exceed EUR 200 per month. However, this profit can, of course, be obtained only on the basis of civil contracts and not on the basis of a working relationship, it is said that only contractual relations, this is the copyright contract and so on. And, of course, when this profit exceeds EUR 200, its monetary compensation is reduced by an appropriate formula, which says that the basis for the reduction of the remuneration is taken as 50% of this profit above EUR 200. If I say otherwise, the beneficiary of the monetary compensation receiving the money, say, €550 and earned an additional €300, then the cash refund is reduced by €150, says he is not falling €400. If he had earned a thousand euros, then this cash refund would have fallen to 50 euros, it says, below 1,000 euros. This is the law that determines how money is paid. However, this additional income of the unemployed person must be reported to the office and this year there were such persons from 1 January to 31 May, of which I have data, 250, their monthly earnings were on average EUR 868. Here I would just like to add that there is not so much a problem here as a system for the protection of unemployed persons and the payment of monetary compensation, as is the problem of black work, a grey economy where we cannot stand for every unemployed person, we do not have these instruments to determine where this unemployed person is daily and maybe does these works and does not report them. What was the attitude and vote on the law, which we have prepared accordingly to reduce the scope of work in black, we both know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u152	Does he want an additional answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u153	Thank you, Minister, for that precise answer. I was particularly encouraged by this question or why I am asking this question, an example that I am still investigating, and it is about that. The individual simply obtained a six-month unemployment allowance, which, as in life, of course, sometimes changes overnight for the better and even in the same week, when he was granted this unemployment allowance, he got a job for a certain period of time with a good employer. Of course, he reckons that he will also get a job later for an indefinite period of time and as an honest citizen he of course went to the institution to inform that he received a job and that he no longer needs a refund. He was told at the window that if you say "rebellious," you keep that compensation, you do your job, and you'll be six months old, so I don't say double pay, in concoctions. This encouraged me, given that, of course, budget problems are such as, if the practice is in employment institutions all over Slovenia, that this is happening to a greater extent, then we can be very concerned. No one challenges those who, of course, deserve this compensation for the unemployed. However, if, of course, this instrument, which is important, is misused, I will not say that it is abused by those who are employed in the system of granting this compensation, but it is very wrong. I will continue to investigate this case, and if I get relevant information, I think that action will have to be taken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u154	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u155	Thank you very much. So, if that's what you call it, then it's a serious violation of the staff member's employment obligation. If there is information about where and who did this, then we know what our duty is to report and act, and please let us know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u156	Mr Rudolf Petan will ask the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food a question. The Minister is duly absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u157	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Since there is no minister, I would like an oral response at the next meeting. But I have another problem. In February of this year, the Administrative Court handed down a judgment, which I will not read, because there is no time associated with the public call of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition of 19. 2. 2010 but it's the following. The public call is made for the preparation of a specific farm conservation programme, which is the basis for the preparation of a programme for the conservation of farms and rural areas in the mountain and hilly world with limited management opportunities, for the exercise of priority rights in the award of a concession for the exploitation of forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia. What's the problem? The condition for applying for such an invitation to tender is, of course, the status of the farmer. The status of the farmer requires certain conditions and one of these basic conditions is the cadastral income. And this cadastral income for the status of a farmer is determined separately each year, not as it used to be, that you got the status of a farmer and then it just kept going on and on and on. In doing so, this judgment refers to the fact that the cadastral income does not include income from forestry activities. This activity is, however, on high-rise farms in the majority. Sometimes it's 100%. And now what are the consequences? At this invitation I read, it was found that high-rise farms in Pohorje – here I think mainly of Zreško Pohorje – which were some farmers who had been engaged in agriculture for over 100 years, had the status of a farmer, but they found with horror that they had lost this status last year. And now I'm going to give you a concrete example. A farmer who has 50 hectares of his own forest and 10 hectares of landless land cannot run on this tender because he no longer has the status of a farmer. This means that we have legislation that a farmer with a more than 100-year tradition that has 55 hectares, this is a concrete case, and, of course, the income from this forestry activity, which is not counted as a cadastral income, cannot run for the tender for the management of concessions in state forests. Someone with half a hectare of vineyards can get the status of a farmer. And now, theoretically, someone with a thousand acres of forest can't get the status of a farmer, and someone who has one pond or half a hectare of vineyards gets that status. This problem did not arise this year, nor last year, nor in this mandate, nor in the previous one, but it has been going on for several years. However, the call was made during this period, according to last year. And now I ask the Minister: Are the Ministry of Agriculture aware of this problem? How will high-rise farmers, where high-forestry, be placed in an equal position with those not dependent on forestry activities?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr László Göncz will ask the Minister of Finance, Dr Križanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues, colleagues! Otherwise, I am in a specific situation because I wanted to ask the Minister responsible for the economy and the Minister of Finance, but today information has come from Mr Gaspari's office that this question does not fall directly within the competence of the Ministry of Economy and will only be answered by Mr Križanič, Minister of Finance. In short, this is a question of Nafte Lendava, which, in my opinion, is also of strategic importance for the wider geographical space. That is why I believe that, even though I understand Mr Gaspari, who, I will say, is merely temporarily acting as Minister, there is only some objective responsibility of this ministry, despite the fact that the establishment of the Capital Investment Management Agency has brought this matter to the Agency. That is why my questions will be slightly more vilified, but in the beginning I wanted to point out that unfortunately I do not think it is right, because in the past it is also an issue of oil, which has sometimes been raised precisely because of some degree of carelessness and I am not talking about this government, but also in much more far-reaching times. First of all, I ask the Minister of Finance that the Government has supported this capitalisation of Nafta, which is 100% state-owned with €10 million in aid. Nevertheless, we hear the information that without forgiveness will not work. The number of 80-100 employees even appears in solving this issue. This is almost one third or a strong quarter of all employees now. I ask the Minister: Is that true? Although this money has been provided, it has also been ensured that, as far as job conservation is concerned, this money will also be used appropriately for this purpose. I'm going to ask some more questions, I'm going to say, of a special nature, but right now I want the answer to that question in particular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u160	Mr. Minister of the Cross, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Dearly respected, we have examined the question in question and are submitting the following answer: Due to Nafta Petrochem, d.o.o., which is the largest company in the Nafta Lendava Group, the State Capital Investment Management Agency, as the founder and sole shareholder of Nafta Lendava, d.o.o., supported the restructuring plan of Nafta Lendava Petrochem, d.o.o. The company restructuring plan was proposed for a decision on the recapitalisation of the company. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has approved a recapitalisation of €10 million, and in April 2011, the budget provides €6.6 million, a difference of €10 million, which is €3.4 million, and will be approved by the Government in October 2011, as they have opened the budget lines for these purposes following the approved 2011 state budget rebalancing and sufficient funds. This programme is also followed by the rehabilitation of Nafta Petrochem, d.o.o., while other companies do not provide for redundancies, on the contrary, Nafta Machine during this period and also plans to employ more workers for the following year. The number of employees in Nafta Petrochem – and you know this – is about leaving a programme that has not come to life and will not come to life and needs to be restructured – will fall by 41 in 2011, from 171 at the end of 2010 to 130 at the end of 2011, in particular due to the halting of the non-profitable methanol plant. Out of the current 146 employees, 16 received termination of the employment relationship in accordance with the programme for the resolution of redundant workers, employees and their working relationship will end by the end of 2011. Of the remaining 130 employees, 11 employees were issued on 18 August 2011 a decision on temporary work shortage and were sent home. Employees shall be paid 100 % of their salary. In January-September 2011, 25 employees left the company in a different way. The total reduction in the number of employees in 2011 will therefore be 41. According to the company's programme, all over-employees are expected to be paid for the statutory retirement, the total amount of which is estimated at EUR 700,000. On the basis of the information obtained by the State Capital Investment Management Agency, the personnel rehabilitation measures are carried out in accordance with Nafta Petrochem’s restructuring plan, d.o.o. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u162	Would you like an additional answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u163	Thank you very much. These data are, unfortunately, not encouraging. I understood from them what was said a few months ago by the Nafta leadership that financial restructuring would not be possible without forgiveness. I'm afraid this script's already on the palm of my hand. This will, of course, not say the problem of the Mura dimension, but in a certain sense will be an extremely great shock for such a and so previously bad situation in the Lendava area, as well as the wider environment. However, I am interested in the following, although I do not know in terms of competence whether you will be able to answer this question. The Agency has recently pointed out that smaller investments are pointless and should be sold, including oil. I'm asking: Where is the strategic interest of the country or all the inputs made in the past? Finally, I ask the Minister of Finance: Is the country still serious about the Nafta Lendava project, regardless of the current political situation?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u164	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u165	That's a question that goes beyond my purview. For the Nafta Lendava complex, it is clear to me that it is in transition that it has left the Petrol group and that it must find new missions. These are programs that work well, that is, I think, the glue factory and ancillary upgrade services, which also have their own specific market that they found outside the system itself. So, human capital exists, spatial possibilities are, transport possibilities are. Thus, there is a possibility for further development if appropriate investors are acquired. The appropriate signals should be sent. We have institutions like JAPTI that can send such signals to space, and we are also looking for an investor for this specific production. Since the regulation was not adopted in Parliament, now Nafta Lendava is not included in these sales projects. If we find a strategic partner, we will ask the High Council to open up the possibility of a dispersion of ownership and the arrival of someone who will bring in new programs. Because the problem is actually how to bring in programmes that will be profitable and will provide adequate jobs, not just as much as they were, even more.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u166	Mr. Mag. Stefan Tisell will ask the Minister of Health a question. The Minister is duly absent. Would you like a written or oral answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u167	Mr Vice-President, distinguished ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! Today I will ask an oral question to Mr Dorian Marusic, Minister of Health, concerning supplementary health insurance, and I will ask for an oral answer at the next meeting. Health care is a constitutional right for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Health insurance is intended to enable insured persons to exercise their rights to diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation. Compulsory health insurance is carried out by the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia. In 2010, he raised EUR 2.3 billion. These funds no longer fully cover the needs, as last year the institution had losses of 35 million. The supplementary health insurance, which was introduced in Slovenia more than 15 years ago, accounts for approximately 18% of compulsory health insurance or compulsory health insurance. Complementary health insurance is some kind of voluntary compulsory insurance that covers the difference in the extent to which health insurance rights are granted. This is the same or similar amount for all participants and there are 3 insurance companies that collect this while the compulsory health insurance for the solidarity note is paid as a percentage of the salary. The European Commission has imposed or reminds Slovenia of irregularities in relation to this supplementary health insurance. The Adriatic Slovenia Bulletin, an insurance company which is one of the providers of this supplementary health insurance, states that the European Commission offers the Republic of Slovenia the possibility to remove or present the underlying reasons for these differences. However, this has not been a decisive step since no specific legislative proposal or position has been communicated to the European Commission. The Commission is therefore continuing the infringement procedure by bringing an action before the Court of Justice of the European Community in Luxembourg. I ask the Minister of Health: What activities are taking place with regard to the amendment of supplementary or supplementary health insurance? What measures do you intend to take with regard to the change in supplementary health insurance, in particular from the point of view of the acquis of the European Union and from the point of view of ensuring basic rights from the health basket?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u168	Thank you. Mr Silven Majhenič will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister, the letter I received and not just yesterday was written and probably sent to the Ministry. However, according to the information I have, it has also been sent to the Chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy. I believe that it is impossible to act immediately when you get the information, so I hope that now that some time has passed, it is the right time to answer the question of what has been done in the light of the irregularities identified by the employees of the Coper Penitentiary. The findings relate in particular to the non-professional and irresponsible work of the Director of the UICS, Mr Valentinčič, and the Director of the Institute in Koper, who, despite the warnings of the professional services in the institution, acted voluntarily and made false statements about the convicted person who received her unjustifiable benefits and was also released conditionally. He was a very troubled person and committed a fatal crime during his parole. The complainant further points to the recruitment of non-professional people to responsible jobs by Mr Valentinčič. There is a lot of talk about the treatment of the sentence and the benefits of persons who go up to the very top of Slovenian organised crime, by Mr Valentinčič. Among them are those who organized an attack on a guard in Ljubljana’s prisons and were later paroled. Such cases have been written down quite a few things and the Minister should also be interested in the credibility of the data. The story is incredible, and if everything is true, we need to act now. Years ago, 9 people were employed by the IUKS, given the higher number of prisoners. There are 38 of them today. Would it not indicate a reduction in the number, for it has been doing quite a few things that should have been in retirement for at least a few years? Mr. Minister, I ask: Have you taken action on this? And if you haven't: What will you do about the responsibilities of the leaders mentioned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u170	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honour, you probably have anonymous writing in mind, and you have not said exactly what you have in mind right now. These anonymous writings, which come all the time from the same prison prison, have been quite something in recent years. I'm going to try and answer you to something that's come up. First, we react to any anonymous writing, if it comes to my address or to the address of our ministry, by first collecting data, reports, then taking certain measures, if it is the responsibility of the Ministry, the legal part of the Ministry. It should be known that the Administration for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions is a body composed of independent powers, which it has in relation to the directors of the institutions for the cessation of prison sentences and has in practice exercised them. I guess that's where the problem is. Because the Director-General, Mr Valentinčič, has recently given a number of strong disciplinary measures to the very employees in the institution from which anonymous writings come. There were 5 such cases where a written warning measure was given prior to the termination of the employment relationship. In one case, however, even for criminal charges for the crime of abuse of the position currently being dealt with by the prosecution. And here is probably the power to seek now the reasons for certain discontent, which is then manifested in anonymous writings. So far, however, it has been shown in all these cases that it is clearly unfounded and malicious tampering that goes at the expense of some leaders, either in the institution itself or in the general administration. Each case has been reviewed separately, reports have been requested, in some cases also based on these anonymous writings, some sharper measures have been taken, including in relation to employees, such as at the level of heads of departments that make certain decisions. It is not true, however, that it is intended to be an recruitment process beyond the established procedures, as special competition commissions are always involved in these procedures, that it is never decided by one individual, but that it is a multi-stage decision in all cases, of course only within the limits laid down by the internal systemisation acts and the law when it lays down certain conditions. Therefore, with regard to such allegations of inadequate employment, I can only say, after the assurance of the General Administration, that these allegations are unfounded. When it comes to the benefit of the convicts. The conveniences of convicts are implemented in practice, so provided for by law. Any suspension of a prison sentence must be carried out in such a way as to minimise the restrictions on the rights that an individual has under the Constitution and under our laws. And if, for example, only last year, 379 such benefits have been made available in the institution, and only in one case has it been shown that the convict of these 379 cases has misused this benefit, then this can only be a confirmation of the correct approach of the leaders in the institutions regarding the granting of such benefits. On the other hand, it is not possible to overlook the fact that a special decision-making body has a special weight for conditional leave, which it assesses on a case-by-case basis. However, it is judged on the basis of a number of reports it receives, including from the prison where the convicted person is serving a sentence. In one instance, I think that you mentioned it too, it turned out that this report, which was prepared for the decision of the parole commission, was inappropriate in the sense that it was not sufficient. And the Director-General, who you are criticising in your parliamentary question, was the one who, in this case, gave a disciplinary action on this method of reporting, which, of course, followed in the relevant decision of the Commission on conditional leave. In short, if I withdraw, such flat-rate claims, which are repeatedly based on completely distorted data or even completely false data, can be rejected. This does not mean, however, that the system is ideal and that it does not need to be re-examined every time to verify the validity or unwarrantedness of the readings.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u172	Thank you. Mr Peter Verlič will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Dr Roku Žarnić and the Minister of Transport Dr Vlačić.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister of Environment and Space and Minister of Transport! The question is very short, but I think it is very topical, even now, when the autumn began, when the school began and every morning in the morning and afternoon we listen to radio stations, that it is crowded from Škopljica to Ljubljana on this old road, the only road leading from Škofljica to the center of the city. The problem is acute because, in fact, it concerns not only the inhabitants of Škofljica, but even the region – Kočevsko, Ribnica, Grospeljska, in short, a pressing problem, which also has its own solutions. The long-term solution is the bypass across the Bar, which has been, I will say, reached with the favor of both ministries, but it will probably be a while before realisation. Public transport problems have been addressed by the municipalities. With the cooperation of the Roads Directorate, both city lines 3G and 3B from Grosupljeg and Škofljica to Ljubljana also drive, but this does not help if they have to be bussed and move along with other cars. Therefore, I ask the distinguished minister: Do you think that, however, until the Škofljica bypass is placed in the space and when the construction begins, this existing road will be arranged in a four - lane? In fact, let me just say that it kind of looks strange, because the road from Rudnik to Škofljica is virtually the same width as then Dolenjka, the valley road from Rudnik to the center of the city, which is the municipality, is a city road and is a four-passenger. I think that this measure would greatly increase the flow and probably not be that expensive, but would greatly increase the flow of traffic at that time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u174	Mr. Minister, Dr. Jarnić.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. All Members and Members of Parliament, my fellow Members! I can say that this question is kind of a nice question to me, because it is very much in the direction of those efforts that we have been working together recently to make this traffic jam and problems as well as possible. We know that they are complicated with the Baryan Road due to cultural heritage, nature protection, agriculture, flood protection. Therefore, the preparation of this VAT will continue and will continue for some time. Today we need to sort out traffic and relax. The first contribution to this is the adoption of the State Spatial Plan for the whole of the motorway connection. This is happening now, it's in design and it's about to be implemented. As far as we know, the Ig-Ljubljana road is also open, which will also partially relieve traffic. However, I think that this is your question and the initiative is extremely logical and in the direction that I, not as a minister, but as a citizen or a builder, am thinking the same thing. I think this road, and my colleague Vlačič will tell you how wrong I am, is at least from our point of view, environmental protection, accommodation in space, ideal to extend to four belts, not to three, the third belt can sometimes be a trap, to four belts. And if we drive there and look at the map a little bit, I can't imagine that I don't know what kind of intervention there is or what kind of demolitions there is. I also imagine that this would be a rational solution, perhaps some kind of reconstruction of the road. I hope that one day we'll have a decision like that. I'd like to ask Minister Vlacic to complete it now.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u176	Mr. Minister Dr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Previous studies and inspections to prepare the draft for the railway undertaking have already assessed what this extension would mean at the grave level. From an environmental point of view, perhaps from a purely logical point of view, this seems to be a good solution, but we have prepared an alternative. Actually, I've already talked about this before, for a short time, and now I'm going to say a few words. In fact, the reason lies in the road connection between Škofljica and Lavrica, where, due to the expansion of the corridor, some buildings should be demolished, and in particular because of the arrangement, which is a major problem, the roads should have a large network of back accessible roads if they wanted the four lanes to function well. It's about land raids and demolitions. That's possible. But we have one alternative, and we'll introduce it to you. Together with the Transport Technical Institute of the Faculty of Construction and Geodesy of the University of Ljubljana, a project of variable traffic management on the Rudnik–Skofljica route was prepared, following system 2 + 1. The system works by installing variable traffic signalling equipment moving on the basis of the final traffic flow. The entire system is connected to the national traffic management centre in Dragomlje and from there it is necessary to ensure traffic management also on the southern Ljubljana bond, at the section of the Dolenjska road – Šmarje - Sap, the section of Malence in the direction of Primorska and Štajerska. We will present this project at the Municipality of Škofljica. We are expected to invite other congregations there in the second half of October 2011. The presentation will therefore be attended by those who have technologically prepared solutions. I already told you in one interview what this was all about. In fact, the problem is not only that you make two currents in one direction, the problem is mainly those houses that want to go in the opposite direction when the two lanes are also traffic-oriented in only one direction. There is this special solution of the left-hand bender on the right-hand side. These technological solutions will be presented to you. I think it's one pretty revolutionary thing for Slovenia, but I think it's a very good solution. I wouldn't have claimed land intervention, I wouldn't have demanded destruction of buildings, and I would have brought exactly what we wanted. If the traffic were to go one way, it would work one way if it went the other way, it would work the other way. We know these cases, like from Washington, when part of the day's road is one-way to one, and in a certain period of the day it's the other way.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Of course, such solutions, which mean novelty, are possible. However, from experience I am somehow afraid that such novelties, if I understand correctly, will require considerable traffic management, equipment and probably also a question of price and cost. Nevertheless, I would be here because I have the possibility of complementing this issue, once again, if I understood the Minister of Environment and Space, he is kind of in favour of this solution, while the Ministry of Transport thinks that it would be better if we had a tripod, if I understand correctly, with some traffic signs, with a light signal that would mean some kind of escape. And somehow I can't deal with it either, because if we look at the Dolenjska road, which has a lot of imports from Rudnik to the center of the city, side roads, you can see, the whole range is up to the Rakkovnik and so on. There is no other profile than Rudnik v Škofljica. In short, I'm asking again: Would it be possible at least to evaluate, at least to see what the price would be? I'm afraid that this solution is, otherwise it sounds very good technically, but I'm just afraid that it's expensive and the question of what the users who don't know will do is, what if there's an electric eclipse, how we'll act after all the traffic lights go out. Nevertheless, I appeal that a four-passenger may be examined, but if not, at least what is very simple is a yellow bus belt.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u180	Mr. Minister Dr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u181	I'm open to all suggestions and I really invite you to look at what they've made together. You'll devalue yourself. From what I've seen, I must say, I was thrilled. From the point of view of traffic, however, you are well aware of the matter, because you are from this area, you know that a certain part of the flow towards Igu, a certain part goes towards Škofljica, a certain part can be poured onto Šmarje - Sap, we know the matter with a possible previous roadway ahead of the circle across those arches and up towards Šmaru - Sap to avoid the stopper that arises due to the intersection and the crossing of the railway line. If this is fully settled, it's not as expensive as it looks, and it's not as complicated as it looks, because it also coincides with the fact that we're doing a national traffic management centre anyway. It's supposed to work in Drager. The National Centre for Traffic Management was presented to me a few days ago in the form of an action plan, because in the Republic of Slovenia we must finally start working not only on building infrastructure, but on transport management. So this is actually possible even one of those real pilots, how to regulate things, because this road is one of the more difficult, one of the more concentrated, in terms of a really large volume of traffic. I invite you, when this presentation is over, come, I'm open. If this does not convince the players, we can think about the posts, about what you said, but look, these solutions have been very good in countries that have done so, which have taken traffic steps ahead of Slovenia. Then we'll talk if it doesn't convince you, maybe even about the placement for all four belts.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u182	Mr Darko Menich will ask the Minister of Environment and Space and the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, who is rightly absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u183	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, what a lovely greeting! The question of the non-responsibility of the space regulators in the preparation of municipal spatial plans. The vast majority of municipalities, 211, after several years of work under the Law on Spatial Planning, have still not adopted a municipal spatial plan. In all cases there are delays due to the space regulators who do not respect the statutory 30-day deadline for issuing their guidelines and opinions. In doing so, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food is the most important step forward, and the Ministry of Environment and Space is doing nothing about it. I ask both ministers: What urgent measures will accelerate the response of space regulators to the preparation of municipal spatial plans and when? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u184	Mr. Minister, Dr. Jarnić, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I think that, even if there is no Minister for Agriculture, I will be able to answer at least part of his question. But if that's what it takes, it's probably another time. So far, according to the PP plan, it has prepared its spatial acts of 33 municipalities. There are 109 congregations in the draft phase. In the phase of the proposal, this means that they are in the final stage, there are 30 municipalities. Thus, only 39 municipalities have not yet started the process of preparing the OP plan. Delays in the preparation of spatial acts occur for several reasons. A very large reason is the lack of preparation of insufficiently well-founded materials provided by the municipalities to regulators of the space for obtaining guidelines and opinions in accordance with the law. Here I would like to say from my experience this year and a half that many times the problem is also the choice of the cheapest bidder who is not necessarily in line with this task. In the case of the DN, where the UNO chose good performers, much of this was done here. There is a lot of unreasonable insistence on some initiatives to change the intended use, which do not have any legal basis, but behind them are the ambitious development interests of individual local influences. In any case, it is also the fault of the restrictive legislation that can be complicated, exacerbated because it follows the implementation of the acquis of the European Union. However, not only will I point to others, as you yourself have said, but those who — somewhat due to their staffing constraints, but also somewhat due to their unprepared floors — are late. I don't know if there's always an agricultural ministry here to take a bit into the defense of a colleague, sometimes there's a cultural heritage here, sometimes there's something third, including water permits, flood maps, it's said, there's a number of these things, and a lot of times there's an accident, and there's an accident that's going on in one municipal plan, and then there's a special problem. In many cases, individual resources are sometimes underactive and, therefore, the ILO has already proposed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in 2009 that decisions be taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in order to entrust all agents of the regulation of the territory of national importance to cooperate with the municipalities at all stages of the preparation of the draft UNSC, by providing them with up-to-date data from its working areas, to give them expert recommendations on the preparation of the professional basis or to explain the spatial arrangements relating to a part of the area of the individual operator of the space regulation, to issue guidelines within a specified 30-day period of time, as you stress, and in the content defined in the CAP plan that the tasks of participation in the preparation of the UN are being carried out as a priority, meaning that they organise work in ministries or competent authorities in such a way that the statutory deadlines will be respected. The government also commissioned all these carriers to give as much as possible an up-to-date task as possible. It's another thing. It will be able to happen when the carriers receive incomplete, poorly prepared assignments, return them very quickly, and then they will respect 30 days of time, and then the matter is whether they get better preparers or, as I said, they reduce some appetites a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u186	Do you want to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u187	Thank you very much for the comprehensive agreement, Mr Minister. I would ask that the Minister of Agriculture at the next meeting give me an answer. But I'd have another supplement. On 5 May 2009, we received the first guidelines from the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, on the basis of the draft OPN, which we sent to the Ministry of Environment and Space in December 2008. After a coordination meeting, which was organised by the municipality of Šostanj at the Agricultural Ministry with difficulty, we prepared additional studies and opinions of the Agricultural Advisory Service, and on this basis, after almost ten months, at the end of March 2011, we also received the first update of their guidelines. After a thorough review, we found that the second time the guidelines prepared were not complete after almost two and a half years. In addition, new spatial problems have been emerging throughout this period, which will also need to be addressed through the UNO. We have therefore sent a third role to the Agriculture Ministry in June this year, but of course we have not yet received the guidelines. Citizens are pressing on us, they want answers to their initiatives, but we have no concrete answers. The Ministry's responsible services sometimes don't pick up phones. We sincerely ask both ministers to take effective action in relation to several years of ongoing requests for guidance to the UN. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u188	Mr Ivan Grill will ask the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food a question. The Minister is duly absent. Do you want to ask a question anyway?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u189	That's right, Your Honor. I would like to ask that at the next meeting, the Minister, Mr Židan, provide an oral reply. My question concerns a number of open infections of milk in Slovenian milk. During the last weeks and months, in public information, it is often observed that milk controls or checks on milk’s resistance prove that milk is often objectionable or contains bacteria that can harm health. In particular, some cautioned that such milk could be particularly harmful to pregnant women. Given that this is now a very common form of sale of fresh milk in Slovenia, directly from the farm, which users have also gladly started to use, this would be in favour of both farmers and users, it would make sense and it would be necessary for the country or the Ministry of Agriculture to do its part here with its services. It is appropriate to ensure smooth inspection of the reliability or integrity of milk and milk. I therefore ask the Minister: How many samples were taken from milkmats across Slovenia? How many of these samples were incontrovertible? The most important thing to me is that he introduces us: In what way will they take a systematic approach to control what milk is sold in these milkmats without distraction and on a regular basis? This would mean that farmers would be able to sell milk in this way without concern and, on the other hand, that users themselves would be as calm as they would buy milk from milk. I thank him very much for his answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u190	Mr Franz Pukšič will ask the question of the Member of the Council, Dr Igor Lukšić, who is the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to the ministers! Colleagues and colleagues, Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, in my deep conviction, regional development is exactly the same, which will lead to the development and success of Slovenia in the future. We should always be aware of this, regardless of the fact that we do not have regional divisions. This also applies to the area of higher education, which means that certain regions cannot be left behind compared to some others. Unfortunately, however, we are faced with cases of large differences in the allocation of funds for various higher education programmes. Of course, you have not been responsible for this in these three years, but you are, by force, also in this moment, instead of the Minister for Higher Education, what his position was on regional development and higher education after Eastern and Western work, but it is clear anyway. In fact, there was no other place for him, including from development centres such as Ljubljana, Ljubljana and once again Ljubljana. However, this is why I give you some very specific information, as an example, that in the western part of Slovenia we have four higher education institutions, so in Ljubljana, Jesenica, health institutions of higher education, to understand Ljubljana, Jesenice, Novo Mesto, Izola, with a dislocated unit in Nova Gorica, which, all four of them, is funded by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia from the budget with the concession of the Ministry of Higher Education. So on this page four and on the other side of Slovenia we have four health schools: Maribor, Celje, Murska Sobota and Slovenj Gradec. Of this, only one is financed, i.e. 25%, with a ratio of 1:4, which, of course, covers the other part of Slovenia. This government does not finance through concessions. Thus, health programmes are financed by the State at university centres, in particular in western Slovenia, where there is, of course, an excess of staff, but not in regions where such staff is lacking. After all, we have quite a bit of this frame, and lately, more and more in health tourism as well. Well, this only goes from the budget to 12% of the funding for the part where 66% of this staff is educated. Then explain if you can!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u193	Thank you. Thank you for the question, Mr Member. Dear Members, Vice President! This should be based on the situation as historically developed in Slovenia. First we had the University of Ljubljana, then the University of Maribor, then the University of Primorska and then the University of Nova Gorica. Three of these, according to Ljubljana, Maribor and Primorska, have universities or higher education for health sciences or health care. Then there were 4 private ones, or 5 in Celje, New Town, in Jesenica, Slovenj Gradc and Maribor. Why the New Town and Jesenica High School of Health received concessions and enrolled regular students and why not some other school, is probably known by those in the previous term. To finance studies at the university in Lanzam way, we know that too. So, they have a Maribor coastal and Ljubljana University, we're looking at regional, three major regions. As far as even distribution is concerned, we can see in these places, which I have listed and which the Member has also stated that the study is possible around all parts of Slovenia. But that's part of the story. The second part of the story is the question of the quality of this study. It is not enough that there are only needs, although, as we can see, the distribution across Slovenia is so proportional that it can also be followed by these needs, but also quality, the real health study is usually linked to hospitals, to hospitals that can overcome so much staff that it can also provide professional training, i.e. practice. And these are the criteria that can, in fact, be filled in somehow by setting up a network of health schools and health schools, in fact, following this network that is built within health care. Here higher education has no complete autonomy, but it is linked to a network of key hospitals to which key experts are linked. Teachers who teach at these schools are then recruited from here. That's my answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u194	Mr. Pukšič, would you like to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u195	Thank you very much. I was expecting, I'd say, a worse answer if you graded by school. Given that I have already said at the outset that I do not expect much of this answer from you, however, Mr Minister, the answer in the sense that in one part of Slovenia 100 % of all four schools are financed, for one third of the students, and on the other hand only 12.5 % of this money is spent on these concessions and the financing of these programmes will, of course, be difficult to hold up with an answer in the field if, on the other hand, they do not have quality. The allocation is appropriate, that is to say consistent with regional development, but is not of quality. There are probably criteria that measure this, etc., so that, of course, it doesn't work. In fact, it is important to say that, both at the public level and in the economy, and of course everyone else also notes that education centres in the regions mean a lot in the educational field and also clearly in the cultural field, if you want, the social, economic, which I have already talked about in relation to medical infrastructure, etc. So once again, I ask you: Will you do anything to evenly distribute this money?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u196	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u197	Thank you. Here was the adoption of the National Higher Education Programme, which you know because it was accepted by the National Assembly and there is an emphasis on the quality that the National Quality Agency in higher education should provide. This is one of the key issues. The second is what I said, the question of hospitals and professional staff. You know that the Minister of Health here is primarily concerned with where it is good to have a hospital that will be good, quality and will have enough patients. You know that in the field of transport Slovenia has become faster, more flowful and many other considerations arise from this title. Here it is also important that it is wet for all students to enroll in any college or college. We have a network of student homes, a system of scholarships, and it is not necessary for children to study only in their place of birth and residence. I think that in Slovenian this is too strong a belief that everyone needs to bring a college home, at the door. We should think differently – how to convince our children to take the whole world as an opportunity for their own lives, not how the university, we now have a question of health schools, how to bring health schools to every door. Let's just say the People's Party is addressing the Prime Minister of the Government with a constant question about saving, and now you're asking why we don't put money into health and education anymore. These two things just don't go together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksic, please make a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u199	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that we hold a debate just to clear this up, to propose to each other, this is not going together. We do not propose different things, we ask, Minister – nothing else if we can ask in the National Assembly, but this belongs to us, at least something – why the distribution is what it is, on the one hand, 100 % 4 schools, on the other hand 25% to 1 school, we ask about it. And I agree with you that you can't bring everyone home to college. It is true, however, that if we bring our children from these "lost" Slovenian, Halo places, premurski and so on into this white, light Ljubljana, they have to pay the bus ticket differently than those students who live in Ljubljana, because Mr Jankovic has double prices here and so on and so on. What have you done in these three years, the government, to ensure the possibility of a normal home for students and students? And what does all this have to do with anything? A million of those parts that fell apart and went bankrupt at that time. Of course, this has huge consequences, but I didn't ask that question, I asked very clearly and loudly, why on the one hand for a minority study, there is so much money, and on the other hand, of course, there is no way to do that. Clearly, I have also talked about economic aspects that are important. In the medical, tourist industry there is this, thank God, more and more and here they are employed. Of course, the demographic aspect from the perspective of equitable regional development is still important here. And well, a constitutional aspect of course, a clear objective and fair distribution of state money and so on. In short, I propose that we discuss this in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u200	Thank you very much. From your debate, Mr Puksic, I understand that you are asking for a re-debate on the Minister's response, a decision on whether the National Assembly will hold this debate, we will take place tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mr Milan Čadež will ask the Minister of Transport, Dr Patrick Vlačič. Mr. Milan Chaddez, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u201	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting on my behalf, fellow Members, Members of Parliament and Ministers! For the last time, Mr. Minister, I asked you a question about the use of permits on highway sections. You told me that these sections don't have usable permits. It's eight sections. However, in the answer, you are mainly referring to the issue of subcontractors who do not provide the requested documentation in order to protect their legitimate interests, which is the basis for the issue of a usable authorisation. Dars has been ignoring subcontractors for two years, despite the fact that the liabilities to subcontractors have not been settled. Now I want to know: When will these sections finally obtain the applicable permits? What has the Government of the Republic of Slovenia done to resolve the issue of subcontractors and their legitimate interests? Then I also want to know: Why are these people who have built state highways still not paid, although they have informed Dars and thus you as owner or representative of the owner not to receive payments for the work done, which has been fully recognised by the supervisory company DDC? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u202	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by Mr. Minister of Transport Dr. Patrick Vlačič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u203	Thank you very much. We have already replied to you in this document at that time that we cannot precisely define the date on which all the permits are obtained for a number of reasons. One of these is that it is the Dars-MOP relationship as an administrative body, not our ministry. It should be known that this is not only about unpaid obligations and the retention of materials by subcontractors or documentation by subcontractors, but also about unresolved ownership issues. How hard this issue is, it shows that there are also certain sections that have been without documents during the four-year period of your government and are still without documents today. Because it is a hard problem, obviously, that cannot be solved so easily. However, we will also resolve this issue with a change of rules, where it is simply not possible to obtain documentation because of unresolved ownership relations. As far as subcontractors are concerned. Government material, in response to that last call, was placed in the procedure. But let me just answer you from the point of view of what I have already said several times, the position of someone responsible for the national highway construction programme. I think, of course, when someone does a job, they have to get paid for it. So far, it's a very simple thing. From here on out, things aren't that simple anymore. Some legal questions have proved impossible to answer. Various legal experts give different answers. And if I want to, I mean, I don't want the trip to hell to be pressed with good intentions, in spite of the desire to settle something, then they can cause the state or the citizens indirect damage, because Darsa's debt guarantees are still being carried by the state and would leave the budget if everything didn't go as it should. If I tell you plastic, say, I'll only show you one of the subcontractor's problems. One of the problems is how much of the amounts to be used for, because the guarantee is given to pay subcontractors and partly to remedy real errors, who should determine the ratio, how much should be maintained for bad errors and how much should be paid to subcontractors, or what should be determined arbitrarily. That's one thing. The other thing is that cashing out a guarantee, even from my own experience, is an abstract legal transaction that you do immediately, no problem. But when you pay out the claim guarantee, it becomes a causative legal transaction, which must have a clear legal basis. In order to have a clear legal basis, you must have information on this: Was there a financial flow between the main operators and subcontractors, any compensation service, whether the work was done or whether the situations were confirmed, etc. So things aren't as simple as they look. Now I've only mentioned two things to you, and there are more questions. Then another specific question: whether the subcontractor who provided certain services delivered, for example, food for the workers of one operator, whether it is a subcontractor on the national highway programme or not. So these are questions that are hard to answer. Basically, if we were to be simple in this matter, we could pour pure wine very quickly. That's why I presented this proposal to the government, presented it to the subcontractors, presented it to Darsa. And both the government and Dars and the subcontractors were well received. Therefore, the proposal to resolve the matter with arbitration, to take on a few such cases that take on all legal problems, all legal problems, interpretational problems, all subcontractors and resolve everything after this hoof. This can be resolved very quickly. It's been a matter of months. There is no complaint, anyone who thinks his case is such that he wins, because he thinks he's right, has the opportunity to decide on an arbitral trial. I have also spoken with subcontractors, they accept the proposal, but I have not yet received concrete proposals, which subcontractors are prepared to subject themselves to arbitration. This will be a quick solution and I think it is a good solution, because then it will be easy with some legal clarity to answer what some legal dilemmas are. If one legal expert feels that way, one way is for someone to resolve it. Only court and arbitration can be resolved. The difference is that arbitration is very quick and enforceable in court.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mr. Milan Čadež, would you like to complete your answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u205	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. I was kind of stabbed when you said in your response that you had taken over the problems since the time of our government. However, as I know, you have been ruling for three years, and you have also taken over the leadership of the state under the motto that the country is better able to lead, and you would expect these problems to be resolved. However, as far as subcontractors are concerned, I am most in pain as a Member that many businesses have been shut down because of this, and even more so is the fact that a large number of unemployed are the result of this. As you state, it is possible to resolve a lot of things with arbitration, but we know that it is necessary for both sides to do so and that there is a mutual consensus. It is also important that these subcontractors eventually receive very, very well-deserved money, because, as I have already mentioned, I am concerned about the closure of companies that have worked on this project and, of course, the unemployed. There's one more thing I'd like to point out that I'm also worried about. What about the cohesion funds obtained for this project and if no usable permits are obtained, how are these funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Complementary response, Dr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u207	First from the back. The government's response will also be an answer regarding cohesion funds. I'm sure this thing will work itself out. From the Government's point of view, accounts were issued from the Government's point of view. The bills were paid. As regards cohesion funds, there must in principle be no problem. However, it is true that road permits are not yet available, and this part needs to be resolved. That's Dars' problem. Dars has to prove it. We then have a compensation claim to Darsa, which is not the wisest, because he is still the one for whom we have guarantees for his debts. Let me just say it's time for the end of 2015. I'm sure this will resolve if the matter of arbitration, as I said before, is a matter of months. Now, why arbitration? If anyone thinks he's right, if he thinks he's right, then there's no problem in going to arbitration. I also told the subcontractors, so I hope to make this public because they say they have been cheated, they say they have the right to pay. I agree that things need to be settled. Just look, with these differences that are occurring, it's also right for someone to decide. To make a quick decision about this, he showed me my conversation with those who are actors in the arbitration. And get rid of it very quickly. On the proposal of subcontractors and Darsa, I have already sent a letter, a while ago, in which I am giving them some of my proposals, and I am waiting only for those cases that are willing to subject themselves to arbitration. As soon as they're available, it'll start. So look, I'm saying it again. Some questions are such that it is difficult to answer them as a lawyer. As I mentioned earlier. Is someone who delivered food, say, to one contractor, or is he a subcontractor within the meaning of a national programme or not? I can't shake your hand to answer that question. But I think arbitration should be able to answer that question. This will then be an example for all similar cases, for those who have provided similar services that are not directly related to, say, excavation works or what is physical work on the national highway programme. So it's not that simple. But before that, I didn't want to suggest that you didn't solve it and that we'd get rid of it. It was only that some cases were so hard that you failed to resolve them during your government and even during the time of our government. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mr. Chaddez, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u209	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you for your answers, too, Mr Minister, but given the answer, I believe that the issue is quite extensive, that our motorways do not have usable permits, that subcontractors are not paid. As I can see, this is a problem as a whole, so I also propose that the vote be carried out and that, if possible, public debate in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Mr Čadež, your proposal to hold a debate on the Minister's response in the National Assembly will be decided by the assembly tomorrow on 20 September in the course of the vote. We are moving on to the question of Mr Miran Györek. The question will be asked by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Mag. Samuel Zbogar and Minister of Environment and Space Dr. Rok Žarnić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the SDS! We're all alone. As you are probably aware, strange activities have been taking place on the lands of Slovenian citizens on the left bank of the Mura River for several months now. Slovenian landowners on the Croatian cadastra have discovered how Croatia, in practice quietly, unilaterally asserts its national sovereignty in the territory which, following the condition of 25 June 1991, belongs to our country, by owning, without the knowledge and consent of the Slovenian owners, part of the agricultural land in the border disputed area of Hotiz and simply transliterating it at the cadastral office to own its authorities or changing the destination of the Slovenian owners' lands. The damaged landowners are indignant as to how it is possible to be a foreign country, I can say that a third country can unilaterally acquire Slovenian property or the literal place of land owned by citizens of a Member State of the European Union took place in the middle of Europe. Even if it is activities related to the reconstruction of the high defence embankment along the Mura River in the disputed area, it is a joint project between Slovenia and Croatia. I want to know: Who in Slovenia allowed the Croatian authorities in the disputed area to carry out all field measurements and re-organize the cadastral and land books without even telling the owners what this was about and paying fair compensation for the land they took? The Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development, at the time of the control of the Greeks in the area, requested farmers to harmonise the agricultural areas in a consistent manner with the actual condition of the cadastra produced by a foreign country. This clearly points to the fact that everything has been agreed on before. Which of the Slovenian authorities participated in negotiating the joint reconstruction of the embankment and by what key was the construction financed? Finally, there are open questions here too. Who's going to pay fair compensation for the plots that built the road on the embankment? I ask both ministers, because the matter is two-layered, it is in some ways an environmental issue and in other ways a political one. Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u212	Mr. Minister Zbogar, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Thank you so much for asking. I'll try to answer it myself first. I think I can say with certainty that no Slovenian authority has spoken or negotiated with Croatia about these territories. On the contrary, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was alleged to be a nationalization of land at Hotiz in the area between the embankment, as you said, and was initially informed by the media during the Mura River. Subsequently, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs also received a letter from a group of allegedly injured Slovenian citizens. The letter was not accompanied by any documentation from which the trace of specific actions in ownership and the destination of the parcels in question on those sites could be better understood. Nor was it possible to determine when and on the basis of the legal acts involved. So today, too, we are not familiar with this documentation, without which it is not possible to give an appropriate opinion on a particular case. Otherwise, on the basis of the information available on the location of the land, we find that the said lands lie in the cadastral municipality of Sveti Martin in Mura, where the cadastral border was never disputed. In fact, on the left bank of Mure, on 25.6., as you said, I think the Republic of Slovenia was exercising its own authority, which did not lead to this area and does not now run the Earth cadastre or the Earth Book. And if I were to quote now the opinion of the Constitutional Court, which was submitted at the time of the request for constitutionality of the arbitration agreement, it is only 18. 3. 2010 stated that 'until a different agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia, their national border on land takes place where the border between the Republics was under way under the former SFRJ, 'on the borders of municipalities or cadastral municipalities, as existed on the day of the establishment of the new countries. With independence, the internal land border between the Republics has become an external state border, which, according to the rule of territorial status quo, can only be amended by agreement." This was a quote from the opinion of the Constitutional Court. In our view, it is not possible to react properly at this time. We regret that the Slovenian injured parties did not inform us of these discharges in due time when it would still be possible to react in the appeal proceedings or within the deadlines. However, the final solution to the border issue will be possible only after the border between Slovenia and Croatia has been established on land, which will also be one of the tasks of the arbitral tribunal in accordance with the provisions of the arbitration agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Minister Roko Žarnic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u215	Thank you very much. I don't know if there's anything I can do to help. Maybe just an explanation. We join this explanation, and it may also be that the requirements for decommissioning in Slovenia are in the domain of the municipality in the administrative procedure of the first stage. Only the second step is where our ministry comes in. But in this case, this whole thing is happening on the Croatian side. It is said that the injured party should demand this second-degree decision on the Croatian side, because we have not received any information about this. No one's ever turned to us about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Mr. Györek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u217	Yeah, it's really interesting. I do not know how our foreign ministry does not have detailed environmental documentation, but this comes to us as Members, as well as to the Ombudsman, who has been informed of this; otherwise, she did not give an answer, she did not think it was important enough, it seems. However, at the Croatian office, it is explained to the affected inhabitants that the change was made because Croats carried out the route of the road after two parcels and owners were paid by the Croatian State to change the destination of the land. It is a matter of ordinary lies, since no one has even informed the owners of the change, let alone to get paid compensation. And then how can I complain? The owners bitterly ask when the surfaces of their parcels on the south side of the embankment will be taken back and swept back into their possession and possession. Who and when will determine the actual scope of all stolen and unilaterally smuggled parcels owned by the authorities of the neighbouring country? Croats, certainly not. And what will the state authorities of the Republic of Slovenia do to protect the rights of Slovenian citizens, farmers, owners of agricultural land and forests in the disputed area? I ask the Ministry of the Interior and the Environment: What will you do if you have already done something to establish an initial state? I want to know: Did Croatia inform you about these illegal acts, or did the Republic of Slovenia bow down again to the territorial interests of Croatia and the arrogance of the Croatian authorities? Has the president of the Croatian government ever mentioned to our Prime Minister what is going on? Has our diplomacy informed the competent institutions of the Republic of Slovenia? Did you at least give the Croats a protest note or did we capitulate unconditionally?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Mr. Foreign Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u219	I think it was more rhetorical questions that did not even require an answer or one that they would have accepted. I think I've told you everything before, what needs to be said. The basic point is that in order for the foreign ministry to react, it must be informed of a matter, it must be fully informed, it must have documentation. I told you we don't have this paperwork. Only on the basis of some documentation can you provide it to us, only on the basis of documentation, can you look into the documentation and then we can reliably respond to an action. Certainly, however, it is known who exercised sovereignty on Day 25. 6. We know that the border will be established by an arbitration agreement that will take into account day 25. 6. Of course, after that date, when the border is known, it will be much easier to handle such matters. But if we do not have all the information, we cannot react, but we are ready to look and respond accordingly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Would you like some more? Mr. Györek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u221	In view of the fact that there are also many other strange cases in the disputed territorial areas related to the question of the irreconcilability of the border and the jurisdiction of the State and its authorities on the territory on the left bank of the Mura River, such as the fact that you are informed, informed, the death of 85-year-old Slovenian women on the disputed land and, of course, the resulting number of questions raised regarding jurisdiction and competences of Slovenian or Croatian authorities, police, investigative judges and so on. Then it is also an acute question of the border precursor to the project of the far-off Circovce - Pinke, which storms ghosts in Prekmurje due to the planned departure of the route at Kapca and Gabru. The Environment Minister is probably aware of this, where it is not only an environmental issue but also a political issue, of bureaucratic complications and the inability of diplomacy to endanger the health of the Premur population of these settlements due to high-voltage cables in the immediate vicinity of residential homes and so on. As well as in the territory of the Armenian municipality, if you are familiar with where the rural population, as well as Goričkem, will be at risk in Prekmurje, where there is another remote control in Prekmurje. In short, at all ends of Prekmurje, he intervenes in the environment and space, one of which is also concerned with the dispute with Croatia, one of which is not. All of this, and much more, in relation to the issue in those territories, really dictates the need for a broader discussion and consideration of open issues at this level in our National Assembly. I therefore propose a decision by vote in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Your proposal to hold a debate on the answers of both ministers at the next meeting will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the votes. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor to ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Ivan Svetlik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u223	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! As we can see, we have recently witnessed a number of downturns in businesses, especially in regions where unemployment is already very large in one way or another. Here, if I think about the Podrav region, Maribor and so on. I simply cannot personally understand that even the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, as well as the entire Government of the Republic of Slovenia, have not been able to face such a critical situation in this area in our country. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been trying to convince us that nothing can be done in this area except to increase funds for social assistance and unemployment compensation and that the global crisis is responsible for this situation in our society. I am convinced that immediate action should be taken in this area to prevent the further collapse of our economy and to prevent, with appropriate solutions, the collapse of the entire economic sectors and, of course, the consequent increase in the growth of the unemployed. During the three years of the rule of the Government of Borut Pahor, and thus the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, led by Minister Svetlik, many strong words have been spoken in terms of assistance to improve economic stability and growth in the economic field. A large number of resources were provided from the State budget to bridge the difficulties during the recession and the decline in economic activities, which should result in a reduction in unemployment and economic recovery, but there are no results. Unemployment is rising, businesses are falling, people are experiencing trauma, families are falling apart, and poverty is rising. I am also raising an important question in terms of correct information to people about the real number of unemployed. The data show that in addition to the number known to the public, about 107 000 people are unemployed. However, this also raises a question, namely, what does the figure referred to as the outflow from the Employment Office mean, and this is 21 000 301 persons who have not been employed according to the data of the Statistical Office. So the only logical answer could be that they work in black or do not have a job. If we add up to 107 thousand unemployed, this means that the real number of unemployed in Slovenia is almost 130 000. That's why I'm asking you: What will you do to prevent the further deterioration of businesses and thereby increase unemployment? What measures will you propose to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in terms of improving the situation in this area? What measures will you take to prevent further increases in the number of unemployed in the regions? Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Dr. Svetlik will answer your questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Pojbič, as regards the results of our action in recent years, let me say that the unemployment rate in Slovenia is in the ranking of one third of the European Union countries with the lowest unemployment rate. As far as poverty is concerned, we are among the five countries with the lowest risk of poverty in the European Union. This is what the country, statistics and the European Union are talking about, which we did not invent. As far as black work is concerned, we know who proposed a referendum against the law we have drawn up. Now that you are specifically asking what our ministry has done to help businesses in the sense that companies in difficulty would overcome the crisis, let me say that it is basically the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy and not ours, but also in this context that I can state that more new businesses have been created during the crisis than they have failed. Unfortunately, new companies are smaller. Those who have failed are larger, so the balance of jobs is negative because of this, but the process of dying and giving birth to businesses is a normal process of restructuring the economy, which has been seen elsewhere for a long time, and we are just referring to this process. When you ask questions about our Ministry's actions, let me mention the two intervention laws that we adopted immediately at the beginning of the crisis, which resulted in at least twenty-five thousand preserved jobs. After two years of looking at how many of these jobs remain, more than twenty-two thousand remain and today the export industry has more orders than the metal, automotive, electricity industry can provide. Secondly, we have doubled funds for active employment policy programmes. Last year, more than seventy thousand unemployed were involved in these programmes and, through the Institute, eighty-five thousand workers were employed last year. These programmes encourage companies to recruit these workers. They are training, education and social inclusion programmes. In addition to the active employment policy, this year the Social Entrepreneurship Act was adopted in the National Assembly, which will be implemented in the coming year, with the aim of allowing the employment of the most vulnerable groups, those most difficult to employ in the profit sector, and which is also intended to provide through social enterprises those services that are economically difficult to provide at local level. And when you ask about these regional differences, let me first say that active employment policy is directed so that more resources are always given to those regions where unemployment is greater. By already showing the regional orientation of this policy. In addition, we have taken some additional measures. For example, the Law on Assistance to Pomour introduced an additional instrument to facilitate the payment of contributions, and then the Law for Pomura was adopted, where four million funds will be specifically allocated for employment in the region in the coming years 2011 and 2012. The content of these programmes is primarily intended to promote employment in employers and to train job seekers. Here I can also mention the resources of the Globalisation or Globalisation Fund Fund, which we have also used to help Mura workers who have lost their jobs and whose large part has also been re-acquired by our programmes. So in fact, in this sense, quite a lot of work has been done and the results, as we say, comparatively show that our policy here is quite successful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Mr. Marian Pojbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u227	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Mr Minister, indeed, you have told some truths, but the key truth about all these things you have said is that since 2008, since we had between fifty-six thousand and sixty thousand unemployed, we now have about one hundred thirty thousand. If this argument is that the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons and the Government has done well to produce at least once more unemployed in three years than it did in 2008, then, I don't know, I don't understand it, then it's hard to convince me that such a government and the ministry and all those who have worked in this area are some capacity, some quality. Ask those sixty or seventy thousand people who have lost their jobs, what do they think of this quality policy of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Government. Let the people ask you. They'll tell you the truth, Mr. Secretary. This question of mine today has not been exclusively addressed in the context of unemployment. It was intended to clarify the fundamental dilemma that arises when we look at the difference between the central-Slovenian region and, say, the sub-level with Maribor. Mr Minister, the issue of unemployment, the economic situation, the social and economic crisis is alarming at this moment in Maribor. There are almost 20% of the unemployed. So, at least, what is crucial is that a similar law, as adopted for Pomurje, is urgently needed in order to prevent the total economic, social and financial collapse of the Podrav region. Please, Mr. Secretary, tell me: What will you do to prevent this difference between Ljubljana and Maribor?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u228	Thank you very much, Mr. Pojbich. Here you go, Mr. Svetlik!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u229	Thank you very much. First, let me fix you. Official information says we have 107 thousand unemployed. Now, if you do not believe in official statistics or definitions, then you will have to adopt a decree on different calculation of unemployment. Two, I'll say it again. Slovenia has a relatively low unemployment rate compared to other countries, despite the fact that its decline in social product was one of the greatest in times of crisis, which means, in itself, that measures to mitigate this problem have worked and that we have reduced the incidence of unemployment, which would otherwise have occurred if it had followed only the fall of gross social product to a greater extent than the measures taken. Once again, I stress that all the policies we are pursuing are regionally oriented by definition, as resources for public works programmes, education, the promotion of businesses are being allocated in terms of the level of unemployment in individual regions. If you look at the data, you will see that unemployment has declined most in the Pomurska region in the past year, as well as in the Ptuj district unit, such as the two regions you often mention. However, it is true that no one has invented jobs in the market economy so far. If you're lucky enough to invent it, I'm sure you'll get the Nobel Prize. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Mr. Pojbich, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u231	Mr. Secretary, I am very pleased with your debate. And what you said in the end is true. Any one of them would have earned the Nobel Prize, which could have found a solution to give the unemployed a job overnight with a magic wand. But I have one important thing to say at the same time. In 2004, the government adopted Janez Janša, I think 94,000 unemployed. At the end of 2008, there were 55,000 of them. So she should be given the Nobel Prize. Minister, so you have said, I ask this Government to take this decision and to give the government Janez Janša Nobel Prize for reducing unemployment by 35,000 unemployed. You can't deny it, Mr. Secretary. You can laugh at the cubicle, but you can't deny it. It's actually a state, there's evidence, there's statistics. When you spoke of the unemployed being only 107,000, Mr. Minister, this statement of yours is not true, it's a lie. It says here, August 2011 – outflow for reasons that do not mean employment. 21 thousand 301 and 107 thousand, what's that, you're a professor? Is that about 130,000 or not? How can you tell me if the Statistical Office here proves these people didn't get a job, but where are they, you tell me? What did we export them to, I don't know where? Mr. Secretary, don't fool yourself because it doesn't hold. Here's the data. You can read, if you don't know, please, I read it once. I don't want to regret it. Mr Vice-President, I apologize, nor do I, Mr Minister, whom I personally appreciate, do not wish to offend, but Mr Minister, this is what it says here. I didn't make that up. It's official information from the Bureau of Statistics. Then look, the difference between the Podravska region and Central Slovenia. If we look at the number of inhabitants, Central Slovenia has about 530 thousand inhabitants, I looked at the computer a little earlier, and Podravska has 320 thousand inhabitants. And look, on this date that I was talking about today, August 2011, Podravska has 20 thousand 100 unemployed, while Central Slovene has almost once more, 23 thousand 800. And then how can someone here talk to me about coherent regional development and who can then claim here that we are directing resources so that all the places in this country develop equally if there were a whole bunch of proposed laws that totally obliterated the periphery. Therefore, Mr Vice-President, because I am not satisfied with the Minister's response, I propose that a broader debate be made on this issue in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Your proposal to hear Mr Svetlik's reply to the debate in the National Assembly will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the votes. The question will be raised by Mr Marjan Bezjak to Minister Mitji Gaspari in his capacity as Minister of Economy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u233	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished fellow Members! Mr. Gaspari, Minister for Development and Minister for Economy, I ask you: What are the concrete results of the Government in the following areas? First, the ranking of Slovenia on the world competitiveness scale. Second, indebtedness, labour costs, added value, liquidity and business results of Slovenian companies. Thirdly, the number of insolvency proceedings, bankruptcys, compulsory settlement and liquidity, liquidation. Please answer these questions with specific numbers: Are you satisfied with these results? I know that, after all, now that you have taken up the post of Minister of Economy, for some things you were not competent to make decisions, but in the end you were also in Government, in the end the whole Government is the apparatus responsible for the Slovenian economy in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u234	Mr. Gaspari, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u235	Mr. Vice President, honourable Members! There are no messages. Your question would be difficult to answer now with individual numbers, as far as the results are concerned, because they are published by the APES and you know them very well, even for 2010, although I have written them here, I see no reason to list them for you now. I could do that if you wanted, even after the end of the session. But that's not the point. What you asked me or wanted to ask me was: Why has the competitiveness situation deteriorated after one of the reports prepared by the international institutions, which is partly based on objective indicators, and partly on the survey principle? If we look at Slovenia this year, why this situation has deteriorated. It has deteriorated mainly for two reasons. Due to the relatively poor functioning of the financial system, this applies mainly to banks. I can say more than that over time. Secondly, because of the crisis in construction that did not arise from the economic crisis in the world, it is due to overinflation of construction activity before the crisis. Of course, after something is overblown, it slowly or quickly explodes or decreases. Construction is a typical example where the domestic industry in an inadequacy involved in these processes did not care about the quality of its operations, markets, prices and the like. At the end of the big highway project, which was clear a few years in advance, this construction operation simply lost ground under its feet and was no longer looking for business. Not to mention the criminal and other acts you know. So these two results are essential. A third, which is also essential. The three are mainly an explanation of what these findings say is a question of the labour market. As you know, Slovenia is unable to reach a social agreement between the social partners on urgent changes in the labour market right now. I hope that the next Government will be successful in this regard, that it will successfully conclude the social agreement with the social partners, that it will adopt a new pension reform, which will also produce results, not just some beautiful corrections, and that it will be significantly more successful in the labour market and will achieve such a result. If this is achieved, there is no doubt that the indicators will improve. With regard to the banking system, there is no measure by the State or a single ministry that could replace dry credit activity, since this credit activity is a crucial element of the operation of any economy based on a credit principle in order to be replaced by fiscal instruments. The same is true for the incoming new government, that if this spasm succeeds, and this cramp cannot be resolved with a bad bank at state level, because then it will happen that we will have a spasm at the level of government debt that Ireland has now, but with what we are trying to achieve that banks themselves will be significantly more active in this area. We are also counting on the active role of the Bank of Slovenia to adapt its regulatory and prudential control policy in line with the economic situation so that banks can simultaneously meet the necessary capital standards and, on the other hand, there will be no absolute downsizing of credit activities, which is the case. This has been happening in Slovenia in the last year. These are the basic reasons. But then there are the inestimable reasons, which many times, this part, based on the principle of survey, is the most stressed. That's the weakness of administration. I'm just going to say one example where you're going to see that something that looked great years ago turned out to be bad in this situation. This e-VEM is an example. It is said that the entry point for the registration of companies, which is in itself something good, and here even goes on to commend the Minister of Public Administration, who did so in the previous term, and it has now proved that problems have arisen that institutions which should be connected in this regard are simply not related to the Supreme Court, the IAPES and the DURS. And anyone who wants to rebuild, to re-establish a company, can achieve this by falsely making a statement and no one controls it. So, something that was basically well set up was poorly carried out in practice. These are things that are in this case, not to mention here, a colleague of the Minister of Environment and Space, can tell you why we have such problems with building permits and administrative procedures in the environment and space that reduce any possibility of serious, rapid placement of things in the area of infrastructure [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u236	Mr. Secretary, thank you very much. It doesn't sound because the microphone went off. Mr. Bezjak, please, a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u237	Thank you, Minister. Right, now you've kind of gone with the answers like a pussy around hot porridge. In fact, you did not have or operate on the data. See, Slovenia falls from day to day or from month to month from year to year on the world scale in economic competitiveness. He's actually in 57th place right now. Do you believe that the measures taken by this Government have been good enough? Why did you deny all these proposals, all these measures, which the opposition had also proposed, at that time? Do you think that those proposals would not provide a better profit, a better ransom for fewer bankruptcy companies? It is true that Slovenia has progressed for one city, in fact to 51st place, perhaps with the arrival of you when Minister Radičeva left. I don't know, maybe that's what you'll say. Second thing, payment discipline. Businesses that exceeded payment deadlines for more than five days were over 5,000 in August 2011. I do not know how this path should lead to further growth and the promotion of the economy. I also stress that the beach of bankruptcy does not look like the end. In fact, there are more in Slovenia from day to day. Next, the labour cost index in Slovenia is rising. Recently, it has grown by 2.8%, and in the public administration we have employed from 3 000 800 to 5 000 people. These are the Ministry's actions.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u238	Mr. Bezjak, thank you very much. Mr. Gaspari, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u239	It is not so much a matter of action by the Minister for the Economy if we look at what is happening in Europe at the end of the year of halting growth, not in Slovenia, in Europe. Slovenia exports around 70% of its social product and of these 70% two-thirds to the European Union countries, notably Germany, Austria, Italy. So, it would be hard to assume that this development in Europe will result in a miracle in Slovenia. Even in the previous period, the miracle in Slovenia did not happen because of Slovenia, but because of the great conjuncture in the European Union and more widely if you look at the data. In particular, construction was then growing strongly above average in relation to other industries. This also led to such an average fall. As far as the cost of work is concerned, I must say that's true. 2.5, but in the last year and a half, we have reduced the backlog of unit labour costs for Germany, which is the only quality information that speaks, whether this backlog, which is then important from the point of view of competitiveness, improves or worsens. This one is slowly, slowly improving. Interestingly, in the sector that you are all interested in, in the electricity industry, we have the fastest wage growth. Why - because in my opinion this is a regulated sector because we want to remain 100% owners of everything and because of course there is no control if you look at it and from investment to current business. It's probably the second time we've talked about investments. That's different. Third. Once again, if banks don't lend - and this isn't about banks not being able to lend because there's no demand, it's just not true. If you look at how many credits are now being taken abroad, it is obvious that domestic banks, especially the largest, have a completely inappropriate credit policy right now. I know you'll ask me what the government and ministers are doing. We'll probably talk about this more tomorrow when we have plenty of time. These are the most difficult situations that prevent economic growth from recovering. With regard to the question at the end, because there was a bit of a misunderstanding earlier about the unemployed. You know, in the previous term, there was the same problem as the number of unemployed dropped to 55,000. Even then [[End of discussion warning sign]] 20 and so many people were erased from the records, even at the time [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Of course, of course! Go look at the data and you'll see. Excuse me? [[advertising from the hall]] No, because there was a speech that now suddenly some were written, and this should be included in the numbers that are officially recorded. So what Slovenia can return to growth, not 6%, which we will never see again, but in growth between 3% and 4%, which is enough, is to restore normal credit activity. Then I will answer another question on insolvency and bankruptcy so that the answer can be complete. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Mr. Bezjak, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u241	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. However, we both realized that we had too little time to say anything. I would therefore suggest that we discuss this in the National Assembly. Because all the indicators I have on me show the fall of the Slovenian economy down, not up. Dear Minister, I very much appreciate you as a minister, because you are an innovative minister. I hope that you will focus on the other economy as Minister of the Economy, not only on the energy sector, which, in fact, has been dealing only with energy for three years, but not with the other economy. I believe that your abilities will bring some step forward and that the real growth of the economy in Slovenia will go up and down, not down, as it is now, because in the end, you have already proved this by your doing when you were actually a minister. After all, it is necessary to have the innovation that you have accepted or proposed at the time. I would once again propose this debate in the National Assembly, because we both found that there was not enough time, that we would not only devote it to the National Assembly, to energy, but to the entire economic system and that Mr Minister would also be able to prepare more specifically for the things that were finally asked and asked today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u242	Thank you very much. It is also good to hear praises in the context of the questions sent, Mr Bezjak. However, you suggested that Minister Gaspari's response as Minister of Economy should be discussed by the National Assembly, which will be decided tomorrow, 20 September, in the framework of the votes. Mr Rado Likar has the floor, which will ask the Transport Minister Dr Patrick Vlačič a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u243	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues, only colleagues! The Roads Act, which was adopted at the end of last year, defines in Article 35 what and where bus stops can be. Although the second paragraph states that bus stops must be on main and regional roads outside the vehicle, however, in the event that spatial and other technical requirements do not allow the construction of a bus station outside the vehicle, the bus station may also be established on the road. In order to establish a bus stop on the road, the expert opinion of the Commission, appointed by the Minister responsible for transport, must be obtained in agreement with the Minister responsible for Home Affairs. There are certainly several bus stations in Slovenia that do not comply with all the rules, especially road safety regulations. I assume that the Ministry of Transport or the operator of state roads has a list of bus stations on state roads which are controversial or which do not have a permit to use them, since we have already witnessed some bus stops on state roads, which, of course, does not solve the problem but further deepens it. As an example, the closure of four bus stops at the 10km section of the Idrija-Godovič State Road, which was abolished by the Directorate for Roads with a Decision in force from 1 September 2011. During the night, the Roads Directorate found that these stations, which, thank God without accidents, had been used for decades, suddenly not safe enough to be stopped by buses. The possibility of using public bus transport has thus left over over forty primary schoolchildren and students, as well as employees who travel daily to work in Idrija or Godovic. I'm afraid that's not a lonely case, because the country's road safety has gone in a really radical way. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Minister: How do you plan to tackle the problem of stopping bus stops in Slovenia, such as the termination of four bus stops at the section of the Idria-Godovič State Road? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Mr. Patrick Wlačič, have a word for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u245	Thank you very much. The Municipality of Idrija warned the Slovenian Directorate for Roads that the stop points at which buses on the Idrija-Godovič route stop are dangerous and irregular. Buses stopped at points not marked with a traffic sign, not with a floor signal. The reasons for such a situation, irregularly as you correctly consider, were in extremely restrictive legislation. I think that when we were adopting legislation, we all agreed that legislation should be made somewhat more appropriate to the actual situation. The law, which was applicable until 1 July 2011, only exceptionally allowed for the marking of bus stops on the road. With amendments to the Roads Act, we have followed the real possibility that in cases where spatial and other technical requirements do not allow construction of stations outside the vehicle, we can mark stations on the road, of course taking into account the safety of passengers waiting at the station and of passengers in the vehicle. Other countries also know such solutions, such as Italy in its narrow valleys in a difficult area, the construction of a bus station outside a vehicle that can be extremely expensive. A new rule on technical regulations and minimum conditions to be met by bus stops on main and regional roads is also being drafted. It will allow these legal provisions to be implemented. For stations on the Idrija route, Godovic held a joint meeting and a tour on 7 September, attended by representatives of the Idrija municipality and the Ministry that I run, and at which it was found that most of the building blocks, given the conditions required for ensuring transparency and security, could be regulated as soon as possible. The municipality of Idrija will prepare a proposal with the most urgent documentation. On the basis of the proposal received, the Ministry will immediately carry out all marking procedures to enable them to be used.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Mr. Rado Likar, would you like to complete your answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u247	Thank you very much. I have already mentioned this Article 35 of the Roads Act, which also entered into force on 1 July 2011 or in April, in the amended Article 3 of the Road Transport Act. I don't know exactly. This says that the bus stop is marked by a traffic area designated for stopping buses which allows safe entry or exit of passengers. This Article has deleted the sentence that this should be a specially built area. Otherwise, I hope, as you mentioned, Mr Minister, that you have met with representatives of the local authorities in Idrija as well as with representatives of the locals, the affected countries, who, I think, are in an unappreciative position. As in mockery of these problems that the people of the country have, this European week of mobility begins on Friday with an emphasis or a different topic. I think it's right for these locals to hide this otherwise truly symbolic meaning. But I'm asking you anyway: Why wait for this rule if the rules, in my opinion, you may object to this, are already allowing a more rational solution? So when, in the shortest time, can we expect this to be the shortest time? Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Wlačič, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u249	The regulation will not prevent us from arranging this station as soon as possible. It is not a rule of law issue, but it is more a matter of ensuring safe entry and exit, as legislation requires. That's the key. Here we are with the congregation of Idria arranged for each one to do his part. As soon as we get them, we'll prepare our work immediately. But the agreement is clear, and the congregation also accepts it, so I don't think there should be any problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Marinič will ask the Minister for Environment and Space Dr Roko Žarnić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u251	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Nice hello to you all! Well, today we have also talked a lot about so-called municipal spatial plans in the past. Maybe there was a little less talk about so-called State Spatial Plans. If we have found that the first paintings are quite clarinet, we can find that the clairvoyant image is also in state spatial plans. One of these is certainly in putting the remotes into space, especially the remotes, which reach into space and which for most people is not acceptable in view of the consequences it brings. It is the placement in the premises of the Circovce-Pince remote control, which has been drilling ghosts throughout its intended route for decades and perhaps something over. If all interested parties were to carry out their tasks in accordance with the wishes and needs of the people living in the area, then it would be likely that the installation of such a facility as the placement of the Circovce-Pince remote point in the space would be completed long ago. Where's he stopping? It stops where those who plan and place the object in space take into account the desires and needs of the people. It's true that everything can't be done. But it is also true that when it comes to consequences affecting human health and life, it is necessary to listen to people. Dear Minister, I ask you specifically about the placement in space, regarding the construction of 2 x 400 kilovolts of Circovce-Pince: At what stage are the activities for the final placement of the facility in the space? What measures did you take to your staff members who did not take into account the proposals at the time of the public consultation?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u252	Mr. Minister Roko Žarnic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u253	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, distinguished fellow Ministers! I wouldn't agree it was a clown. On the previous question, if you had listened, you could have heard that things were going on in most congregations. Neither is the case with State Spatial Plans. They're inside what's possible. If we compare the timeline of this with us and in other countries, you can see that we are not at the bottom, but quite successful. The procedure for preparing the State Spatial Plan that you want to know about is currently in the stage of taking a position on the comments made at the June 2011 launches. Once the views are concluded, the manufacturer of the State Spatial Plan will draw up a proposal for a State Spatial Plan, which will then be forwarded to the competent space regulators for an opinion by the Ministry of Environment and Space. In the next step, when the competent space regulators carry out their work, our ministry, together with the Ministry of Economy, will submit a State Spatial Plan for adoption by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, it explains that our employees do not need any action in this case, as comments and proposals from the public and the public at the public hearings in October 2009 and subsequent public presentations in June 2011 were taken into account to the maximum possible extent in the preparation of the State Spatial Plan. The reasons for non-compliance with certain requirements of the public and the municipalities are in conflict with their requirements and with safeguards, spatial or technical restrictions. In all these cases, additional analyses and evaluation of proposals or requirements have found that they cannot be taken into account. The verifications were made by the manufacturers of the State and Spatial Plan, the idea project of the remote and environmental expertise, the draft report on environmental impacts, i.e. experts in their fields and not Ministry staff. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Mr. Marinic, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. My question is not alone in this mandate, which relates to this content. My content is not the only one relating to this content, as a colleague from another parliamentary group has already mentioned placing in the space of this remote. But, Mr. Secretary, I listened very carefully when you were answering to a colleague who was asking you about the municipal spatial plans. After such an order and at such a pace as you have responded to the UNO, this means that your ministry would take 9 years to issue all municipalities spatial plans. How can I explain to myself today the content of your reply so far and how to tell people who are interested and interested in it, when this will happen or when the phase will be closed again, I will say, the discontent and in some way also the concerns of people who are afraid that such a remote control, which is placed in space, will also affect human health. People rightly demand that in certain parts of the long-distance route be avoided because naturalists require a shift due to the habitat of a species of birds, while proposals, the wishes of certain officials on your part as well as other ministries do not take into account. Then, of course, it is a clear question of who is more valuable, whether animals in nature or humans. The life of humans or animals has no other value, is an invaluable value both of them, but it is a matter of priorities.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u256	Thank you very much, Mr. Marinic. Time's up. Answer, Dr. Roko Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u257	I would not agree that I do not know how many years it takes for the municipalities. I am very interested in why 39 congregations have not yet begun to do anything. We can't help anything here. I want to know why the congregations choose bad preparers. There's nothing we can do here. I have to say that those tasks that we perform, at least as long as I'm the minister, I care, they go up in time. With regard to these comments, human or animal health. I think we all know that humans have priority, but, wherever possible, we must also give animals life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u258	Thank you. Mr. Marinic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u259	With regard to the content of placing the facility in space, the far-reaching high tension of the Circovce-Pince, which is referred to, I think that 15 or more years, of course, would be worth considering that the National Assembly would hold a broader debate in response to the Minister, who cannot possibly be perfect in these minutes. I propose that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, a broader hearing be carried out to my question and to the Minister's reply on the placement of the facility in the premises in order to come up with concrete proposals, which have been transmitted in due time and in accordance with the applicable legislation, from all those who are interested, and in particular those of the local communities that defend the interests of their people. I must tell you, Minister, that your employees, at the request of some local communities, have ignored their presence, because the local communities have ensured that all those who have something to say were present while the key person of your ministry was missing directly in the field. And then it's no wonder that civil initiatives happen, signatures gather and things stop. Therefore, my second question was put right to the content: Have you acted in the sense of failure to fulfil the duties of your employees? If you do not believe that this is a specific case, ask the local communities that wanted to meet you later, because the representatives of your ministry were not on the ground at the time when the local communities ensured the presence of everyone else. Except for your representatives, there were none, but they were crucial. Municipality I see you with a letter [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u260	Mr. Marinic, please, please, if you make a suggestion. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u261	By letter of 20 July 2011, she called for this in writing. [[...]] It would be true that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we should also have a broader hearing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Mr Marinič, we will decide on your proposal tomorrow in the framework of the votes and tell you whether we will discuss in particular the response of Minister Rok Žarnic to your questions. Mrs Zvonko Lah has the floor to ask the Minister of Transport, Dr Patrick Vlačič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u263	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! The motorway’s lower leg ended or was dedicated to transport at the end of June last year. The traffic has run out, but the road has not been finished, nor has the very course of the route. The underpasses were not completed, the link to Trebnje and the former fast road and the link to the Miren Valley and the cover on the link to the Peace kiln. Well, soon after the road was open, those works broke down. First it was Vegrad, then it was SCT. In the necessary part all the companies that were in the consortium died, and in the second part, Ponikve-Crasti, two of the four are still alive. It's been 15 months. Work's stopped. In Trebnje there is only one lane connecting to the Miren Valley. The traffic light's been standing for almost a year. On this road is gravity complete Meren Valley including Sevnica. Indeed, the citizens here are quite patient when they have practically been driving across the construction site for a year. Just like the other part. The connecting road is not built to cover the trench. The connection's working. The highway goes down by the tractors, which then can't even meet on the local road. Otherwise, the connection is open, but people wonder what kind of master state it is, how the construction site has to go down, the armature of the brown, the digging up, and by no means do we get the right answer from Dars. That's why I'm talking to you: Can you tell us when this will be over, what are the activities? Kernekko needs to cut through here. Minister, you're responsible, you're called on to do something about it, because now they have lawyers in their hands who send letters. Their jobs are running, their salaries are getting paid, and there's damage done in the field.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Minister Patrick Wlačič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u265	So, after the completion of the 30. 6. In 2010 the Mirenska connection is still not yet concluded. In Mirenska, the bankruptcy of CPM and SCT led to a halt in all the works. 3. 2011. The contracting authority terminated the contract with the SCT and CPM operators and cashed in the bank guarantee. In preparation, there is a call for the selection of a new contractor, according to my information, who will complete the work on the Mirenski telecommunications. According to Darsa's forecast, this work is expected to be completed in 2013. On the Mirnopek Connection, the contracting authority made a partial withdrawal from the Vedgrad and SCT contractual partners. Dars requested the fulfilment of the contractual obligation by Primorje or Kraske grader. At present, negotiations are under way to continue work. It is the transfer of documents, the regulation of bank guarantees, the agreement on the single entry into contracts, the signatures of bankruptcy managers and others. Work on the Mirnopek Connection will also be completed in 2013 according to Darsa's forecasts. I'm sorry there's been this delay. They are an objective consequence of the collapse of the builders, because our legislation does not allow a direct choice of the next one on the list, but a public invitation to tender needs to be made again, which is not very easy, since a list of work needs to be made, it is necessary to know what is needed to complete and arrange everything else that comes with the usual invitation to build a new section. Here, however, it is practically a whole new call because from unfinished work to the end of work it was different from the original section when it was not built.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u266	Thank you very much. The bell of Lah. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u267	Mr. Minister, there's supposed to be a three-month job on the roof. But you've just said that it's supposed to be finished in 2013. So it's a year and a half till then. It is also a matter of drawing on European funds, but we can draw on these funds by 2015, as we know. This has been going on for a very long time around the bankruptcy manager, but it is said that the deal is over. It is, however, that the new contractor should also cover the bank guarantee for the works performed by the previous contractor. That's the only problem. Otherwise, the line is drawn, it is known what was built, paid to previous operators, but the new contractor cannot guarantee the things that he could have done and not the previous contractor who is in bankruptcy. There's a bunch of material on the site that's probably in bankruptcy. Apparently, the designer hasn't even gotten the paid project yet. It's not that complicated. Look, at this part, Dars and I both worked very well with DDC. You probably know that at the time of the excavation, the congregation obtained a building permit for the equalization work of the industrial zone and that Dars saved quite a few million because he had material practically in the construction site. Cooperation was good, but as long as it was within the operational framework. But when it goes beyond the operational area and it gets to higher levels, it ends. I can't accept that this is going to take another year and a half, but three months is supposed to be just work. But the problem is that there's a service contract going on there, or there's going to be a redundancies, and I don't know what else. Things are gonna get complicated.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u268	Thank you very much, Mr. Lach. Here you go, Mr. Secretary, a supplement to your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u269	That's the answer they've prepared for me. I'm not oversatisfied with him. We'll see if there's anything we can do in agreement with the DARS to speed up, but there's one thing that makes me question whether it's really possible to do things quickly. On the one hand, I have an example of a Maribor airport. We've got, physically, just "stitchers for sashraft," I'll tell you at home, on a new building. There were no two, three weeks of work, and it's been practical for us since the contract was terminated when we broke the contract at the Ministry. We don't have a new contractor yet. The second call is already out, and the building is really physically completed. I'll make sure it's done as soon as possible. Both connections are important to the people who live there. We'll see if it's possible at any time. But if these are the obstacles you're talking about, then we shouldn't. But we'll make sure they do.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u270	Mr. Bell Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u271	See, then my question is very similar to that of colleague Milan Čadež. These are similar questions. But before that, I think Minister Gaspari has told us where our cancer is, in the administration. It takes three months to work a year and a half. In fact, a service contract between the owner and the DARS, which unfortunately expired, was signed for this covered trench. Because this innkeeper spent a year and a half hosting the Vegrad workers for free, for a few months they were without pay and this warm meal was their only meal of the day. In the morning, he made them tea for free, and in the end, he wiped himself under his nose for all the money. He didn't get a paid lunch for a year and a half, and now he's probably going to have to sign the service contract again, it's going to be a problem. Unless Dars is gonna go into decommissioning. We know what the decommissioning process is. And here's the lack of a healthy farmer's mind that this can't be solved and that it builds on. People are already making a fool out of everything. I went to the construction site every morning to see whether he was making progress or not, and I was literally knocked by workers who didn't get a few months' wages. And in the morning, when they came to work, they asked if there was gonna be lunch. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u272	Mr Lah, say a proposal, not ask any more questions or comment on the answers. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u273	I'm explaining. I think we need to be so human and even now cut this dilemma that it is. I don't think it's necessary to do much, at least on this piece of peacemaking, but also in Trebinjska. I think a new invitation to tender would also be made. At the time that traffic had to be released on this highway, there was night and day, and then it stopped. The highway itself has not yet been completed and traffic is taking place as far as drainage is concerned and so on. I would therefore suggest that this issue, which will likely produce some results, be discussed both by his fellow Member of Chad and by mine, both of them would be part of a single set. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u274	Thank you very much. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the answer given by Dr. Wlačič to your question may be discussed. We will vote on this tomorrow in the course of the votes in the National Assembly. Mr Daniel Krivec has the floor to ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition. To dean jedan, who's entitled. Are you going to ask anyway? Here you go, Mr. Guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u275	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President, distinguished ministers, colleagues who still insist! I will ask the oral question and I will also ask the Minister for an answer, for an oral answer at the next meeting. In Posoča and also wider in the Slovenian area there are farms owned by the state. In Sosoč, these farms were built in Italy’s time as a substitute or compensation for the construction of hydropower plants. Among them is a farm in Kobarid, which is owned by the state. It is managed by the Institute for Fisheries of the Republic of Slovenia. The situation in this farm is catastrophic. For a long time, we have been alerting ourselves to the unregulated situation and the neglected condition of this farm. The fish farm is located along the main road in Kobarid and thus represents a great shame and obstacle in this space. And the situation is still getting worse. Some of the pools, which were designed and operated, even dipped. There is another farm in Lepena, which is also in the management of the Department of Fisheries, and therefore also owned by the State. The Fisheries Agency uses it for tourist purposes. That's why I'm asking the Minister: When will the situation in these farms be regulated in such a way that these fish farms, which have been designed for the management of fish stocks, will be re-established?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u276	Thank you very much. In accordance with your request, Mr Daniel Krivec, you will receive an oral reply from the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food at the next meeting. Mr Jakob Preseknik will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Ivan Svetlik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u277	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! So, in the written part of the question, or forecast of the question, I wrote what was going on. That's why Mr. Secretary knows. The fact is that in 2005 and 2006 the Municipality of Osilnica built the building of the House of Older Citizens of Osilnica with a total area of close to 3,800 square metres, meaning one large building which was built today or was then stopped until the third construction phase. I think this facility was designed for a capacity of 80 beds. As we say, this facility stands. I think that the wider Slovenian public is also well-known, it has been presented several times in the media and so on. For the municipality of Osilnica, as one of Slovenia's smallest municipalities, where employment is an employment problem and is a demographicly threatened area and so on, one such facility is extremely important. It should also be pointed out that, while the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs agreed in principle at the time, the project was also run through state institutions. On the basis of this principled consensus or principled opinion of the Ministry of Labour, the agreement of the Ministry of Finance was obtained. The facility was also co-financed by the then Regional Development Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, which means, as an object, a home for older citizens. According to some documentation it is Črnomelj, according to some other conclusions of Kočevje, the Osilnica Unit. So, there was co-financing in 2005 and 2006, I think, at the rate converted to euro, about 350 thousand euros. Today, as it was said, the situation is in the third construction phase. The municipality also has some investors who would have been able to do some of the projects for different purposes if the State or the Ministry of Labour with the concession had enabled the construction of a home for older citizens at least in part. Of course, there is also a wider region or arrangement between individual municipalities where capacity building or upgrading within the home for older citizens will take place. I'm asking for an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Dr. Ivan Svetlik will answer. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, we are aware of this issue at the Ministry and we have been in contact with representatives of the local community all the time. Since the planning of this project, we have warned them that according to the location and number of people in the municipality there is an inadequate solution. That is why we have proposed that this project should be carried out as a building of a smaller unit in connection with an already existing home. At that time, it was suggested that they connect with the home in Kočev, which we should actually do and we cannot do instead. For various reasons that we don't even know, this connection didn't happen. They began to connect with the municipality of Črnomelj. However, this agreement was not implemented either, but they decided on their own, without having our differing opinion, as originally it was, that they had put this object up to stage 3. This facility is supposed to offer the possibility to accommodate about 80 people in a small municipality with only a few 100 inhabitants, which, according to our estimate, would be a problem in filling this house and, of course, an economic problem in its maintenance. When they put this up, they also decided to apply for a concession, as requested when it comes to a separate facility, for a separate home. However, there was no concession invitation to tender because this area already has a standard, which is more than 5% of the older citizens enrolled in nursing homes over 65 years of age. The funds, as it is said, were partly provided, not by our ministry, but were public funds to help local development. Now in this situation we still think that this project has a solution in a way that is not entirely intended for the accommodation capacity of the elderly, but that it combines different content, especially in the field of health, including social protection, and that this solution should be sought in cooperation with either the home in Kočev or Montenegro. By the way, these two homes need renovations. At that time, some of these facilities could be offered in the municipality of Osilnica in the case of renovation and updating as well as raising the standard. Of course, not entirely because there are no such needs in this area. In this regard, we will, as we have proposed so far, re-meeting of the representatives of the Municipality of Osilnica and also of these two houses and see whether we are ready to go in this direction, because we also care that some of the objects that have been started and the plans that have been set up do not come true, but in the form that promises that then this house will be fully able to serve its purpose, but not that we have problems, as some homes in Slovenia have when they have problems with obtaining residents, and, of course, there are problems with financing and management in these homes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Mr. Jacob the Presbyterian, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u281	Thank you very much. I thank you for that answer. So the fact is that it's one huge stake in investment, you could say in terms of the area where this investment is. Point the object up to the 3rd construction phase, which has been standing for 5, 6 years, is, of course, huge for the first time, the second time the damage is done on it daily, and the building can't even hold on for how long. As you rightly mentioned, public funds have also been invested. In addition to the municipalities of course, also state. Therefore, I welcome the last thing you have said that you will also convene a meeting with the representatives of these two houses, preferably the regions or municipalities in this area, because you are also granting any additional concessions. Given that this is an object that stands there, it is an area that is certainly among the most threatened to be a small place, where every job is welcome, I appeal that this meeting be reached as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u282	Thank you very much. Mr. Svetlik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u283	Maybe just a brief explanation, if I wasn't clear enough before. An agreement with one of the houses that would lead to an appropriate solution means that there is no need for an invitation to tender for concessions which we cannot give according to the criteria, but then this problem is resolved in accordance with the programme of renewal and expansion of the existing home. This solution is then the only possible in view of the actual situation in this area. Otherwise, we should go to the concession tender, which is not allowed by the national programme.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Ambassador Franz Pukšič will ask the Member of the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Igor Lukšić, who is not present. Mr. Pukšič, will you still ask the question? Well, Mr. Luksic is on his way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Of course, I will be so considerate as to wait for the Minister to be in his place and be able to listen to the question. Minister, this time it's tied to your department, which you've been running for three years. To be very honest, this question is also a question of how to examine what is being done and how it is done in which department. I don't even need to get a concrete answer today. It's to point out some of the irregularities that we've been informed that you'll know from your ministry. So, I agree that in Slovenia we have problems entering technical programmes for so-called deficit professions. The reason for the lack of technical programmes or education in technical programmes is not in the absence of tendering cities. Every year there are more than students and students enrolled in these places. The technique, however, is a little more demanding. This is also evident in filling these cities. At the same time, schools implementing technical programmes - I also know this personally well, after all, I have worked in such a school for ten years myself - even now, in addition to the small admission of a major problem due to all costs, both equipment standards, the acquisition of adequate personnel and other criteria, which are necessary or perhaps sometimes too harsh for the quality of the programme. The programmes are at a high level. Even more stringent are the conditions for verification, i.e. the creation of a new such programme in a new school. Therefore, I find it difficult to understand how one such program can be rescheduled completely. In this case, it is the Kranj Technical School Centre, which is already beginning to enter higher education electricity programmes this year, according to our information without the proper verification process and without the fulfilment of all requests, both human resources and other material.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u286	Thank you very much. Dr Igor Lukšič, Minister for Education and Sport, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u287	President, thank you for your word. Thank you, Mr Member for your question. I'll look into what's going on in this case, and I'll tell you about it, but here I'll tell the public what my colleagues have prepared for me. This year, at the Kranj Technical School Centre, a program of electricity is launched. They shall ensure that all procedures are conducted in accordance with the rules. The technical school center is 14. Seven. 2010, therefore, before a good year, in accordance with the provisions of the Regulation on the Establishment of Higher Schools, he submitted to the Ministry an elaboratory on the allocation of additional study programmes for regular and extraordinary studies under the electricity programme. The Ellaborat shall comprise all the elements prescribed. However, it proves that there is a need for personnel in the area of electricity in the mountainous region. There are a number of indicators here that confirm this. This programme is also supported by the Regional Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Chamber of Commerce in Slovenia, Regional Development Agency of Gorenjska and Municipality of Kranj. It is clear from the elaboratory that sufficient is provided in companies. They talk about 45 jobs, which are also suitable for practical education of students. The school has adequate material conditions, laboratories, modern equipment for carrying out a higher education study in the field of electricity. These are, as colleagues assure, the conditions that the school fulfils. Therefore, there is no reason for the Minister not to give his consent as he did. But they're saying that the Ministry is calling on the school to provide information about the lecturers. The appointment of lecturers at school is completed. The Professional Council for Vocational and Professional Education shall give agreement to the appointment of lecturers. This procedure is ongoing and will, as they provide, be completed in due time. There's a case that's done according to the rules. However, I agree with you that I will, however, check to see why not all of the conditions which the school is only now gradually completing have already been met when it enters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič, please complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u289	Thank you very much, Minister, for perhaps having any further argument that you might be able to drill in the direction, because we know what bureaucracy is like. 26 times they'll find an excuse just to be right. I'll send you one letter, too, from which those people who gave this information will not be seen. But it is so that when they found out about it, they were actually appalled and somehow silenced and said that it would not happen at the Kranj Technical School Centre, as it did with those Chinese students in Maribor, and so on, if you remember these affairs. That's how I'm going to give you what they had. However, it is easy for some false statements in the application itself and so on and on, on the other hand, the demolitions which have been doing this since 1996. And as I mentioned earlier, the technical conditions and all the others that they have to meet are taken from their sleeves, which, of course, is not good and will not be acquired in quality, but will only be lost. In short, it is also some of the special personal interests of some individuals. Thank you so much for your answer, and I'm going to give it to you too.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u290	Thank you very much. I understand that there is no need for a complementary response. That is why Dr Vinko Gorenak, Minister of Justice Aleš Zalar, will now raise the question. Here you go, Mr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, I have asked the question in writing once before about legal state examinations, judicial examinations in the past. Your answers have always been a sort of summary of the legal acts of law, of the laws, of how these things go. However, I must say that from day to day I receive more and more notices indicating irregularities in this area. Given the circumstances in which we just spoke, I don't think they're necessary in front of the camera, but please, if you're trying to answer my question: What about the personnel records in court, you have, you have no mechanisms to prevent any abuse in this area? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u292	Minister Aleš Zalar, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u293	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you for the question, honourable Member. Indeed, we have already explained in a written reply some of the main features of the security guards in the system. These guardians are needed because a legal examination is a kind of license to enter the most important legal professions. Therefore, both the law and the regulations under the law and the special rules on the protection of confidentiality in respect of these examinations provide for more detailed rules on how to act in a particular case from the very beginning of the procedure until its conclusion. This is too extensive for me to now sum up everything in this answer to the question. That's why I'm going to focus on what you specifically pointed out. This is a matter of personnel records. In this regard, I must say that, in fact, the concept of personnel records should be separated from personal records. That's two different things. The Staff Records are provided for by the Law on Courts and data on the name, date of birth, residence, education and so on are kept for judges. I believe you had in mind the personal record provided for in section 72 of the Judicial Service Act. The law makes it very clear what this personal record must contain. Then there is another record, which is foreseen by the Law on Legal and State Examination. This, however, refers to elements of the contents of the records which must exist as evidence in this regard. I must say that these records are kept by the Ministry of Justice in accordance with the law. In one part, when it comes to personal records, it is very important that all other public authorities which obtain or produce data that are being submitted to these personal records of judges act in accordance with their legal obligations and provide the Ministry with all the necessary information. This is, of course, crucial because the Ministry here is only the recipient of this information provided by others. It's the Ministry that keeps that data. I must say that we at the Ministry of Justice have so far not received any concrete or abstract complaints or any other information that might indicate that there are any irregularities here. In particular, in recent times we have been dealing with the question of whether there could be a conflict of interest between examiners on exams either in writing or in the oral part of the legal state exam when such an interrogator, for example, would educate an individual candidate in a private form of education. Here we have come to find interesting information that, according to the statements of all 177 respondents, so many are registered, there is only one case where the former judge, who is retired today, has said that he occasionally participates in these private forms of education, but, if there is a situation, it is not so far that the same candidate would appear as a candidate for the exam to be eliminated in such a case. She does not participate in the written tasks of the candidates anyway, only in oral work. But there is a commission of six, so in this case it is also a strong enough safeguard against, for example, a situation where someone might say it was a conflict of interest. In short, we have no record of any irregularities arising here. But if we get them, if anyone gives them to us, we'll check them out and then we'll react accordingly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u295	Thank you very much. I will not ask for any further discussion, so, Mr Minister, I would just like to say something. Neither did I get any concrete information, or do you know that there are situations in which someone would teach and then be an interrogator, although there were quite a number of clues in this direction. But what I ask and want, and that is why I will not propose a discussion below, but what is next. You know, we were in the state administration years ago, or we could say "whole haiko" or something about so-called certificates, diplomas, etc. Indeed, the entire state administration has checked the situation, whether individuals employed in the state administration have a diploma at all. You know, a couple of 10 people were found without a degree in State Administration. But what I have before me is basically your document. Here I ask you to do what you need to do, because the matter may be alarming. Your employee, an official for accessing information of a civil nature to the Kranj Civil Initiative on 22 July 2011, is a civil initiative of the Association for Justice, Progress and Control, and makes it clear that for – and I will not read the names – six judges have no proof that they have ever passed a legal examination. I'm going to stop at this point without giving the public a hard time about it. But it seems to me that the authorities in the judiciary, whether it's the Ministry, whether it's the Council of Justice or anyone, in this minute, I think, had to turn on one big red light to start an action to verify the situation in this area. That's all I'm asking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u296	Thank you very much. Mr. Zalar, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u297	Mr Member, yes, this document you are mentioning was the Ministry's agreement. It was a request to obtain information on certificates of legal examination for a larger number of judges of a court. Since it is judges who have been judges for decades and since one part of these personnel files is archived under the current regulations, not according to the newer ones now in force, manual reviews of all these writings were required. And in the first reply to the applicant, it was indeed stated that six of these judges, for whom it was requested, along with all others, had not yet been found at that time. These certificates were later found and this association was also informed, including those six other judges, so that this issue was last clarified by letter to the applicant on 13 September. I hope that the problem has fallen away, but in fact, the new Law on Courts and Judicial Services, which entered into force in the course of the reorganisation of the judiciary in 1995, has, of course, established appropriate grounds for storing all these documents. However, part of the personnel records in previous files or in accordance with previous rules which were transferred were archived. This, of course, always requires a manual search for each individual. This record is not centralised as opposed to these new records which are. This is actually the only problem that has arisen in this particular case. So it also took some more time for these certificates to be found. So much for an explanation of this particular case.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u298	Thank you very much. I understand, Mr. Gorenak, that there will be no more demands. The last question will be posed by the mag. Stefan Tessel, Mag. Mitji Gaspari as Minister of Economy. Here you go, Mr. Tessel.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u299	Dear Mr President, all present! In Slovenia, the overall economic crisis has created an extremely difficult situation in the employment of the economy. It is well known that the banking system in the Slovenian financial market has closed down and multiplied its business problems and thus contributed to the problems of companies, which in many cases ended in the most drastic way, it is said by bankruptcy. The result of this situation is felt by the entire Slovenian society and by a number of ways, which have a direct and indirect impact on the budgetary flows of the country and which has further adverse consequences through the consideration of the state budget and social transfers, which are increasing by increasing the number of unemployed. In Article 199a of the Financial Transactions Act, insolvency and forced termination procedures gave the possibility in the enforcement procedure to dissipate the owners so far in the ownership of the company by creditors. In practice, some forced settlement has already been successfully completed. The decommissioning of existing owners and the entry of creditors, including banks as the largest creditors, have been implemented. This means that it would not only be sufficient to provide a legal basis for such a way of rescue of companies in enforcement procedures, but it should also be ensured that then new owners, the right banks, behave as good owners, in order to then also provide funds for the return on capital in order to enable businesses to continue their work. I ask the Minister for Development and European Affairs, who also temporarily heads the Ministry of Economy, Mr Mitja Gaspari: Is there anything else the Government can do to prevent such unfavourable distractions when banks that already own, instead of having their former owners relax, enter the ownership structure so that they can help these companies in such a way that they can continue their work and that the economy can continue? Does the government have leverage to do anything before it's too late through banks that are majority state-owned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u300	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Mitya Gaspari, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u301	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! Your question is a short answer. At the moment, in preparation for the amendment to the Insolvency Act, for a simple reason, we have found that in Article 199.a, which should allow for faster and more efficient restructuring of companies that can survive the difficulties they have and which may separate from the bad owners that have brought them into difficulties, the supplement which I hope will soon come to the National Assembly, namely that new owners or creditors who are willing to invest additional money in such a company will also become actual managers of the company by the day that such money is paid to the account. This is said to be the moment when the current owners and administrations or management bodies in these companies are formally dissolved. It's one of the important things. Another time. In enforcement procedures, those who invest additional money will have a multiple in management rights, which will be larger than others who will not deposit cash, but will only change claims into a capital share or wait in a compulsory settlement for the appropriate remuneration under this procedure. The law will further reduce the time limits to which the courts must react in the proceedings against these cases and the complaints will not be able to stop the procedures for the completion of these processes. This is one part, the second part that is even more important, is that banks in some way, if I may say so, are forced to participate more actively in the restructuring of companies in which they have invested their assets in the past. In the last decade, many banks have completely lost the function they have already had in the past, namely the function of restructuring companies, special departments dealing with them, which differ in their function from those of credit departments. In banks where the country is an important co-owner, these are mainly two, but through supervisory boards, the Ministry of Finance will require appropriate adjustment to the business plans of these institutions, which will also require a significantly more active attitude on this issue. If this does not happen, it is obvious that the State will have to act by other means in that segment, as far as it can influence its ownership.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u302	Thank you very much. Mr. Stefan Tessel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u303	Thank you very much for your answer, Mr Minister, even for the written reply you sent today. The government has clearly seen the need to tackle the behaviour of banks in the financial and economic crisis. For example, Alpos, d.d., from Šentjur, which, as the first in July this year with the legal approval of the enforcement settlement, carried out a procedure under Article 199.a of the Financial Business Act in insolvency and forced termination proceedings and entered the ownership structure of six banks. However, it now appears that the company will quickly land in bankruptcy for the reasons set out above. In this way, more than 400 employees could be lost in the short run. The Kozyansky environment would be destroyed, where we know that the social aspect is already weak and this company is very important and gives bread to many in this area. The active role of the State is essential in this area and could have a very positive impact on the promotion of the economic activity of the Slovenian economy, which is in a significantly more difficult position because of the current relationship of the banking environment than its competition in international markets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u304	Thank you very much. Mr. Gaspari wishes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u305	I expected you to mention this company. In addition to the banks, there is another economic company that can obviously influence the fact that this company will needlessly land in bankruptcy. The Ministry of Economy in the past has no idea how active it has been in these matters. I hope that we will try not to find a solution in this period of time for a month of September, but also in another case, as a solution will have to be found, which will be appropriate not only for the banks, but also for someone else, in another case, it is the air carrier that is under way. So we are in a situation where the state does not have as many leverages as it seems that it could act, but if the banks continue to do so, it is easier to send the company to bankruptcy than to deal with its recovery, we can end up in a bad position for the banks, the Bank of Slovenia and the country. Well, I hope it goes well. But if it doesn't work out, we'll probably hear from you here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-19-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u306	Thank you very much. I hereby end the agenda item on questions and initiatives. I thank the Prime Minister and ministers for the answers given. Your proposals for a discussion on the answers will be voted on tomorrow as part of the agenda item. I hereby also adjourn the 31st meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. with a discussion on the proposal by the Prime Minister of the Government for the appointment of five ministers, to whom he has also appointed his confidant. Thank you all very much. Good night.
